ParlaMint-DK_20201106100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a derogation from the rules on fixed-term camping during the winter months). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expulsion of criminal foreigners after the first judgment). Karsten Hønge (SF) and Jette Gottlieb (EL): Request no. F 17 (In the light of the report of the Economic Wise Men and the reports of the three largest trade unions, will the Government give an account of the continued increase in the retirement age, including consideration of postponing the decision on the planned increase in the retirement age from 2035 until after the established Pension Commission has presented its analysis work on this?). Titles on the notified cases will appear in the Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100047	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Troels Ravn. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100119	Thank you for the floor. People's lives give the law fullness. So wisely it is written out here in the Vandrehallen at Christiansborg, and so wisely it is said by the painter Rasmus Larsen as a reminder to the politicians to always pass laws that are for the benefit of people and society. That is also the case today with this draft law, L 75, which is now being dealt with as a matter of urgency because of the continuing effects of the covid-19, so that we reopen the VAT and payroll tax credit system so that small and medium-sized enterprises which did not seek in the first instance in the spring get a second chance of an interest-free loan. As we are all aware and every day so painfully reminded, covid-19 continues to affect people and society and the economy in both Denmark and abroad. In this situation, we must do everything we can to ensure human health and, with financial aid packages, secure the economy of companies so that people do not lose their jobs. It is proposed that the loan scheme should reopen requests for the period from 17 November 2020 to 18 December 2020. In addition, it is proposed that the repayment date for all loans under the scheme be postponed from 1 April 2021 to 1 November 2021. In this context, it is also proposed that the period during which the cap on the tax account is temporarily suspended should also be postponed until 1 November 2021. I am sure that this proposal will make sense and contribute to making the famous difference between small and medium-sized enterprises and the workplace. The positive feedback we received from the companies in the spring testifies to this. At that time, SMEs applied for loans under the loan scheme for approx. 7 billion kr., and we therefore urgently process the proposal so that the money can come out to strengthen the company's liquidity. The proposal is proposed to enter into force as early as 17 November. It is a good proposal which the Social Democrats naturally support, as I should also like to welcome from the Enhedslisten and Radical Left rapporteur and say that they too do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100340	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100358	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is, after all, a bill that comes out of the debate that was about compensation packages in this round, and it touches on the part of the companies that we call liquidity. That is, foreign capital. It is a balance sheet posting, where you look at how to finance the business by borrowing money from others. It's the one part that's really important when you have a business, and that's why it's really good that we do this. Because there are many companies that have difficulty paying the bills. This is done by borrowing and obtaining VAT and tax credits. That's why it's good to see this extended. I shall not say the same thing again, as the previous rapporteur said, but just say that it is good that we are doing this because then our companies can pay the bills for a long time. What it also concerns is another issue that has not been resolved with this bill, and that is equity. So when you increase foreign capital, you reduce own funds, and that becomes a problem when you have to pay back these VAT and tax credits. Because does the company have enough equity to pay this back? Unfortunately, we have not solved that yet, and we know that in the Left, and that is why we are just taking the chance to say it on this occasion. We are, of course, in favour of this bill. That's good, but we just need to solve the other side too, so we hope we can talk about that when we don't get that far further. How do we solve this for companies? For then companies can also pay back their VAT and tax credits, and that is good for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100603	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100611	The background to this bill is, of course, an agreement that Dansk Folkeparti is not part of, but that is why the content of the bill can be good enough anyway. Now I can say that we are actually supporting it, although it is not part of the overall agreement. As described above, it is a question of increasing liquidity in typically small and medium-sized enterprises, which, like many others, are under pressure in these times. Back in the spring there was an agreement and a bill that could be applied for a refund of VAT in some form of loan scheme, and we actually supported that at the time and were included in an agreement on that. At the time there was a relatively short window where the money could be recovered, and an application has been made for approx. 7 billion kr. I'm gonna go into this loan scheme, but there's still a pretty big potential of 28 billion. kr. There we think it is also a good idea to give a new window where you can apply for this money back out. So the Danish People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100718	Thank you. SF supports this bill. We all agreed in the negotiations to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly under pressure because of the covid-19, and therefore we in the SF believe that it is sensible to extend the interest-free loan scheme and the postponement of the deadline for repayment of the loans. This is the right decision for Danish business and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100741	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100752	Conservatives support the bill. The deadline for VAT loans will expire very soon, on 17 November. The situation of companies has not improved. Some are dependent on VAT loans, and we would like to give them a lifeline. At the same time, we are also pushing the deadline for tax loans, even though their maturity is further away. We are concerned about the Danish companies, which have financial problems due to the coronavirus and government decisions. We are not impressed by the government's handling of the whole crisis. The government is always behind, even in this case. One might as well have put forward the bill in good time instead of going all the way to the end of VAT loans and now asking for urgent procedure. But, like so many times before, we are helping the government and accepting the urgent procedure, even though it is an injustice and there is no reason why the government has not tabled the bill in good time. We are not helping the government for the sake of the government. It is a greeting from Rasmus Jarlov, who is the tax rapporteur and we are now not impressed with the government's handling. Nor do we think that the government is reciprocated by the very great flexibility shown by the Folketing. However, we accept the urgent procedure because the adoption of this bill will be an important help for many companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100910	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100925	Thank you. I am the rapporteur today instead of Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen and will not really spend so much more time than saying that of course we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100949	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106100952	Thank you to the rapporteur. That brings the rapporteur's line to an end, and then it is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101001	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the very broad support for the bill here, which is, of course, a legislative proposal that comes from a very serious background. We are once again in a serious situation, both for Danish employees and for Danish jobs, and therefore I am pleased that we are now coming together with a broad majority again to take initiatives that can provide an easier everyday life for both Danish employees and Danish companies. We have done so before we did so in the spring, where we added approx. 165 billion kr. in addition, by postponing the payment of tax and VAT, and here too a loan scheme was set up for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they could borrow an amount equal to the VAT and payroll tax paid in the past free of interest. As Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned it was quite a large amount which was approved as a loan in the spring of the very early May to mid-June. Approx. 23,100 companies were granted interest-free loans for an amount of just under 7 billion. kr. That is a lot of money, and I had the pleasure of visiting a printery in Hvidovre, where they could tell that when it blew loose for the first time this spring, they were in an extremely difficult economic situation, and they were even very happy to get the help that you get here by getting your paid-up VAT as an interest-free loan for a year. Now, unfortunately, here we are again dealing with a new wave of corona virus, which has called for both the transfer of restrictions and new restrictions. When the restrictions are tightened, there is a need for the financial aid that must also be accompanied, and that is why I am pleased that a broad majority supports both when it comes to this initiative but also when it comes to extending the aid packages that we have also negotiated. The initiative we are talking about here is intended to give effect to the part of the agreement which concerns the reopening of the credit system for VAT and the payroll tax. As I have said, this provides companies with additional liquidity, by allowing already paid VAT and payroll tax to be paid out as an interest-free loan. At the same time, the repayment date for all loans under the scheme shall be postponed until 1 November 2021 and the temporary suspension of the cap on the tax account shall also be postponed accordingly. In concrete terms, the Government proposes that the VAT and salary-sum tax loan scheme should be reopened between 17 November and 18 December 2020. Those companies that have not already made use of the scheme will then be able to apply for a loan corresponding to the VAT indicated in March, or corresponding to the declaration of the wage payment fee or, as also stated, method 4, from the first quarter of 2020, and a quarter of the profit for the income year 2019. At the same time, the repayment date will be postponed, as I have said, for all loans from 1 April 2021 to 1 November 2021. In addition, it is proposed that the loan scheme should be reopened unchanged, which is why certain companies will, of course, be cut off from the scheme in order to safeguard the system against losses and fraud. The reopening of the loan scheme will then allow for 28 billion. kr. Increased cash flow to businesses. What does that mean? For example, it was of great importance to the printery in Hvidovre that I visited before the summer holidays. Another example could be a medium-sized enterprise with a turnover of 40 million. kr., which has typically paid up 1.5 million. kr. VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/VAT/ quarter. The company will thus be able to obtain an interest-free loan of 1.5 million. kr. paid out and thereby strengthen their liquidity correspondingly for up to 18 months. In addition, it is proposed that the period during which the tax account ceiling is suspended be extended accordingly, i.e. from 1 April 2021 to 1 November 2021. The suspension allows for a flexible repayment of the loans so that companies wishing to repay the loan early can also do so. I am incredibly pleased that here in the Folketing we are able to come together in as broad a majority behind these very crucial agreements as is the case. We are in a very serious situation, both for the Danish economy, for Danish employees and for the Danish business community, and I am glad that we are able, as relatively easily as this has been expressed here, to come together on such crucial decisions, which are so directly important for many companies, for many employees on factory floors, printing floors and in other of the companies we have most of in Denmark, namely small and large medium-sized enterprises, which are given the opportunity to take an interest-free loan and are thus given a large and strong helping hand from all of us. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101557	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101615	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101633	Thank you. The bill here is of a very technical nature, but it is about bringing the law on CO2 With the bill, the rules on complaints are amended, among other things. in the rare cases where Denmark may ask the Commission to prohibit an air carrier from operating in Denmark if it does not comply with the quota rules. The bill also includes proposals to repeal the rules allowing Danish authorities to approve climate credits under the Kyoto Protocol. It is based on the fact that the EU's quota directive removes the possibility for quota companies to use UN credits in the target achievement for 2021, and that there is currently no UN legal basis for approving new Kyoto credit projects after 2020. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101729	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101741	Thank you. In the Left, we take a positive view of the proposal, recognizing, of course, that an ongoing update of the Danish CO2 In this way we are helping to ensure the green transition, and that is why we want to support the proposal. The only small remark I have today is that in the hearings there is a call for the Danish Energy Agency to clean up the many administrative tasks imposed on the companies involved in the quota system, and that is one of the things I will try to ask a little about in the committee procedure, in relation to whether we could perhaps in some way make it a little bit simpler to manage. But otherwise I have no comments and we look forward to further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101829	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106101842	Thank you very much. As our rapporteur is today prevented from being here, I have had the pleasure of reading the speech. Normally we in the Danish People's Party do not hear a kind word about the European Union, but we are basically in favour of an internal market. We are in favour of Danish companies and citizens both buying and selling across borders, and we are also in favour of a good climate and environment. That is why it makes good sense that we in the European Union have created a CO2 It is obviously not good that we in Denmark have a strict climate policy if the rest of the European Union just freely emits CO2 It is, after all, the other countries' companies that we compete with. That is why there must also be a level playing field. This ensures the EU's quota trading system, among other things. With this proposal, the EU's quota trading system is being updated and improved in a number of areas. We in the Danish People's Party can therefore support this. It is a good thing that there are rules on complaints which need to be integrated into the existing system of complaints. It is also good that the legal certainty of companies is safeguarded by the possibility of bringing decisions on the determination of the level of activity before the courts. Basically, the proposed linguistic simplifications, the repeal of obsolete regulations and the individual adjustments are also good for clarifying obligations or enforcement possibilities in the whole area of the quota law. The Danish People's Party can back this up, and we therefore look forward to going deeper into the matter in the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102034	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Ruben Kidde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102043	Thank you. After all, this bill updates the Danish CO2 I note that there has been no critical consultation response of particular importance, and that, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, is something that we can take in committee. However, the draft law is primarily of a technical nature and it is a legislative proposal that we in the Radical Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102118	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102125	Thank you. The bill here reflects the changes in the EU's quota trading directive, so we get updated on the Danish CO 2 A continuous update of the Danish quota legislation is of course crucial to the continued functioning of the quota trading system as intended and as efficient as possible, and therefore SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102151	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102201	We note that this draft law, as it says, is primarily of a technical nature, and that is certainly true when there is no really critical consultation response. So the big deal about whether the quota system as a whole should be different is perhaps not now that we can take, but I really think there is reason to look at it. There are some who have been given some free CO2 So, we are facing a major transition, where we are going to be a CO2 2 2 2 So I really think that there is a task in not just implementing what the EU comes with, but considering whether we in Denmark can have some changed rules that can do better. And it might actually be nice to have it discussed, given that we have so many climate action plans that we have to go through in a short time and that there may be opportunities here to influence development, so that changed rules on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102328	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102334	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. And I'll be very brief, because I'm a substitute today for Mona Juul. Of course, the market-based quota trading system needs to be continuously updated so that it can continue to be effective. The draft law also contains some sensible consequences, updates and changes that we support, among others. two complaint rules to be linked to the current complaint system and changes to the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The draft law is primarily of a technical nature and we have noted that there has been no criticism of it in the hearing. Conservatives therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102418	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102424	Thank you. The draft law contains provisions implementing Directive 2003/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This is therefore a technical implementation which, in the light of the few consultations, does not give new citizens the opportunity to comment, and we can therefore support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102444	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102450	Thank you. We are in the Liberal Alliance very big supporters of CO2 If you had a system worldwide that you could get to work, then it was actually the very best solution for reducing CO2 emissions So it is only technology that is at stake in relation to CO2 The system itself is the best possible one can imagine. We support this technical adjustment of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102527	Thank you to the rapporteur. All the rapporteurs have taken the floor and I have the pleasure of giving the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102539	Thank you for that and let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. The EU's quota trading system enters a new phase at the turn of the year. This is the phase we call the fourth trading period. That means fewer CO2 That's good progress. Those restrictions result from a directive amendment in 2018. The rules have already been implemented in Danish law via CO2 Now we update CO2 At the same time, the law will reflect significant changes in other international climate law, in particular the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. It is a relatively technical draft law, but it helps to ensure that a cornerstone of Danish and European climate policy, namely the quota system, works effectively and as intended. The bill contains three main points. Firstly, there are changes as a consequence of the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol at the turn of the year. This includes, among other things: the repeal of rules allowing Danish authority approval of UN climate credit projects, the so-called CDM projects. Under the Kyoto Protocol, no decision has been taken on what will happen to the climate credit area after 2020. However, the EU provides a clear direction that it should not be possible to generate new credits or projects under the Kyoto Protocol after 2020. At the same time, there is still disagreement as to the shape of trade in climate credits under the Paris Agreement. The draft law therefore proposes that we await clarification in the area of UN climate credit. When that clarification comes, it will of course give rise to consideration of new rules in the future. Secondly, the draft law amends a specific right of appeal for airlines. This applies to the very rare situations in which Denmark must ask the European Commission to ban the operation of an air carrier if it refuses to comply with the rules. The changes will bring the right of appeal closer to EU rules, and this will make Denmark better able to enforce the quota rules than is the case today. The legal certainty of companies is fully safeguarded by the rules resulting from Union law. Thirdly, the draft law takes account of the fact that the Danish Energy Agency will have to make a new type of decision on the level of operation of a company from 2021 on, e.g. the production measured in tonnes. The draft law means that this new type of decision will not be subject to appeal to the Energy Complaints Board. This practice already applies in comparable situations where a company does not report their emissions correctly and where the Danish Energy Agency has to decide on it. In addition, linguistic simplifications, the repeal of obsolete provisions and adjustments are proposed in order to clarify obligations or enforcement possibilities in the area of the quota law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102910	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106102916	I can hear from the Minister that there may be a time when there will be an opportunity to consider new rules, and I really think that is very relevant, because I see a little dilemma in the fact that there are some who are given free CO2 That is why they are in a particular competitive situation purely in economic terms, and I would not rule that out, but it may also be a sleeping pillow that some free CO2 is being allocated. Now there are not so many business names in this bill, but it could be, for example. Isn't it an advantage to push such companies a little to develop other products, or to look critically at what situation we have gathered in the building? Are we in a situation where we support cement production in an unreasonable way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103019	What I referred to in relation to possibly getting back to the rules was actually the concrete part about the UN not yet deciding what to do with climate credits. In other words, as long as that decision has not been taken, despite the fact that we in Denmark and the European side are ready in our reports, we will not be able to adapt the law to it, but of course we will come back to that. The other more political remarks by Søren Egge Rasmussen seem to me to be relevant to discuss. This is not so much in relation to this proposal, but perhaps in the future, because hopefully and probably a revision of the quota trading directive is under way on the part of the European Union. This needs to be strengthened, and probably an extension of the scope as well. Basically, however, I would like to say that quite a lot of improvements have been made in recent years. The rapporteur now mentions free quotas. There have been fewer of them. It is just to give one example, which certainly underpins the transformation that I think we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103118	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103120	In other words, when the United Nations may come to know more about the future, we will return to this issue. But I think that the example of construction is relevant. What kind of a CO2 and then you have to compare some wood elements with some concrete elements, and the concrete elements have so free CO2 It doesn't have the producer of wood elements. So I think there is something here that is good reason to look at more carefully. So I want to know if the Minister can see any prospects in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103149	It is just to emphasise that what I think we will come back to in relation to the legislative proposal we are talking about today is climate credit. It is because the COP process in the United Nations has not yet succeeded in finding solutions to ensure what is called climate integrity in UN languages. not only happens the transfer of credits. Fortunately, the European Union, which is, after all, negotiating on behalf of Denmark in this matter, is quite clear and we continue to follow that path. What else might come in relation to the revision of the quota trading directive in the EU will be running in a different path. Of course, it must also be implemented in Danish legislation, but there we will, of course, have discussions here in the Folketing according to the normal process of how a government takes office.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103243	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103259	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Paulin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103314	Thank you. The purpose of L 67 is to amend the electricity supply law as part of the implementation of the new electricity market directive. It is a draft law which contains many different elements, but which all in all aims to strengthen the green transition through a modern electricity market. The bill acts among other things. on citizens' energy communities, where citizens are given the opportunity to come together, for example. the production of renewable energy and engage in dialogue with the grid companies. This construction can help create a flexibility in the electricity grid, which we know is one of the major challenges of the fluctuating energy system of the future. In addition, network operators will be required to present development plans every two years, which will help to make visible where there may be flexibility challenges and what investment needs are. In a future where we know we need a significant expansion of our electricity infrastructure, it is a good tool that can help market players to offer flexibility services and make the green transition more efficient. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103415	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is to come to the floor. It's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103427	Thank you for the floor. What we have to do today, after all, is deal with the legislative proposal, as has been mentioned previously, which implements the electricity market directive. It must be implemented in Danish law by 1 January 2021 at the latest, so it will be in the near future. The aim of the directive is to further develop the electricity market model and create a consumer-driven green switch-over, and what is crucial here is that there should be free and equal access for those who supply electricity into a system where there are some who drive the electricity grid, and it should then be those who, if I may say so, provide the motorway and the sideways to provide power. Then there must be some who can deliver the power in, and we in the Left think that is really, really good. Because in the Left we are pleased that something is being market-driven and a market-driven green transition we believe is the most important and best tool in this context. So in the Left we can say that we find it difficult to oppose this as liberals, and we are very pleased that it seems that we can introduce it in a good way. It is quite technical; there are quite a lot of changes, and what is happening is either proposing concrete amendments to the law or giving authority to issue a number of notices. These are significant changes, and I would just like to mention a few of them. Rules will be laid down for active customers, citizens' energy communities and what we call aggregations. Distribution undertakings shall act as neutral market intermediaries when purchasing electricity to cover network losses using transparent non-discriminatory market-based methods. It sounds kind of technical, but when you send power through wires, it is the case that some of the power disappears, and the electricity that disappears, the customers have to help pay, and we have to do so according to a market model where the network company cannot make a little extra profit by cheating on the price of it. Then there must be a ban on transmission companies, energy networks and distribution companies having to own, operate and manage or develop energy storage facilities, which means that it will also be the market that will take care of it. Then it is important that the distribution companies are actually able to transport the larger quantities of electricity that will be in the transition • the green switch • we are facing. So every two years they have to publish expansion plans so that those who look at it can see that it is actually possible to transport the amount of power we need. Then there is something about the distribution companies actually having to have human resources, which means that they themselves need to have know-how about how to run this so that they do not get into the pockets of anyone else. In the Left, we support the proposal, but we do have a few individual tariffs in this model is one of the things we can be a little nervous about. There may well be electricity generating companies that would like to make their own pipeline to a large factory or the like. We do not normally think that would be appropriate. We believe that the public network should be what offers the transmission of electricity, also for contracts between a provider and a customer, but the prerequisite is, of course, that the tariffs are reasonable, and so we would like to encourage the Minister to look at a model in which we ensure that the tariffs that actually come on the web become tariffs that in the goose-eyes can compete with the making of an own wire. There must, of course, be a socio-economic assessment of it too. We hope that the Minister will look into that. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103825	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106103842	Thank you. With this bill, we are changing a number of elements of the Electricity Act as we introduce the EU directive on the internal market for electricity into Danish law. A stable electricity supply is essential for a modern society like the Danish one. Power outages are a rarity in Denmark. The Danes and companies get power when they turn on the outlet. This must also be the case in the future, and we have a duty to ensure that. The Danish People's Party therefore welcomes the government's bill as it contains a number of measures that can both engage consumers in the green transition and can help push for us to use the power more flexibly so that we make better use of the power grid. This is happening, among other things. by implementing the provisions of the Directive on citizens' energy communities and aggregations. With the introduction of citizens' energy communities, citizens can concentrate on producing and sharing green energy. In addition, the bill provides access to the electricity market for so-called aggregateers, which will collect more customers' electricity consumption and trade with them in the electricity market. This will help to reduce the need for investment in the electricity grid. That's good. It is also good that the draft law states that we must safeguard our common electricity grids. It is good that citizens' energy communities are not given the opportunity to establish and own parallel electricity networks. We should not get into a situation where we dig up towns or rural areas because a few want to own their own electricity grids to avoid co-financing the common grid. We have a strong and consumer-owned power grid. That's what we need, and that's what the bill's gonna do. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the bill overall. However, it is somewhat surprising that the government is not using this bill more to ensure that the electricity grid is stable in the future and can handle the large amounts of power we need in the future. Some reports, including: from the government's own climate partnership for energy and supply, it suggests that the Danish electricity consumption will double until 2030 because electricity takes over from fossil fuels in our heat production and in industry. In the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry of June this year, we agreed that the government has the task of presenting initiatives that support the continued development of the electricity infrastructure. The government still has to deliver on that. When you listen to the Danish electricity grid companies, they are nervous that they cannot make the necessary investments in the electricity grid, because the financial framework that we in the Danish Parliament have decided is based on the electricity consumption of the past instead of the electricity consumption of the future. So in the future, we can easily find ourselves in a situation where the power grid can't do the job unless the government gets a look at this area soon. After all, we need the green current for more in the future. Last week we launched large grant pools where the Danes can get subsidies to install an electric heat pump. So we have many residential areas where all houses are heated with electricity rather than with oil and natural gas. And we are in the process of negotiating vehicle taxes. It will also lead to more electric cars on the roads; cars must be charged with electricity. All this puts pressure on our power grid. The Danes must therefore be able to count on security of supply in Denmark to remain world-class. The draft law does not contribute enough to this. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party expect the government to follow up with several initiatives, as we have agreed in the climate agreement. However, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal, as it nevertheless contains sensible measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104257	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Ruben Kidde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104308	Thank you. After all, this bill has to amend the Danish law on electricity supply so that it complies with the EU electricity market directive, that is, the internal market for electricity. This is happening, among other things. by implementing the provisions of the Directive on citizens' energy communities and aggregations. There will then be some national, i.e. some Danish tightening ups, which will ensure more waterproof shutters between the electricity dealers, i.e. the commercial players, on the one hand, and the electricity grid companies, which are monopolies, on the other. In general, we in the Radical Left believe that this is a fine proposal that we can support. However, there are some minor things that we can take in committee, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And the second and most important point of attention for me to flag here at first reading is that there is a little slippery track somewhere, namely that the bill empowers the Supply Authority, that is, an independent supervision, to develop a number of powers in the area where there would normally be the Energy Agency, which is under political control. Here I think we should consider carefully whether this does not involve a possible loss of control for the Folketing, even if it is a little bit of a nerd, technical thing that is at stake. But I look forward to doing so in committee. Overall, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104444	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's Mrs. Signe Munk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104451	Thank you. With this bill, we ensure the implementation of the electricity market directive in Danish law, so that we develop our electricity market model and create more opportunities for citizens to engage in the green transition, where money is not only for the sake of making a contribution to the green transition. After all, we have set ourselves a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030, and therefore this objective also calls for us to be ambitious all the time around our electricity market, and in particular how we get more creative and innovative electricity products, we get better and more use of the electricity produced, and at the same time we make sure that it is the smartest and cheapest green conversion we push on the way. The draft law allows citizens to unite in citizens' energy communities on electricity generation and on sharing production within the Community, but in other words through the collective network, so that they can contribute with flexibility and to relieve the electricity grid, so that there may be some network investments that the electricity grid companies can postpone or do not need to make. Thus, citizens' energy communities can be positive for the economy and, at the same time, just give more citizens a concrete task in the green transition. The draft law also establishes a fundamental principle of Danish self-sufficiency, namely that electricity supply must continue to be operated on the basis of collective principles. This means that the citizens' energy communities cannot own, establish, buy or rent distribution networks, which have also been mentioned by several people. We agree with this in the SF because we believe it is best for society that we have a common electricity network rather than parallel or private electricity networks. So overall, we are in the SF positive towards the bill. However, there are two elements that we would like to ask about and that we will look at in the further legislative process. This is partly about section 47, which the radical rapporteur also mentioned, where the Supply Agency will have a role in establishing rules and duties for consumers and businesses, while also supervising them. It is a task to establish some rights that have otherwise been in the Danish Energy Agency. We think it is obvious that the Minister is at least explaining what the background is for taking this away from political control. The second is paragraph 73. 3 which deals with the geographical tariffs, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned up here. The draft law provides for the use of geographical tariffs only in exceptional cases, but when geographical tariffs can help to ensure that the flow is used where it is produced, I wonder why I was caught here. At the same time, however, it is also important for us to clarify what the consequence would be of changing the legislation so that geographical tariffs could, as a general rule, be made, and so we would like to hear what might be of any economic impact on households. I hope the Minister can clarify that too. Overall, we look forward to good discussions on the proposal and, overall, we also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104831	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106104841	After all, we are about to consume more electricity in the near future. This is among other things. to the electric cars, heat pumps and to the general transformation of society. After all, we should like to have some legislation to support the possibility of a sensible network expansion. We are faced with the idea that it should be a network development that is done in the best way, so we have an intelligent power grid where we can handle more and more renewable energy, and at the same time we must try to deal with it so that we can use our electricity wisely. So if it is to be the case that electric cars can be charged at the optimum times, we need a system that can accommodate it. With regard to the legislative proposal, I also believe that changes should be made in the parts dealing with flexible tariffs, because why not have something that can be geographically more differentiated, so it is the case that if local investment is made and more renewable energy is achieved, consumers in those areas can, for example, be able to do so. have any lower tariffs? Then there are also some things that relate to how network operators should cover their network losses. I think it is important to clarify if the network operators are to organise such a call for tenders, if they are to be invited to tender, for example. may stress that it is green power that you have to buy for your net loss. I think this is essential, so that it is not just a matter of cheapest possible, but also in the best way possible. Then there's the thing about these bourgeois energy communities. It gets a little messy when there is another piece of legislation where you have to deal with some RES communities, which can then also contain something with heat, while in the bourgeois energy communities it is all about electricity. I think it would have been an advantage if the two implementations of some legislation had come at the same time, so that we could, like, see the possibilities in one thing and the other. It's incredibly nice in the written submission of this bill. It states: "The implementation of the electricity market directive is aimed at further developing the electricity market model and creating a consumer-driven green transition. This is happening, among other things. by implementing the provisions of the Directive relating to citizens' energy This is very positive. If you look into some of these many consultation responses, then there are some who are not satisfied with what has been sent in consultation. Such rather technical legislation is difficult, and it is therefore necessary to clarify through the committee procedure whether these citizens' energy communities are something that housing associations can use to put solar cells on the rooftops. It's something that's been in demand out there. Is this something as it is that the citizens of a village can go together to make a solar-low and use the roof of the local sports hall for a citizens' energy community? It's kind of hard to see from this. Sometimes some things are adopted in here that look reasonable, but then there is some coinage that makes it impossible. Among other things, it has. In this respect, it should be noted that the Commission's assessment of the effects of the dumped imports on the Union industry was based on the fact that the Union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force during the period considered. So I'd really like that to be exorcised. If you look at the trends in the renewable energy expansion, we've ended up where it's very large wind turbine projects, while those windmill lows, who made a pioneering effort in the morning of time, have very bad conditions to be with the big plants that lie. If you look at the solar expansion, it's a little too the landowners' regime. I am not outraged by the fact that solar cells are put up on areas where grain is otherwise grown because solar cells are more efficient than grain production. But we see there is local resistance to some of those plants, and I think it would be an advantage to have a wider ownership group than one farmer. There it might be interesting to see if what is here is something that can be used locally, that we get some of those big solar installations that are owned by the local population. Is this bill something to promote this? I do not think I can read that clearly, but it may be that we can clarify it in committee. Then I am also where I do not think we should have double electricity grids in Denmark. Maybe it's because I'm burdened with 15 years on the board of a network company. But I don't think it's smart to have more wiring. I've also seen traveling abroad that it's not everywhere that those wiring networks are set up in the right way. There we actually have a pretty good solution in Denmark, where a lot of our electricity grids have been dug down and where there is a universal service for network companies to supply power to everyone. Can you imagine that there could be some new urban growth areas where you did something else? You can, but I really think that ownership of the network is so basic that in some form it should be in the hands of the community, for example. in a co-owned energy company.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105356	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105406	Thank you. I am rapporteur instead of Egil Hulgaard today, so bear in mind that I cannot answer various specific questions. This draft law concerns the implementation of the EU electricity directive, and the draft law and directive are very comprehensive and represent the biggest change in Denmark's and the EU's electricity market in 20 years. It is therefore problematic to note that changes need to be made in a very, very short time. Not only does the legislation change significantly, but large parts of the implementation are not in place, and with part of the bill a number of authorisations are granted to the Ministry and the Supply Authority. We note that the Ministry has not been allowed to postpone the implementation of the directive, and we will follow that up. The current approach to implementation seems premature. The directive and the Danish implementation lead to a more flexible electricity market, a development that we can only welcome. The directive implements mechanisms that seek to ensure that Denmark's exports of wind current do not meet the capacity constraints that we have experienced in the past. That part alone has a value of half a billion dollars for Denmark. As I said, the draft law is extremely comprehensive and technically complex, and we will therefore look forward to the future work of the committee. The Conservative People's Party recognises the need for the implementation of the EU electricity directive, but is also concerned about the rapid and very significant changes sought and the extended powers requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105541	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105550	Thank you. New citizens welcome the move towards modernising the electricity market. Among other things: As mentioned in the bill, increased digitalisation can allow more flexible use of electricity, and in addition, research into and development of new innovative electricity products for customers can well grow in the Danish business community. The consultation responses to this bill have been many and very detailed. There are many proposals and input from the stakeholders concerned, so we are looking forward to the further discussion in committee. As a starting point, we welcome the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105633	Thank you. The bill here is intended to implement the EU electricity market directive into Danish law, and we usually vote for the implementation of EU legislation in Denmark if the EU remains within the broad principles of subsidiarity and if there is nothing in the bill that we believe is directly harmful to Danish society. In this bill we haven't found anything that is really bad, and the consultation answers don't reveal that this is supposed to be really bad. That is why we are following our principle of voting in favour of the implementation of EU directives in Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105714	Thank you to the rapporteur. This gives the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106105720	Thank you. Let me start by thanking you for the general support and saying that the few issues that have been raised here, for example. what is about the role of the Supply Agency versus the role of the Danish Energy Agency, we would like to try to deepen for you so that you can go further into that discussion in connection with the committee work. In other words, from my point of view, it is most important to ensure that the formal competence lies in the place where the professional competence also lies. That is why the proposal has been drafted as it stands. But, of course, we are happy to elaborate on this and discuss it. Similarly, we will also look at Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's concerns about citizens' energy communities in the treatment. It is clear that it is very much the case that what is intended and intended is also what is actually being published. So we'll take a look at that. Finally, with regard to the major issues raised, the question of tariffs, as highlighted by both the Left and the Radical Left, needs to be clarified. The draft law contains a number of amendments to the law on electricity supply with a view to implementing the EU electricity market directive. The implementation of the electricity market directive aims to further develop the electricity market model and create a better framework for the green transition. It is a large, complex and technical legislative proposal, so I will confine myself to highlighting some of the most central elements. First of all, provisions on citizens' energy communities and collectors are being implemented. With the introduction of citizens' energy associations, citizens can gather together to produce and share, among other things, the production and distribution of energy. Green energy within communities. The draft law creates market access for actors such as aggregates, such as: can collect more customers' consumption and trade with it as flexibility in the grid on the electricity market. Among other things, this can be done. also contribute to reducing the need for investment in the electricity grid, thereby making the green conversion cheaper. Secondly, new requirements are being implemented for network operators to publish network development plans and use flexibility services as a cost-effective alternative to network investment. It must ensure that the existing electricity network is better used than it is today. Thirdly, in addition to the directive, some adjustments are made concerning technical and financial capacity for electricity generation appropriations, accounting for the separation of costs of the energy saving scheme, alignment of the expiry date of the network appropriations and alignment of the law in order to avoid double regulation in relation to the electricity market regulation. Finally, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110023	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110027	Thank you. It is good that the Minister is open to discussing what has been turned here as problematic things. And I'm thinking of these bourgeois energy communities and solar power expansion. I recently heard a clip on the radio, where Brian Vad Mathiesen pointed out that these large roof surfaces in Denmark, i.e. the really large roof surfaces, could actually accommodate the solar roofing we should be doing and which is currently very much happening on some farmland, but there is a possibility that we could put some solar cells on those boring flat roofs without bothering anyone. And it might well be something that was targeted at the fact that it could be citizens' energy communities, which, what to say, went on to say that the roofs were exploited without it bothering anyone, and where you might then have an expansion where there is a part of the consumption, instead of it being far out in the countryside, you make these solar parks. Can the Minister see any advantages in having this knitted together in a way so that it can become a reality that large roof surfaces are something that will hold solar cells?
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110133	We would very much like to look at this first to clarify what is possible with the proposal as it is drafted here, but of course also what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen had to have concrete suggestions. However, I would like to say that we must be careful, after all, that we do not simplify it a little, because I do not think it is either or. I agree that there is probably quite a lot of potential in exploiting the possibilities of placing solar cells on roofs around, but there are certainly still opportunities in the countryside. And that's one of them. One of the reasons why we have decided jointly in the conciliation circle that we should increase the compensation that we give to neighbours out there because we know that there will be more of these facilities. It's a really good idea to help the green transition, but it can also cause some discomfort for those who live close by. And we are actually sitting in the circle right now discussing how we are to get the amount of compensation paid out in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110235	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110237	That's right. There may also be something here about legislation like this that says that there is another piece of legislation that needs to be adjusted. I have heard that there are some tax conditions for solar installations on agricultural land that should be changed and, if this is changed, more solar installations could be set up. So I think that we should look at the legislation that can curb the reality of these citizen-driven energy communities, so that we can sort out something else: is there any other tax legislation that we should also change in order for citizens' energy communities to become more reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110312	Yes, I agree that this kind of discussion, although it may be related to this bill, is probably something we need to look at separately. In general, of course, we are constantly concerned about creating the right incentives and, of course, we must also look at the tax situation there. And that, by its very nature, is also something I do with my good colleague, the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110337	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110353	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110414	Thank you for the floor. Social democracy backs the government's proposals. For many years there has been a lack of clergy in the church. This is a particular problem, but it is not just a problem in rural areas. This bill will address the problem. It opens up another way to the priesthood, and it allows people to take their experiences from other works into the priesthood. In the Social Democratic Party, we emphasize the many different tasks of the priesthood, a significant part of which is citizen-friendly in the local community, and this is precisely the perspective of the bill. At the same time, a theological element of the new training is maintained. Overall, we expect the proposal to remedy the obvious lack of clergymen and, on the part of the Social Democrats, we strongly recommend that the proposal be adopted, just as we and I as rapporteur look forward to the Committee on Churches dealing with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110549	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110600	Thank you for the floor. Priests mean a lot in many communities, and for many Danes the priest is needed at major life events. It can be a happy day for a child to be baptized, or the last parting at the funeral, where we say goodbye to someone who has been close to us. For many Danes, the church is an important part of everyday life, where you find peace and cohesion, but in many parishes you find it difficult to recruit priests. Especially in parishes far from Copenhagen it can be difficult to get a new priest when the old priest retires. It is probably very natural that many people seek positions close to where they have lived for many years, made friends and maybe made family, but this is a problem for the many people who do not have a priest. So lack of priests is a major problem for society. The shortage of priests is not a new problem. When the Left was in government, Mr. Bertel Haarder, a committee of priests who had to find possible solutions. Some of the proposals we made immediately, but when we were in government, there was no reason why we in the Left are pleased that the Social Democrats have changed their attitude to education and are now putting forward the proposal themselves. Today one can be allowed to become a priest without theology education if one gets a permission from the bishop in the rigid where one lives, but there are no uniform rules for it. With the new training opportunities it becomes clear when you are qualified to take the training and there is a uniform level of training. We think that is a good thing. With this opportunity for further training for the priest, we must not, of course, set up a system that is the main road. We would like the government to ease the dimension of theology education. There are many who are rejected each year in the theology study because of the limitation in admission. In times when we lack priests, it's strange that you don't increase the dimension. At the same time, we are also interested in seeing whether it is possible to ensure better opportunities for priests to remain in office for several years, if both priest and congregational council so desire. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110816	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106110828	Thank you. In the perfect world, it would be the most obvious thing that people were queued up to get a job where they can spread the Christian message, where they can inspire people in the community by giving them a gathering place every Sunday, where like-minded people cultivate their faith and walk away with hope and desire to have become a better human being and a better fellow human being. Imagine if you could have a job like that where you were just a huge inspiration to a lot of people. What if you could stand and baptize the little child who has just entered this world and who has his whole life ahead of him? Imagine if you could help future confirmations, many of whom today in their teenage life feel rootless, many of whom today live a shallow life about who looks best and who appears best on social media and who appears the most perfect. What if you could help the young people to find a foothold not only in faith in God, but especially Think if you could unite two people who love each other very much in marriage. What if you could help those people who are about to die by sitting with them and having a talk with them about which psalms are to be sung at their funerals and why they have just chosen the psalms and why it has a special meaning for them in their lives, and at the same time give them a peace with that they are soon gently and lovingly taken up to God. Imagine having a job where you touch so many lives, helping people to find hope, helping people to find peace, helping people to live in love, a job where you are there at all the highlights of life: at the start of life, at the life and walking of youth, by union in love and all that sometimes, where you just play an important role for your parishioners. Wow! It just sounds like a great job, it sounds kind of like a dream job. Then why aren't people waiting in line to get it? Yes, first of all, becoming a priest is something that many people often find out a little later in life when they have a little more experience of life; that is not necessarily what you think about when you go to high school. And considering how much you work, even when everyone else is free, the pay and opportunities for wage increases throughout your career are, to put it mildly, not good. A 6-year education for a salary that doesn't match the huge job you do, I understand that people aren't lining up for. In the near future, a number of priests retire and there are fewer seeking the job. We must find a solution to this. An alternative way to the usual theology education is an opportunity, and we in the Danish People's Party are open to this as long as it is a requirement in the theological further education that one must be able to read and understand the New Testament in the original language Greek. We can also combine it with looking at the salaries of the priests and the possibility of wage increases, and there are several parameters that we can draw on, but let us with this bill set the process in motion so that hopefully in the near future we can get more talented priests to enrich our parishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111234	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111253	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today, L 25, is a draft law which has been quite a number of years in the process. The members of the Committee on Churches have discussed this very much and we have disagreed on many things during that period. So now we have agreed in committee on this proposal, and it has been a very good process, which I can recommend in other contexts, so that we take time in preparation before a legislative proposal is put forward. We have all given ourselves a little, and I think it has been very successful, and I look forward to it. The problem is, of course, as has been mentioned, that we have a shortage of priests, and that is no wonder, because we have a great many kinds of priests, that is, student priests, street priests, prison priests, etc. There are many functions that a priest can take on in the environment that one chooses to enter as a priest. But we must also have priests in the churches, and that is where we have the lack at present. It is important that we have found these solutions. What applies to me and the way I have given myself here is that to people who want to be a priest, but who are something different in advance and who have a different education from a priest's education, they give a supplementary education that gives them some of the elements that are in the right priest's education, among other things. that with the foreign languages, which allows you to interpret the New Testament because you know the language in which the New Testament is written. This means that you can interpret it with the eyes of a new age. I think this is an extremely important element, and that is why it has been one of the things that has led the Radical Left to follow the Minister's proposals here. With those words, I wish it a very good way through the legislative process and hope it will benefit all of us in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111506	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111522	Thank you. This bill has been in the toolbox for some time, and there has been talk of the pre-stemangle for years. One of the bishops describes the current situation clearly in the hearing answer: • Thus it is not a question of having qualified candidates to choose from, but to have one candidate at all. This is true in rural areas. We think it is crucial that there is a local priest around the Danish villages and towns who knows what is moving in that congregation. Many people have a special and special bond with the priest, and that is not without reason. For many Danes, the priest is the person who follows one in life's most landmark events from the baptism of the niece, the son's confirmation, one's own wedding and to grandmother's funeral. For SF, therefore, it makes sense to increase the number of potential candidates for vacant priesthoods by looking more closely at the applicant class. In other words, we welcome the fact that other applicants with a second degree at the candidate level can apply for priesthoods in the public church if they pass a theological education course. We are simply solving the recruitment problem of the priesthood by increasing the supply of potential candidates due to an increasing demand as more present priests are expected to retire and the number of newly trained theology candidates cannot meet the needs. However, there is a "men" and there may be more "we" today only the part relating to § 1a. There is also a small extension of section 2, but in SF we would like to see a slightly wider extension of that part, possibly a future, which can also be economically sustainable for some of the people that we can see can be qualified to be part of the priesthood in the future. It may be fine and good with a university degree, but there are also some who over a long period of years have had their daily work in the church or a lot of work in the church or have some other prerequisites that qualify them for a priesthood. It can, for example, be done. be some of the skilled church and cultural workers who have long been very close to the church's daily activities and the congregation. With the right professional continuing training course, we see no problem in the fact that those people will also be able to carry out the priesthood in full. This is also one of the points raised by several bishops in the hearing answer, precisely that an extension of section 2 is appropriate. We are also surprised that another group of young people cannot chase the priesthood rhyme now that they actually want to. Again this year there was a record number of applicants in the theology programme at the Danish universities, while at the same time rejecting applicants with theology as their first priority. It seems a little paradoxical now that we just need priests. Therefore, we would also like to look at the dimensioning of theology. It is not right now, but we would like to look at that in the future, because, as the bishops and universities point out in the consultation answers, it may be one of the most long-term solutions in which we can ensure good recruitment for the presidency in the future. None of us is interested in educating people for unemployment, but we also need to be more in dialogue with both students and universities when, in the long term, we are going to discuss a new dimensioning model in this area and also other sustainable solutions to this challenge and developments in this area. With these comments, the SF supports the bill and we look forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As I do not see the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in Parliament, we move on to the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman as rapporteur. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106111926	Thank you. There is a shortage of priests in Denmark. The bishops all agree that priests are missing. The shortage of priests is a recognized problem in all the founders of the church. The purpose of this bill is to counteract the lack of qualified candidates for vacant priesthoods. The shortage of priests is felt throughout the country and especially in the outermost regions. This is not only a problem for the church but also for local communities, where the church is often among the few remaining gathering points. Opening up a section 3a solution will allow for the possibility of closing the gap, which gradually increases in scope and depth, as the church is given the opportunity to recruit priests who meet an academic standard, have theological knowledge and master preaching and soul sorrow. A temporary arrangement is being opened up which has a sunset clause of ten years, and that is a good thing. Because we are concerned that with the bill we are devaluing theology education by making it appear that anyone with an academic background can simply supplement it and thus be suitable for the priesthood. We recognise, of course, that as part of the proposal one will take as a starting point the individual applicant's prerequisites in the composition of training courses, but we may be concerned that one sends a signal that one does not necessarily have to be a trained theologian in order to be a priest. On the other hand, we also recognise that it must be possible to change profession in life, to change track, and that there are many talented people who are passionate about becoming a priest. Being a good priest is also about being able to create church halls, to bring the congregation councils to life, and to present and present the people's church. And frankly, you have to go through a sharp appointment committee out in the local church council, so I'm quite confident that the bill doesn't change the current arrangement, where the church council and the ministers call potential candidates for interview. But this bill does not do it alone, and we have a large number of questions and concerns. It is essential that the Master's degree in theology at one of the universities of the country continues to constitute the main route of employment in the public church. In addition to the introduction of § 3a, we propose the following measures, because further measures are needed to address priestly deficiency: We must maintain older priests. Priests today retire at the age of 65, and we therefore want to do more to hold priests in office. One could, for example, do so. do by exempting priests from confirmation training and administrative duties. And there is already a senior scheme that could well be applied in several parishes. I therefore appeal to the church minister to present initiatives to make it more attractive to maintain seniors in the ministry. In addition, we propose that the dimension of theology be lifted out of the unemployment dimensioning and into the training-specific dimensioning where the dimensioning can be determined by the Ministry of Church and the Ministry of Education and Research on the recommendation of the buyers. To give an example, I would like to mention that we have today organized a number of health education courses such as medical and nursing training, so that admission is regulated in the light of demand and shortage. We also want to claim the same for the education to become a priest. This will give universities an opportunity to adapt admissions to theology and later pastoral seminary, so that there is a smoother approach in the number of theology candidates and we will not be facing the same challenge again in 20 years' time as we are doing now. We must not just deal with a current problem; we must ensure that the church has the priests they need today and in the future. On the whole, we are in favour of the draft law, but we have a large number of issues which we would like to see addressed in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112332	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and I can therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112351	The Danish National Church is Denmark's church, and Christianity is the foundation of Danish society. And that is something that has to happen in small communities, where the church is often the backbone of the community and where priests are now lacking. Both the priest and the church themselves are often the foundation stone of the community. Therefore, it is also extremely important that we act. I'm from a small town myself. Our local priest biked out to us when it was someone from the families who lived in the city who needed a priest. He was the one who baptized both me and my sister, he married my parents, and he also confirmed both me and my sister. He meant something special to our family. It was always Lars that was called when it was, and then Lars cycling across the city in both rain and rough and helped and helped that there was this red thread, as I would call it, in my family, so our priest. This is so extremely important, and that is why we also support this bill, because that is how it should be possible to have it with your own priest in all parts of Denmark. We also have some questions for committee reading, and we look forward to helping this bill get through the committee very well, but we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112601	Thank you for the floor. I grew up in the priesthood, and therefore this is a subject of concern to me, and it is also a subject which, in all modesty, I think I have a certain knowledge of qua my upbringing as the son of a parish priest. My father was not a theologian. He was like the former bishop of Ribe Found Elisabeth Dons Christensen cand.mag. in history and knowledge of Christianity. Elisabeth Dons Christensen also became a cand theol, but my father graduated from Elisabeth Dons Christensen's uncle, Bishop Henrik Dons Christensen. So it is also a way into the priesthood, and it is not only my father who has followed that path into the priesthood. The former bishop of Aarhus Stift Kjeld Holm was a master in the history of ideas and took a supplementary exam, and the same applies to Henrik Gade Jensen, who works to everyone's satisfaction as parish priest at Lolland now, while I give this speech. So it is certainly not a requirement to be a good priest that you are a theologian. Why would it be? Too much of what you do as a priest has nothing to do with theological education. After all, it is the sorrow of souls that is not necessarily improved by being a theologian. It is the daily contact with the congregation, it is sometimes to mediate between people who have come into a situation where they need it, and that is to say the right words at funerals. This is incredibly important. Whether or not one gets better at it by being Hebrew and Greek, which is one of the great differences, I am rather doubtful about. Honestly, many times I have seen my father sit and write the sermon, and although one might well have the idea that the priests sit and read the Bible in Hebrew and Greek, when they prepare a sermon, it is not something I am used to from home, and I have not really seen it with other priests I know either. It is actually the Danish translation of the Bible that you normally have. So I think that much of the resistance from the theologians to admit non-theologians should be understood more by the concept of profession, by the concept of guarding access to a profession and by guarding the reputation and privileges of the profession. There are often such ideas that there are some who belong in the profession and some who have to be kept out. That is not an consideration that I think should be given particularly heavy weight. There are plenty of good examples of truly excellent priests who have not started as cand.theol. and therefore, of course, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112918	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The number of rapporteurs has thus been on the floor, and I give the floor to the Minister of Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106112936	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for the favourable reception of the draft law. As the rapporteur's remarks also show, we come from different places into this matter, and all the more so it is that we have managed to find each other, as Mrs Jelved also mentioned. I am incredibly grateful for this because, as has also been said, the background to the draft law is the lack of qualified candidates for vacant priesthoods that the church has experienced in recent years and continues to experience. The rapporteurs have put very good pictures, very good situations on it. I cannot do any better than that, so I shall confine myself to stating this quite specifically first. This is an additional access route. We all agree, as I see it, that the main road remains a theological master's examination, but we already have an existing opportunity for non-theologians to become a priest. It is maintained; it is important to be said. It means that even persons without a master's degree, exceptionally, when they show special qualities, can become priests if they are 35 years of age; thus they can be held as a priest in the Danish National Church. But this additional access route then allows people with a nontheological master's degree to seek the priestly path. It doesn't give a theological master's degree to get this continuing education course, but it maintains the high academic level, which characterizes the main road and thus the clergy of the church. It is also something that everyone around the National Church places emphasis on both church councils, priests and bishops, i.e. that it is precisely an in-service course, which is made up of theological core subjects at the universities. I have no doubt that, overall, this proposal will help to increase the number of qualified candidates for vacant priesthoods. And I look very much forward to the further discussion in committee, where I am sure we will also go into how this living word really gets out; how we strengthen it in the church. I welcome the broad support and look forward to answering any questions and following the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113216	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113236	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113255	Thank you for the floor. This draft law returns legally to an old practice whereby the National Audit Office is obliged to revise the funds. Without the law, there was the prospect that the practice of the Reichsaudit's revision of the funds would end next year. We do not regard such a situation as appropriate. The Social Democratic Party wishes to leave the audit with the National Audit Office and therefore considers the proposal for a legal requirement to be due diligence. The Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113350	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113359	Thank you for the floor. I am replacing Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, who could not be here today. The purpose of the bill is to ensure a legal basis for the Kingdom audit's continued revision of the capitals of churches and priests. In fact, the National Audit Office has been auditing the accounts for many years, but it seems that this has happened without the necessary legal basis. The bill will therefore ensure that the practice that is taking place today, when the Reichsaudit is responsible for the revision of the churches and priesthood funds, can continue to take place. The Left supports ensuring that the legal basis for practice is in place. We are surprised, however, that the National Audit Office is apparently not satisfied with the bill. That is why the question arises as to whether this bill has been drawn up following dialogue with the Reichsaudit. We therefore call on the government to ensure that the Reichsaudit is in agreement with the bill. But, overall, the Left supports the fact that prasis takes place on the basis of a clear legal basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113501	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113514	Thank you. With this bill, we move a text that has so far been in the observations of the law to the law itself. It is a question of the instruments of the Foundation, which are among other things the instruments of the Foundation. gets in at salesums from the parish halls. The revision obligation of these has been reflected in the observations of the law in the past, but this bill shifts it to the law itself, and we naturally support this in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113544	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we go to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113553	After all, this is a good and useful bill, which also gives the impression that, although we do not legislate properly in Denmark, we are still following some form of law. I think that is quite interesting, and therefore I should like to give a summary of what this is really about for educational reasons. For the Law on the National Church's finances gives legal advice to the National Audit Office on what needs to be revised, but this should include: also include the instruments of the Foundation, which are part of the economy of the people's church. But there has not been a legal basis for this, and it is quite a fun case. For it was only in the comments to the bill, which were discussed and adopted here in the Folketing many years ago, and since it is in the comments, it will not be included in the law when it is printed again, and that is a mistake. It's an oversight. It's a funny coincidence, I'd call it. So now it comes into the right law, and now the Reichsaudit can also revise the funds. After all, it is good that we are creating order in the law on the state church economy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113704	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113717	Thank you. SF also agrees that it would be positive to create a clear legal framework for the annual revision of the capitals of churches and priesthoods, i.e. the funds, also in the future, must be carried out by the National Audit Office, as has been the case in the past. It is fine that we get a line under it and have a clear framework for the legislation. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113744	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we move on to the next rapporteur. I see no one from the Enhedslisten, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113802	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to provide a clear legal basis for the Reichsaudit to continue and have to revise the capitals of the churches and priesthoods, and it is very good that we are lifting it over so that it becomes law. The rigorous and in-depth review of the National Audit Office is an essential element of our democracy, and transparency and thorough analysis of the state's consumption are alpha and omega to ensure that there remains a great deal of credibility and trust when we buy in here from the Danish Parliament on behalf of Denmark as a whole. There is therefore good reason why the National Audit Office can continue to carry out its annual audit and major studies also at the Church Ministry's Resort. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113846	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113900	I think the previous rapporteurs have so well sketched out what this bill is all about, so I will not tire the rapporteurs or the viewers with that, but just say that New Citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113914	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we are going to go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113923	Thank you for the floor. I was actually going to make a fire talk about this bill, and I've been looking into it, but I just couldn't think of the link to such a fire speech, so I just want to say that we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113940	Thank you for that, and we'll move on to the church minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106113948	Thank you very much. I do not think I can make a fire speech either, but I would like to thank you for the kindly reception of the bill. As has been pointed out, this creates an explicit legal framework whereby the annual audit of the funds will also be carried out in the future by the Reichsaudit. The National Audit Office itself has pointed out that there should be an explicit legal framework, and the National Audit Office also agrees that it is appropriate for there to be a one-tier revision of the Common Fund and the Founding Funds of the National Church. The rapporteur from the Left then asked how there can still be comments, and in this respect I can inform you that the Ministry of Churches has held a meeting with the National Audit Office at the beginning of October and that they agree with the way in which we respond to their comments. So I hope that it can also be included in the committee procedure, which I will of course follow and look forward to, and I will just finish by welcoming again the broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114044	There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114106	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114127	I am 64 years old, and that is no rule age unless you are in the Home Guard, because as it is right now, voluntary officers must resign from their position at the age of 60. I have to admit that my back may squeak a little at times, but otherwise I feel fresh and bold, and I actually think there are a lot of 60-year-olds who do, also in the Home Guard. Because even though age leaves its mark on the body, the brain is still sharp, and you are rich in experience. As you know, experience cannot be bought for money, and that is why it is a huge waste of resources if we do not maintain the skilled and experienced elderly in the Home Guard. This is further reinforced by the fact that the elderly in the Home Guard have sought management skills and specialist knowledge that it takes a long time to build. We must safeguard and appreciate that. The age criteria for voluntary officers in the Home Guard are written down in a law that dates back to 1948. Much has happened over the 72 years • the security policy situation is different and most elderly people live longer. When it comes to solving international and national tasks, it is crucial that each volunteer is able to carry out the task. Therefore, continuous assessments are already being carried out today by the commanding officers and the other volunteers in the Home Guard, assessing whether they comply satisfactorily with the requirements associated with the function in question. But we also need to have faith that our volunteers in the Home Guard, who are trained in making decisions, can themselves assess how much they are capable of or whether it is time to say stop. This bill is equally a tribute to the many volunteers who spend weekends after weekends and evenings working for Denmark and for citizens' safety. The Home Guard runs for everything from natural disasters to international missions or to situations like that in North Jutland, where we have a task to be undertaken by many authorities in the country. We owe them thanks and recognition for this, and we give them, among other things. With this bill. Many older people are volunteers and have the time and desire to engage, take hold and make a difference. It is a valuable resource, not least for the National Guard. That is why we must support legislation that allows the elderly to continue their work. Bill L 35 implies that in future there will be no upper age limit for voluntary command in the Home Guard. It shall be the ability of the person concerned to perform his or her duties, and not the age of the person concerned, which shall be essential for a commanding officer to retain his or her degree. Because if you can and will, you must also have the opportunity to continue in the Home Guard. That is why the Social Democratic Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114505	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114516	Thank you. With this bill, we are abolishing, as I said, the age criterion in the Home Guard Act, which means that voluntary officers in the Home Guard must resign from their position at the age of 60. From now on, it will be only a voluntary commander's ability to perform his or her duties and not his or her age, which determines whether the commanding officer can keep his or her degree. We in the Left think this is a very, very good idea. Since the original law was introduced in 1948, our life expectancy and general health have improved considerably. That is why it makes sense to abolish the age criterion, so that those who are passionate about taking action in the Home Guard can continue to do so for even more years. In general, we think this is a very good principle: that we do not discriminate on the basis of age, but look at the efforts that people are making, and we believe that it will give our Home Guard better opportunities to carry out the great and important task that they are doing very well for the benefit and happiness of all of us. So we in the Left welcome the bill and we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114628	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114640	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for taking the initiative here. I can tell you that this is something that has been wanted in the Home Guard for so many years. It has been said how unfair it was and how bad an idea it was. So it is very good that it is now being adopted, as it seems to be doing. I can agree with everything that has been said by the various parties. We have had some grotesque situations, for example. a master, who was 60 years old, apparently could no longer carry a ship, and then suddenly someone else had to do it, but he could not take it over, because he did not have the right degree, and something like that does not belong today. I am also part of the National Guard, and I am well over 60 years old, and I do well, I think. But there is certainly a great deal of enthusiasm because the Minister has taken the initiative to do so. It will be appreciated throughout the National Guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114736	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard, it doesn't look like he's here. If there are no others from Radicals, we shall proceed to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114803	I would just like to say that I am not Anne, but I am a substitute today, and I would like to read out her rapporteur's speech: in the SF we greatly appreciate the efforts made by the Home Guard. We are very grateful for the efforts made by volunteers to solve various tasks. Whether it is about border security, road safety or environmental clean-up should not underestimate the importance of the Home Guard. Therefore, SF also believes that it should be the desire and not the age to decide whether to serve in our Home Guard. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114838	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. But she is not here, and then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114859	Thank you. I am today a substitute for our usual rapporteur. I really appreciate this bill, because it is time we abolished the age criterion. In the Conservative People's Party, we love the Home Guard, and we believe that it is high time to abolish age discrimination in the Home Guard. Age is not as much a limiting factor as in the past, so we can fully agree that in future it will be a commanding officer's ability to perform his or her position and not only the age of the person concerned. It is very good that a commanding officer can keep his or her degree. We look forward to voting in favour of this bill after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114944	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106114952	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have described what the draft law contains and we fully agree with what has been said. So New Citizens also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115003	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115014	Thank you for the floor. Like the Socialist rapporteur, I have rounded out the 60 years and I am unable to see why we should discriminate against experienced people. That is why this is a very good legislative proposal, which we naturally support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115036	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115045	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate on the draft law, not least the contributions of the very experienced people who have also been here and, above all, thank you for your support for the proposal. The Home Guard is of extreme value and importance to Denmark. Thousands of volunteers help to ensure that we are a safe and secure society. This is particularly true in the crisis that we are in the middle of, where the Home Guard plays a central role as part of the preparedness. Being a good homeguard isn't about the year on your birth certificate. It is about professional and human qualifications. That is why I have also looked forward to presenting and discussing the bill here, because it changes a rule in the Home Guard Act that commanders in the Home Guard will be demoted at the age of 60. The Home Guard has been an important part of the Danish preparedness for more than 70 years, and today the National Guard consists of 13,500 dedicated active volunteers and 30,000 in the reserve force. Experienced and skilled commanders are important to the National Guard's task solution, but you are not pr. definition a bad commanding officer at the age of 60, just as one is not necessarily a good commanding officer at the age of 40. It depends on human and professional qualifications. The commanders, who have many years of experience in the Home Guard, have a unique special knowledge that it takes many years to build. That's why they're a huge resource for the National Guard. Those with the skills we degrade today without further ado. That is why, since I was brought to the attention of the Home Guard, I wanted to change this rule. The purpose of the bill here is precisely to remove the age barrier, and thus the voluntary commanders will no longer automatically lose their degree at the age of 60. Instead, it will be professional and human competences that determine when a commanding officer should stop. Denmark is a strong community made up of young and elderly people, and I believe that we are making our society stronger and better with the Home Guard. That's the way it is when you meet across age. With the many different tasks that will follow in the future, we need the Home Guard to be strong, diverse and, above all, a qualified Home Guard. That is exactly what we are helping to strengthen with the bill here today. I look forward to a good and constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115326	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115346	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115403	Thank you. George Harrison's first IP after his time in The Beatles was called "All Things Must Pass" and I guess it's actually very appropriate for this very thing. This is a matter of a fund that is about to expire. The amount of work is getting out of hand, which means it's getting harder and harder to argue for maintaining this fund. What is so fortunate is that we can merge with the ordinary Construction Damage Fund and thereby create a separate office in the Construction Damage Fund for the general area. We think that makes good sense, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party should recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115453	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115513	Thank you. I'll be brief. It is the right thing to do, that we get slimmed down the way we now do things when the need has lapsed. And what we in the Left have also noticed is that you set up a separate department, Section C... we think it's positive... so you kind of have a handle on who cares about what. So those were the words from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115536	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115554	The amendment of the law is really good for those who oppose paperwork. It consists of two parts. The first part deals with simplification and efficiency, and the second part deals with the repeal of the green urban renewal scheme. And there I think it might be worth mentioning, since this Construction Damage Fund is a kind of insurance that is paid for by urban renewal, that the Folketing has emptied this box for other projects. But of course there is money to save by having one rather than two administrations, so we in the Danish People's Party can easily support that. The second part is, after all, about the green urban renewal scheme, which will be abolished, simply because an evaluation showed that it was not used because of cumbersome bureaucracy. The parties to the agreements, including the Danish People's Party, have approved it, and together we can vote yes to L 6 when we reach that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115659	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115717	Thank you. I am today a substitute for the rapporteur, but I would like to read her speech. In the SF we agree that it makes no sense to maintain the Construction Damage Fund as an independent organisation when the number of building renewal cases in the fund is so small. However, we believe that it is important not to forget the building renewal cases which will in future be without cover. These injuries are a great burden both administratively and financially. The reason why we now have very few building damage cases in connection with urban renewal is that there has been a reduction in funding for urban renewal. A problem can therefore arise if urban renewal in the future has to be given greater economic priority, as the number of building cases will increase accordingly. So in the future we can find ourselves in a situation where many properties will be without insurance and without the possibility of help from the Building Damage Fund. We would therefore ask the Minister to discuss this in greater detail in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115826	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115838	Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115841	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106115900	I also have to tell the Minister of Housing that I am also a substitute today and take them all. It's a marathon ride I'm up to here. Due to declining urban renewal activities and thus decreasing payments to the Building Damage Fund for Building Renewal, the fund's economy is under pressure. The re-prioritisation of the State Urban Renewal Framework to a national pool, which happened with the 2019 Finance Act, further increases the pressure on the fund's economy as this leads to an effective end to future payments to the fund. It therefore makes good sense, from the Conservative People's Party's point of view, to put together the Construction Damage Fund for Building Renewal and the Construction Damage Fund in a new section C. It is positive that Section C is kept financially separate from the Construction Damage Fund's other activities. All in all, we are in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120000	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120006	Thank you. I'm a substitute, too. New citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120012	Thank you. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120021	It was one of my great pleasures as Minister of Housing at the time that I could find the support of a majority in the Folketing to stop the urban renewal effort with public crowns. There has to be plenty of urban renewal all the time, but it is rather strange that it is taxpayers who have to pay for renting out or private city renewal. After all, they have to pay for this themselves, and the tenants have to pay for it in the form of higher rents. It was therefore gratifying that it could be abolished and the money could be used for something more sensible at the time. That is why we no longer need the Building Damage Fund for the renewal of buildings. It deals only with the urban renewals that have been allocated public money to the past, and that is, of course, downward in nature, because no new money is being allocated, and therefore the residual function that exists can now be added to the ordinary building damage fund, and that is a good administrative relief. That is what we are doing, and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120123	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We'll pass on the floor to the Minister for Housing, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120131	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the latest Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who is going in and supporting something that has to do with urban renewal, however, to make it more effective, but nevertheless. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. The purpose of the draft law is to deal with the Construction Damage Fund with due care regarding the renewal of buildings, including, of course, the fund's cases and finances. Due to the cuts in the urban renewal framework in recent years, the fund's economy is under pressure and today fewer, typically quite small, cases are being carried out compared to previous ones. This means that fewer and less contributions are paid into the fund. It is therefore considered that there is no longer any basis for maintaining it as an independent fund. Nor is there any basis for continuing damage coverage of building renewals, as so few renovations are covered by the rules today. It is therefore proposed that the cases, assets, liabilities, etc. in the Fund be transferred to the Building Damage Fund in the general field. The two building damage funds have many similarities and many of the same tasks, for example: implement both funds through-the-board on construction work, handle damage claims and provide for the dissemination of building technical knowledge. The building damage fund for building renewal cases is therefore proposed to be transferred to the Construction Damage Fund, where a new department, Section C, will be set up to deal with damage cover for existing building renewal cases. The new department is proposed to be separate and financially independent of the Construction Damage Fund's other departments, A and B. This will mean that the departments cannot borrow money for each other and the departments will not be liable for each other. The proposal will mean that future building renewals will not have damage coverage of the Building Damage Fund for building renewal or other similar funds. Similarly, the review and legal assistance provided by the Fund in the past will cease. Therefore, in the event of a building damage, the owners themselves will have to claim against a responsible contractor or adviser in the future. However, it is expected to be very few urban buildings that will be left without damage cover and legal assistance from the fund in the future, as there are very few properties covered by the Construction Damage Fund for Building Renewal. In addition, agreed green urban renewal is proposed to be abolished. Agreed green urban renewal was part of the energy savings package from 2014 and is based on an agreement between the landlords and a majority of tenants to implement energy-saving works in the property. The purpose of the scheme was to increase the interest of private landlords in initiating energy renovation in the private rental building. The proposal to repeal the scheme is the result of the evaluation of agreed green urban renewal, which showed that the scheme is not being applied in practice. In those words, I should like to thank you for the good debate on the draft law and I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120416	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120433	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120448	Thank you. I have just to say that in my speech before I forgot to say that after long and tough negotiations, this time without lunch, we also have the support of the Radicals for the legislative proposal we have just dealt with and, as such, for what we are dealing with here. As I have said, the draft law we are discussing now has three parts. Firstly, we allow municipalities to establish and finance a scheme so that students can be offered temporary accommodation if they cannot find one before the start of their studies. Secondly, we are preparing to follow up a broad agreement from 2017, so that housing companies can make increased use of the digital mail solution in their communication with tenants. Thirdly, the municipality may apply that tenants in general old-age and nursing homes may in exceptional cases be terminated and assigned new accommodation if the care needs change. It can be said that these are three very different proposals, and of course I would particularly like to highlight the part which allows the municipalities to offer students a temporary accommodation at the start of their studies. We are well aware of the problem that every summer thousands of students are admitted to higher education in the country, and it can be said that it is particularly a challenge in the capital to find accommodation for all of them at once. Of course, we will solve that, among other things. in that we have built some more permanent study homes, and I also know that work is being done in Copenhagen. I know that there is an ambition that some 12 000 permanent study homes should be up to 2031. We also see that the pressure on study accommodation is particularly strong around study start, where a special solution is needed. That is also why, on the part of the Social Democrats, we voted to introduce a roof over the head guarantee for students in the major study cities. What may have caused some surprise is that Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg, without the use of legislation, are able to find a roof over their heads. But Copenhagen stated that one lacks a legal basis for doing this, and that is where the pressure and price of study accommodation are greatest. They consider that they are challenged by the legislation in force, which requires that roofing above the main guarantee should not result in losses for the municipality. Now it can be said that with this we are suggesting that it is possible for the municipal council itself to organise a scheme according to local conditions. This means that a roof above the top-of-the-line guarantee must be based on itself, that there must be a balance between revenue and expenditure, but that the municipal council will be able to provide support if deemed necessary in order to achieve a balance in the budget. I am, of course, glad that with this bill we can deliver what we have set up in relation to a roof above-the-top guarantee. In relation to the digital mail, the time is well ripe for us to use the digital solution to turn to the tenants, so we also support that. On the third proposal on housing for the elderly and for the elderly, I would like to say that we have received some answers from both Lev and the Institute for Human Rights. We have also received an answer from the Ministry which I think somewhere indicates that the problem is not as it has been described. It is clear that when we get such inquiries, I would of course recommend that we take them into the further reading of the committee to ensure that we can give a clear answer that this is done in such a way to give the municipalities some flexibility to some citizens in some existing elderly and nursing homes. It may make sense, given that it is very complicated and very sluggish to do this today. But I am open to having a debate in committee on the requests that have been made there, so of course we are doing it in the right way. Otherwise, the Social Democrats, together with the Radicals, must recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120851	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106120910	Thank you. As the Socialist rapporteur has said, the proposal contains three independent proposals. We have been somewhat surprised that three such different proposals are brought together in one: on young people, on digitalisation and on the elderly. I hope that the Minister will be able to make us a little more aware of why this confusion has been chosen. But if we look at the first proposal, we have to say that many young people have an acute housing shortage in connection with study start-ups, and this is particularly a problem concerning the capital city, Copenhagen, where there is a lack of study accommodation. The municipality of Copenhagen has a backlog they have not yet managed and the establishment of temporary youth housing makes sense and should, of course, go hand in hand with the establishment of permanent study accommodation. Already today, temporary study homes are being established in major cities in Denmark. The Minister is therefore asked to explain why specific legislation is needed in this area, as temporary housing is already being established in Aarhus and Odense and Aalborg. Why is it possible in these cities, and why is it that special legislation or special legislation is needed here? All in all, however, I must also say that we naturally support 100%, that temporary study accommodation must also be established in Copenhagen if that is where there is a particular challenge. However, we would like to hear a little more about the precise nature of this challenge. In relation to the second proposal, the then government, consisting of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, entered into a political agreement in 2017 with almost the rest of the Danish Parliament, as far as I can see, on increased digital communication in the field of rental. Digitalisation in the general sector was an area in which work was to be carried out. The implementation of the agreement in 2017 included that the writing per year of the contract was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. the letter was to be maintained for payment claims and termination, which should ensure additional security. Digital solutions may include greater security of delivery for the citizen, and digital solutions will contribute to administrative relief for the general housing companies. That is, of course, positive. But they can also hold a risk. The recipient of the digital mail must have a certain level of readiness in addition to, of course, access to technical equipment. Compared to the breadth of the composition of residents in general housing, including the larger group of e.g. older and vulnerable people, a purely digital solution may seem risky. As is proposed, it may mean that older people and some of our most vulnerable citizens may lose their homes if messages are not received. Conversely, there may be older people and vulnerable citizens to whom the purely digital solution can be better. This may make it easier for relatives to help and keep up. We should also note that, on 5 November of this year, we have received objections to the proposal from Danske Handicaporganisations. We have also received from Lev, who also points out that they have not been on the consultation list. Why Danske Handicaporganisations have not been on the consultation list wonders, and so please reply to the Minister. I have also noted that the Social Democrat rapporteur has opened the door to the fact that we must, of course, look at it and have a good discussion of it in committee, and I acknowledge that. But we are looking forward to a committee reading in this area where we can learn a little bit more about it. If we look at the third proposal, it will be possible for municipalities to apply for an experimental scheme under which tenants in general homes and old people's and nursing homes can be terminated in exceptional cases and be referred to a new suitable housing if, for example, they are: their care needs change. The Left is in favour of allowing municipalities to develop new solutions to solve municipal tasks better and more effectively for the benefit of citizens. The basic idea of the proposal is an experimental system whereby older citizens who wish to choose communities can gather together, while older citizens, who may have a great need for care and have a greater desire to be able to choose the community on and off, gather together. It makes sense. However, the proposal also poses certain challenges: in relation to the words of the rent law on inequitableness, in relation to the citizen's consent, in relation to the rights of the citizen. We look forward to the Minister unfolding what the principle of subsidiarity implies in the specific proposal. From the hearings it appears that the Elders case expresses the same wish. We again need the Minister to clarify why Danske Handicaporganisations and other relevant organisations have not been consulted. And then we look forward to a committee procedure in which it is clarified how the rights of the elderly citizen are protected, because it should be safe to grow older in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121411	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party, it seems. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121421	She just got a slightly deeper voice. Well, that's because we have to keep our distance in here, and then, sir. Soren Egge Rasmussen and I have space right next to each other, I just moved a single seat. I'm sorry. I just think I would like to say that, in relation to the preparation for the first reading today, we received a message from the Ministry that the hearing reply has been sent. The public hearing heard, among other things: Danish Handicap Federation, but not Danish Handicap Organisations. And the Danish Handicap Federation has not given a hearing response. But it may then be that we need to have a debate on who is to be heard in these matters. It is just to say that I think the ministry probably thought that one was on the safe side by taking one of the organisations with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121505	It is a good thing that this is being pointed out. I would still like to hear the Minister's answer to that. I'm thinking it's probably one of the same things. But we need to have this discussion, because it is not just one organisation that has to shout out here and say: there is something here that we are very concerned about, because we have some citizens who are vulnerable. That is why I really think that this is something we should be extremely aware of, especially when we are talking about these residential areas, where we know that there are an extra number of citizens who are at risk and where we have, one might say, an extra responsibility as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121538	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106121550	Thank you, President. The bill consists of three parts. The first part allows municipalities to allocate and finance temporary housing to all trainees if they cannot find accommodation. And, as the rapporteur of the Left has already pointed out, it is a kind of lex Copenhagen, because you can already do what the bill proposes in Odense Aarhus. And what we cannot really understand in the Danish People's Party is why you have to have separate legislation for a single municipality that cannot find out. During the technical examination, I put the question to the Minister and the official apparatus, which could not answer the question. I hope that the Minister will have an answer in his speech today so that we can have an answer as to why we need to make separate legislation for Copenhagen. The second part of the proposal is that landlords of general housing should in future send letters to tenants as digital mail, and that is part of an agreement that Dansk Folkeparti is in, and we are, of course, still at that part. It's a good thing that you can send digital mail. We have also noted that one can be exempted under the current rules so that one can get paper mail if one asks for it. And we have also seen that the Ministry will follow whether it will mean that more tenants will be put on the street because they haven't paid the rent. All very well. The third part I want to dwell on. It is, of course, the experiment which, in exceptional circumstances, allows for the termination of tenants of general old-age or nursing homes if they have changed care needs, that is to say, the tenants. And as far as I can understand from the draft law, it has been part of an attempt by the free community that has then been moved to the right of challenge. What we haven't been able to find out is which municipalities have challenged the Ministry and asked for this experiment. I do not know if the Minister has the opportunity to answer that question. If the Minister is not able to do so, we will have to get an answer to it during the committee procedure. That would be nice for us. What we can see is that it has been attempted to do so, i.e. that the test approval lies with municipal and regional councils and the institutions themselves. And in each case, the Minister of Housing must assess whether there should be approval. And then we can also see that there is a desire for more flexibility for settlements that have mixed forms of housing, so that some elderly people can be accommodated when they have to move to a home so that they can get better care. And the purpose is all good. We can also see that tenants and relatives must be involved and that the experiment is evaluated. The only thing we cannot see is whether we are under any obligation to carry out the experiment at all, i.e. according to the right of challenge. The Minister may also answer that question. And then we have also noted in the Danish People's Party that, for once, we are in line with the Institute for Human Rights in their concern about this attempt. It's always a special pleasure or what to say when you agree with the Institute for Human Rights. This does not happen very often, but it must also be mentioned that right must be right. That is why we in the Danish People's Party will have to wait for the committee before taking a position. We are very, very sceptical about the establishment of this experiment. At first glance, I do not think we are going to support it. We do not have to do that to that extent; a minister always has the right to carry out an experiment. I do not know whether legislation is necessary here. The Minister may also answer that question. Because if the minister is just to start it as an attempt, we can take it out of the bill, so the Danish People's Party also has the opportunity to say yes to the other things. So we await the committee reading, we await the Minister and the Ministry's reply before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122033	Thank you. There are no brief comments on that. We thank the rapporteur and we go to the SF rapporteur. This is Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122044	Thank you. I am today a substitute for the rapporteur in this area and I would like to read the speech. In the SF, we believe that the draft law put forward by the government today should be divided into two separate legislative proposals, as we cannot vote in favour of the experimental scheme, which makes it possible to terminate tenants in general, elderly and nursing homes. The SF does not believe that it is reasonable to move around older citizens and people with disabilities in the way proposed by the bill. These people, like all other ordinary homeowners, are subject to the General Housing Act and should therefore have the same rights. The law clearly defines why it should not be possible to terminate tenants, so why should residents of general elderly and nursing homes have deprived themselves of that right? It can be enormously traumatic for the elderly and people with disabilities to be moved around against their will. A move should therefore be made by agreement and not by unilateral decision of the landlord. Anything else will be unworthy. The bill was reportedly drawn up on the basis of a specific case where very few elderly residents in a municipality did not want to move. So the proposal does not deal with a general trend in our society. That is why we in the SF believe that it is absurd to make legislation that restricts residents' rights in this way. And if it turns out to have major economic consequences for the municipality to respect the rights laid down by the general housing law, then we must go the way of dialogue with the elderly. We cannot therefore vote in favour of allowing the landlord to terminate tenants in general old-age and nursing homes. We therefore propose that this part of the legislative proposal be dealt with independently. In the bill's part on the transition to digital mail in the general sector we see in SF both some advantages and some challenges. We are in favour of the introduction of digital mail, as the current system is both outdated and time-consuming for landlords and tenants. The new digital system is therefore good, but it is feared that the scheme will hit people who are not IT-strong, very hard, as they may risk losing their homes if they miss an e-mail. Therefore, we propose to require the landlord to send a physical letter to tenants when it comes to termination and payment claims. Leasers must also be given the opportunity to object to termination by letter. This may happen alongside the possibility of having the same communication on digital mail. We are aware that it is possible to opt out of digital mail and thereby receive only physical letters, which is particularly beneficial to the older population. Despite this, it is SF's clear conviction that there are people in Denmark, particularly socially vulnerable, who benefit from the digital solution, but who can at the same time overlook an email, thereby possibly putting their housing situation under pressure. We therefore want this to be included in the further work of the committee. The last part of the bill, which concerns roofs above the head guarantee, we in the SF are very positive about, as we believe it is a good solution to remedy the acute housing situation that occurs every year at the start of studies. That is why the SF will vote in favour of that part of the bill. In conclusion, I would ask the Minister to divide the bill into two parts, so that the part relating to the attempt to terminate tenants in general old-age and nursing homes is dealt with independently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122414	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122426	It's a bill with three mixed candy. When you look at the first Bolshey to allow the municipalities to work with a roof over the head guarantee, a housing guarantee, for students, you have to say that it is really good to implement it. When you come from Aarhus, you have experienced that there has been such a roof over your head-guarantee for several years. It has developed over the years, and the municipality has been able to monitor whether there are nursing homes that are about to be built on whether there are course beds out at Bekraftsgården, whether there is a housing association that is on the way to renovating a housing block and whether there are thus some empty dwellings. If it can then be supplemented by some container solutions in different places in the city, then that is what has been offered to young people at the start of their studies so that they can have a safe start of study and not have to think that they were in an impossible housing situation. It has been a very good arrangement. At the same time, priority has been given to building more young people's homes, which means that we are in the process of solving youth housing problems, and this has also been done in Aalborg and Odense without the legislative proposal we have here today. And it might actually be interesting to know whether what has been practiced in Aarhus, Aalborg and Odense is something that is illegal. And it has to be said that if a municipality has little expense in terms of being a modern city of study, that is all right. In other words, a municipality spends money on several things that, like profiling the municipality itself, and if you want to be a good student city, you also have to work seriously with youth housing for the young people. Of course, we are in favour of helping young people in the Copenhagen area as well. Some mention Copenhagen, but it is, in fact, broader. After all, it is the Greater Copenhagen area that needs to take the problems of youth housing seriously. It's Frederiksberg, too. It is also DTU which has many study places. So, I miss the fact that you really lift this up and say that the Copenhagen area is an area that attracts many students and that you then have to solve the housing problems. We will, of course, vote in favour of the introduction of a law which will help to secure what has been practiced in other study cities for several years. The second point about increased digital communication is that we are in agreement on this, and we stand by it. We think it is a good thing that we are looking at whether we have gone too far in terms of whether we should have a letter if it is a question of terminating the lease. We would also like to discuss this in committee. And then we have the third point, and that is where we need to split this bill. I think there is a lack of an historical account of why this bill comes here. It has been in process in the past in another ministry, where it ended up not being adopted. Is that something that can be seen from the case? I haven't been able to find that. Then we have recently received letters, enquiries, that not everyone has been consulted on this matter, and so we are dealing with a case where it is possible that it is older people, perhaps people with disabilities, who have reduced their opportunities for life in connection with what is called an experiment, and at the same time they are undermining their rights as tenants. We see great problems in that, and there will certainly be a very good explanation for the fact that we end up being for that sort of thing. I have noted that there is apparently a pre-history that it has been something that has been in demand in some places. Well, that does not mean that we have to introduce legislation on it. In the Enhedslisten, we look very seriously at such matters as impairing the rights of tenants, and that is why it is important for us, as the case now is, to divide the bill into two parts, so that the third sour candy comes for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122821	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106122830	Thank you. Educational seekers always have a challenge to find accommodation, especially in connection with study start-ups. It is therefore positive to extend the possibility for municipalities to find temporary housing for them in the general housing stock, and we support this. It also makes very good sense to digitise communication in the general housing sector and, to the extent that payment claims and cancellations are maintained in writing, we welcome the proposal. The latter area, which covers L 7, is more controversial in that an experimental scheme should allow for the withdrawal of residents in general elderly homes and nursing homes if the resident either improves or deteriorates to the designated housing form. Of course, it is very intrusive to withdraw people from their homes. The comments suggest that the main problem is to make older homes work well with a good community if a resident should be moved to a nursing home. It is an idea which one can have some sympathy for, that is, as we get worse, we can move to an appropriate accommodation, and in most cases this can probably be done without significant controversy if the process of awarding housing is clear and transparent. I can also imagine that the possibility of the forced transfer of a demented citizen of an elderly resident to a nursing home, what the bill allows, may be appropriate, but if the option applies the other way, that is to say that the citizen is getting better and can be terminated from his elderly home, we are more sceptical. In view of the fact that this is an experimental arrangement, we are prepared to discuss the possibilities constructively in the further work of the committee, while at the same time also focusing on the legal status of citizens. Overall, the Conservative People's Party welcomes the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123020	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123026	Thank you. I'm a substitute for sir. Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and to say that we have some criticisms and that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will send some written questions to the Minister before we can take a position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123041	Thank you. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123048	Thank you. There are three points in this draft law, and we are at least supporting the two of them, we expect. The digitalisation and digital communication between landlords and tenants in the general sector is something we support and are also part of an agreement on. Then there is the proposal to make it more possible for the municipalities and specifically the City of Copenhagen to create temporary accommodation for students. We support that too, I think, but we also wonder a little bit about the fact that if it is really the case that other municipalities can already do so with the legislation in force, why is it necessary to create new legislation, so that the City of Copenhagen can do so? We wonder and think that there must be an explanation for this, and we will ask for it. Then there is the last element that is about that nursing elderly people, and also younger people in Denmark with a foster home, should be able to be terminated or moved to another foster home or away from the foster home, if they get better, and that is from the point of view of something that we look sympathetic on. In fact, we do not like the fact that a very resource-intensive housing is allocated to some citizens and that, if they no longer need the very large resource, they continue to have a right to remain and that there will be no room available for anyone who needs the resource. It's just the whole process of this bill that puzzles me deeply, and it's not that I always have to stand here on the platform and talk about when I was a minister, although it was a good time both for society and for me, but at that time an agreement had just been reached between KL and the state, i.e. in practice the then Finance Minister and the government, where KL had asked for an opportunity to do so. And in line with that, it was then incumbent upon me as Minister for Housing to get a bill through the Chamber, and it was put forward because it was agreed with the municipalities. Some people were a little unhappy about that, and they asked KL if it was really true that KL wanted it there, and to that KL replied that they didn't really need it, and then I stood there with my bill, which I had put forward, because an agreement had been made with KL about it, and KL said they didn't want the bill, and I had to withdraw it to a great moro for people who care about it. Now it comes back, and for the sake of the KL we have to adopt it here. I hope there is some kind of explanation for that, because what appears now is that KL is an amateur enterprise that cannot find out whether they want it here or not, and it is moving back and forth depending on KL's changing opinions about this which can take place over a few weeks and months. So I wonder if if the Minister for Housing, if he has been put into this course of events, would be able to explain why the proposal now exists again, and if KL has now agreed with himself that they would actually like it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123428	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We give the floor to the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106123438	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the positive reception, at least for two of the three sweets in the bag. Yesterday there were three soft proposals, I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, now it is three sweets where two of them are sweet and the last one sucks. I'll try to go through it here; the three parts. The first part is about a municipality being able to set up a scheme providing temporary shelter for trainees. That is what is popularly called a roof over the head guarantee, and it exists, as several rapporteurs have said, around the country under that name. That is why, of course, I can understand the amazement as to why we need a legislative proposal. Where I see it from is that the challenge to the municipal council by setting up this type of scheme is to get it to rest in itself financially. This is not always possible, and therefore a need may arise for the municipal council to cover a deficit if the rental income cannot cover the costs of setting up and operating. The City of Copenhagen has then questioned the legal basis for their model, and we have therefore decided to clarify that legislation so that it is now beyond doubt that deficit guarantees can be made under these arrangements. We in the Ministry have not dealt with the concrete models around the country, but we believe that it should be possible to establish them, and with this proposal we remove the doubts that might exist as to whether municipalities should provide a deficit guarantee for temporary study homes. And of course it is not only for the benefit of Copenhagen, but for all the municipalities that may be interested in doing so. The proposal is to give the municipal council clear powers to grant aid if it proves necessary. We are not proposing a specific model for the scheme; it is up to the local actors. We would like more student accommodation to be built. We know that many study homes are on their way, and it is important that permanent study homes are established. But this scheme is designed to solve a temporary problem of study start, and that's what we're gonna solve. I cannot say whether Copenhagen is right in saying that there is a lack of legal basis or whether the other three cities of study are right in saying that there is a legal basis. For all four municipalities, however, it is probably the best solution to clarify clearly what is permitted in the legislation and what is not permitted. In relation to the second part, it is a question of landlords in the general housing sector being able to send messages via digital mail, i.e. e-Boks. This is part of the deal we made in good time when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was the Minister of Transport. Ole Birk Olesen and to a certain extent also for the community on 2 July 2017. And, of course, it's about making it more up to date. Persons who are exempt from digital mail in general are also exempted here and have the possibility of getting it physically. And that can be done, for example. be people who do not have access to a computer, or it may be people who have physical or cognitive impairments. The possibility to send all messages digitally could be used from the date of entry into force of the new digital mail solution, and this is expected to happen in the summer of 2021. The new solution will remind us of the one that exists today, and as something new will also be able to send payment claims and cancellations with Digital Post. Such communications are, of course, particularly important for tenants, as tenants risk losing their homes if the tenants do not respond. There is a consistent practice for the Ministry of Transport and Housing to receive twice a year an inventory of the number of deferrals of tenants from the Court of Justice and we will keep a close eye at the Ministry on whether there will be an increase in the number of deferrals of tenants after the entry into force of the amendments. Finally, I am aware that there are no studies on whether physical or digital mail is best suited to deferred tenants. There will certainly be tenants for whom life is made easier by receiving messages digitally. Then there is the acidic Bolshje of the three, and it is of course the question that the municipalities can apply for permission to set up an experimental scheme under which tenants in general old-age and nursing homes can be visited and assigned to a new suitable accommodation if their care needs change. The experimental regulations have been sought by the municipality of Aarhus and by the municipality of Bornholm, not by KL as a whole, but at least by the two municipalities as part of the extended right of challenge, which among other things. aims to contribute to the development of new solutions in the public sector. It is proposed that during the period from 1 January 2021 to 1 January 2025, experiments may be carried out to allow landlords of general elderly dwellings and landlords of general care homes to be allowed, subject to a number of requirements and conditions, to terminate the tenant in exceptional cases. The proposal must be concluded with an evaluation which can serve as a basis for assessing whether the experiments should be implemented in the legislation. It will have to be stated in the lease agreement that termination may take place in accordance with the experimental provisions so that existing tenants cannot be covered by the pilot scheme. One experimental option could be used in settlements which include both elderly homes and nursing homes. The resident who chooses to move into an elderly residence in a residential area, which also includes nursing homes, can experience a sense of security by securing a foster home in the same settlement if the need for care changes. The proposed experimental access improves the possibility of allowing elderly homes to be inhabited by citizens who mostly want a community, while nursing homes are mainly inhabited by citizens who are more caring and who may want to be able to choose the community on and off. The principle of subsidiarity is an important precondition for allowing experiments to be carried out on the termination of rentals in general housing for the elderly. In order for termination to take place, the tenant must be guaranteed a foster home in the same settlement as the one where the elderly residence is located. This opens up, among other things. the possibility that there may be staff associated with home care, who are also included in the staff of the rental houses. After moving to a foster home, the tenant will thus experience the security of being met by staff that the tenant knows in advance. Among several formal conditions which must be met, instructions for a nursing home must be made on the basis of a visitation where a specific and individual assessment of the citizen's need for a nursing home is made. If the tenant of an elderly home does not have a desire to move into a foster home in the same settlement, the tenant can seek a foster home somewhere else. The landlord must offer to carry out the relocation and pay the tenant's costs for the relocation and renovation of the abandoned lease. The second experimental option opens up the possibility of using general care homes more flexibly. As the rules are today, tenants of general care homes on an equal footing with other tenants are protected from termination. This means that there may be tenants of nursing homes who are self-reliant and who do not need to live in a foster home, but who the landlord is prevented from being able to terminate. On this basis, the landlord can only get the tenant to move if the tenant agrees. With the bill, a citizen with a mental disability will be able to visit temporarily to a nursing home. However, it is an express condition for the termination of the tenant that it can be demonstrated that the impairment of the tenant's function has developed in such a way that the tenant's need for help has been reduced so that the tenant will be able to manage in his own home. If care needs are not reduced, the citizen can remain in the foster home. In order to terminate the tenant, it must be possible to demonstrate that the needs of the tenant are not adequately addressed in the current dwelling. It shall be documented that the assessment of the tenant's needs is based on an adequate analysis carried out using the so-called adult assessment method or an equivalent method. There are therefore very good and substantiated reasons why the possibility of termination of the test clause can be used. It is still my starting point that the protection against termination provided by rental law to tenants must be maintained. Therefore, I will only grant trial permission after careful consideration in accordance with the proposed provisions. I would also like to say, following on from that, that I was warned about this legislation even when we first sent it to the hearing it was in the spring, because it is a bill that has been pushed. And I remember there that Mrs Kirsten Normann, who has experience in the industry herself, said to me that she was very sceptical about this bill, and I agreed with her then, I think we would wait for the hearing answers that came. Now there have been critical consultation responses, among others. from Danske Handicaporganisationer, and I know that the Danish Handicap Federation is on the consultation list, and that after this situation we have also put Danske Handicaporganisationer on the consultation list, so we are at least sure that they will also be informed in the future when there are hearings in this context that the Left rapporteur asked about. Of course, there is always an opportunity to give a hearing, whether you are on the consultation list or not, but it is clear that they must also be able to do so. I have, of course, also read their criticism and we will try to find a solution which the Folketing seems to make sense based on the criticism that has been raised. I understand that, in principle and in the specific situation, it is very intrusive if you are told: Now you are not allowed to live in your home anymore. And it is clear that this must never become the norm in the housing policy we are pursuing in this country. It should only be reserved for some very special situations. But I can also see it from a municipal perspective, i.e. if you have some very high costs for some housing with special care, then you want, if people no longer need that care, to free those homes to those who actually need it. However, as I have said, it has always been my starting point that we should wait for the consultation answers that came and try to see if we could find a solution which also seems to make sense in those organisations, for example among people with disabilities, who are going to be the ones who use it. Now my time is up, so you have to ask questions if there's anything I didn't get.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124456	Thank you for that and there will be an opportunity for that. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124502	Yes, but now that the Minister has been warned that this was not the best bill on the sour candy, one could have chosen not to put it forward. And I think that now that we have to have a thorough discussion about it, we should also look at what kind of criticism comes from the Institute for Human Rights and which focuses on what applies to people with disabilities and their rights. I would also like to know, when the Minister says that it is at the request of the municipality of Bornholm and the municipality of Aarhus, whether it is the municipality of Aarhus or it is the older councilman in Aarhus who wants us to have this change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124541	To the end, I have just been informed that it is the City of Aarhus. What kind of Magistrate that belongs to, I don't know, but I'm sure we can look at the paper and see where it comes from. In relation to the first point, on why I did not just refrain from putting it forward, I would say that I do not think that the Folketing should be in such a place as to put forward only things for which it is known that there is a majority or with which everyone agrees. Now there has been a discussion, as the former Minister for Transport and Housing remarked, that the KL wanted that bill, but it was then withdrawn, and now some concrete municipalities are asking for it. So, although the Rules of Procedure in here have changed over the last few decades, so that we do not have the kind of very open debates in here that we had in the 1980s and beyond, I still think there should be a possibility of making proposals which I think we are also trying to get in here and which we may find that there is no majority for or very specific criticism against which we cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124649	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124650	Well, I can follow that. Then there is also the question of whether we should adopt any legislation that is not needed, and that is with regard to the issue of youth housing and roof over the head guarantee. Well, since we have a situation where in three major study cities you have experience with roofs above the head guarantee and you have been running it for many years, and the City of Copenhagen then comes and says that they want a change of law, then I can't help laughing at it. I mean, I think it's good when municipalities inspire each other with good solutions. It is quite possible that in the other three cities you have had a small expense by having this roof over your head-guarantee, but you also spend money on profiling yourself to jazz festivals and one and the other. Well, why not spend some money profiling as a student city?
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124736	We are tempted to say that the rapporteur can talk about this with his party colleague in the Technical and Environmental Administration, but it will of course be too polemical to say so, so I will not. But regardless of what I think, when there are four cities that have many students, and one place is of course of the opinion that it is not possible to do so in the current legislation, then it can be both the case that one place is wrong, but also that there is a likelihood that you are wrong in the other three places. And since I am not really interested in having to sit and choose between them, I think that the best thing to do is to make the legislation so clear that it is clear to all four.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124816	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124823	Thank you. As I said, we can back this up. We can also support it with the fact that municipalities must have an opportunity to offer other accommodation to residents in nursing homes if the resident has a completely different care needs. But I'm interested in the history here. Now it is the municipality of Aarhus and the municipality of Bornholm that have asked for it here. What happened back in 2017, when I was tricked into making this proposal, was that the City of Aarhus, who holds the chair in KL, got it through here and got the government then to table the bill. But when it was then put forward, it turned out that there was no support in KL to implement it, and that is why we had to withdraw it again, and now there is something new that is specifically aimed at, among others. Aarhus Municipality, because it is Aarhus Municipality that wants it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106124919	I think it was sir. Martin Damm, who was chairman of KL in 2017, but it may of course be that the mayor of Aarhus was vice president. Either way, it is Bornholm who has approached and raised it with me, and then Aarhus Municipality has also approached the Ministry. I agree that it is embarrassing if you make a demand based on your own members, and then you may even persuade a government to make a proposal, and your own members then pour it down the board. I can certainly understand that. And I don't have to say that I too could have been one of those who was a little snide back then. But I'd rather not dig too much into that. But it is certainly the municipality of Bornholm that I have seen as the most up-to-date in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125013	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen aborts another short remark. Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125018	Thank you. If I may stay a little bit as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten said, I think it is possible to have the idea that the first part of the bill is therefore what is about a roof above the head guarantee. Perhaps it is also a little about going out and saying that the roof has now been secured over the head for the new students coming to Copenhagen. That is also why, as I hear, the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten asks whether the other municipalities have done anything illegal. At least I think it would be good to have an answer to that in committee. In relation to the principle of subsidiarity, I am told that the Minister is trying to address it, but it is also something I think it would be nice to have something written about, in other words exactly how the principle of subsidiarity is defined in the Ministry, so that we also have it, when there are organisations asking for it. With regard to the list of organisations to be consulted on these matters, I think it is a good thing that one more should be added, so that we avoid these situations where some people know that these citizens in these areas but have not been consulted. I should just like to point out here that Lev, who, after all, is in charge of the interests of the less developed, has also gone out and given answers. That is why I would like them to be included in the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125143	Of course, we'll take that with us. In relation to whether the other municipalities have done something illegal, I would say that this is not something we have made a very concrete assessment of. It may also be that it is actually something that needs to be brought before a court in order to find out whether it is so. What we're saying with this bill is that no matter what, we're gonna make sure you can make this kind of scheme. If there are some lawyers who have made that assessment, or some lawyers who have made the opposite assessment, then we can save them all the trouble of pondering it further by ensuring that the law is such that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125224	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125227	Well, that's such a non-answer, 'cause this is just wondering. I also hope that the Minister can see for himself that it looks strange to say that one would like to say that they have a roof over their heads, since it is already something that can be delivered in the other municipalities, where there are also high prices and all these things. But I take note of the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125249	I now replied to what was asked, i.e. if we could say that something illegal had been done. I told you we couldn't. So we do not have a complete steel and nail-proof assessment of that. Although it is now some Aarhusians who stand in this Chamber and are a little after Copenhagen, I think that in this time you might also give some room to each other and say that if you have that assessment, it could be that you should also give them that security in the City of Copenhagen, regardless of how you assess it in a different way in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125321	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125326	Thank you. The Minister did not have time to answer whether we are obliged to carry out the experiment, according to the right of challenge. I hope the Minister can reply to that. And then the second part: is it not the case that the Minister has the right at all times to make experiments? And when the minister has the right to make experiments for a limited period of time, that's part of the authority of the minister... why do we have to get it down to the hall and legislate specifically? I simply find that difficult to understand. The minister will have to help me in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125413	I must owe an answer to sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. I am very sorry about that. However, I cannot reply precisely to the two things at present, but we will have a written reply as soon as possible so that you have it for further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125429	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125431	That's fair enough. The second question concerns the Aalborg, Aarhus and Odense models. Wouldn't it be a good idea for us to figure out how they work? And once we've figured out how they work, we can send them to the Mayor of Enhedslisten in Copenhagen so that they can look at them there, and then they're free to worry about us with special legislation on Copenhagen. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125456-2	I believe that the citizens' representation in Copenhagen knows the concrete model. What they are aware of is that they do not believe that they are allowed to make a deficit guarantee as a municipality. Of course, in the other three major cities of study, one thinks so. So I do not think it is because they do not know the model; I think it is because you have a different legal assessment of it. I think the easiest thing here is to clarify and make it clear that all four municipalities can make it on a completely enlightened basis and without any doubt whether it is legal or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125540	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125556	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125610	Thank you. This is an attempt somehow to make things simpler. I do not know whether it can be called a debureaucratisation proposal, but it can be said that it is approaching it. After all, in 2015 it was made in the legislation that it went from the fire authorities to the municipality in relation to the building law in relation to being able to issue prohibitions or injunctions. And that means that when we have these surveillance around here, the fire authorities have to get over the municipality and get approval from the municipality to give an injunction or a ban. What we are proposing with the legislation here is to say: can we not cut that link away? It makes no sense for us to delay the process of a ban or an injunction, by the fact that there is an authority which, by the way, is professionally the ones who are stopping whether or not to give it here and then lays it up for an additional authority, which in general should just stamp it here. So we think it's a really good idea for the municipality to get this authority to be able to delegate this to the fire department. It makes really good sense to get this done. Then there is one more element in this legislation which, in the context of the operational measures described, gives an answer as to whether this applies only to new or also existing dwellings. There, in this draft law, we state that it applies both to existing and to new buildings and buildings. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we think this is a good step so that we can recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125759	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125806	Thank you. There are some insurance that you'd rather never need, but when we know that the risk of fire is there, it's good to have taken your precautions and that things are running as smoothly as possible. In the Left, we are very much in favour of this proposal in order to allow the municipal council to lay down the power to issue injunctions and bans on operational measures relating to fire-vision of the rescue services. With the provision, the rescue services can issue instructions and bans on building errors that are operational and also on rescue services set up as a so-called Article 60 company. Operating measures must ensure that fire safety is adequate when buildings and premises are used. If, for example, there are no rules to ensure that escape routes are available, there is precisely an increased risk. The fact that rescue teams will be able to make on-the-spot decisions on injunctions and prohibitions will benefit and increase the safety of citizens, so that there will be no first reporting to municipalities until the injunction can be issued. The current rules lead to duplication of effort. The Left is in favour of the administrative simplification that is being introduced. It also makes sense to clarify in the proposal that the legal basis for the building law to lay down rules on operational conditions also applies in existing settlements, so that there is no doubt about this. So, yes to the fact that, regardless of how they are organized, municipalities and preparedness can carry out their work more effectively and without duplication of effort for the benefit of citizens' safety. Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106125954	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130000	Thank you, President. This is clearly a simplification that we have to take a position on. Municipalities may delegate responsibility for distributing injunctions and prohibitions in connection with illegal activities by fire surveillance to the emergency services. Nowadays, the emergency will have to tell the municipality, and then the municipality will hand out the order. It's not very effective. It is important to stress that this is not a matter of building engineering. They will continue to be under the authority of the municipality. Just to give an example: if you build a gate, it is under the Building Act, and it is still the municipality that is responsible for it. But if a forklift comes in and drives into it and damages it, it's under operational conditions, and with this legislation, the emergency can go in and make an injunction without having to cross the municipality. However, it can already be delegated to the emergency services if it is part of the municipality's administration. That is more the problem with the joint municipality, the so-called section 60 companies, where there is no legal basis in the law. That's what I'm gonna let them do with the bill here. But I have some doubts as to whether the legal basis will also apply to commercial companies. There are some municipalities, for example. I don't know if the Minister can answer the question that has been put to private people such as Hedensted Kommune. Falck. I hope the Ministry can answer that. It will be voluntary for the municipalities, which is also very fine, and then the proposal contains some clarifications, as the Social Democratic Party has also pointed out. All in all, we are in favour in the Danish People's Party, and we await the response and the further consideration in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130158	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130207	Thank you. I am also a substitute for this proposal, and I would like to read out the rapporteur's speech: in the SF we support this bill, as the administrative simplifications of municipal authority work in the field of fire will both improve fire safety and be an economic benefit to the municipalities. The draft law proposes a delegation of the competence to issue injunctions and bans for the municipality to the rescue services, which makes sense, since it is the rescue services that carry out the fire inspections themselves. The current practice is time-consuming and an administratively illogical process. The SF therefore supports this administrative change. The bill also clarifies the building law, which clarifies rules on operational conditions in settlements, so that the rules apply to both new and existing settlements. This clarification of the provision and change of scope makes sense, and the SF therefore supports the change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130316	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130323	Thank you. After all, the draft law gives the municipalities freedom of choice, that is to say an extra opportunity, and we think that is a positive thing. Instead of dictating from in here how it should be, it is suggested here that the municipalities have an option. I have great sympathy for this type of legislation. And then we hope that a better fire response will come out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130354	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Conservative Group and move on to the rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130401	Thank you. It makes very good sense for the municipal authorities, if they so wish, to leave the power to issue instructions and bans to the emergency services once the rescue services have inspected buildings in connection with fire vision. The municipalities, with inspiration from the Danish Parliament, have combined a number of rescue services, which requires these adjustments to the law amending the Building Act, which gives this legal basis. Of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130435	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130440	Thank you. I will, if possible, make it even shorter and just note that New Citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130447	Thank you. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130453	The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130459	Thank you. And then it's the Home Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130507	These are, in many ways, special times here. The Enhedslisten supports all the proposals that come from the government, and the Danish People's Party promotes the Institute for Human Rights here in the Assembly Hall. So it's a day that has to be written on the calendar anyway. But here we have reached the final round. The purpose of this amendment to the Building Act is to make it easier for municipalities and authorities to carry out their regulatory work in the field of fire. This should be done by giving municipalities the opportunity to leave their jurisdiction to issue orders and bans in the field of fire to the emergency services. In this way, the emergency services can act on the site when, in their activities as fire department, they discover an illegal fire safety relationship under the Building Act. As the rules are today, the municipal council does not have the power to delegate those competences to the emergency services. I would like to make that possible with this bill. The reason for the proposed change is that in 2015 the government then proposed a number of growth initiatives to promote more efficient construction, including more coherent fire regulation. In this context, it was decided that operational measures should be transferred from emergency legislation to construction legislation. However, the operational measures in the emergency legislation have not yet been removed, as it has waited for this amendment to the Building Act. Operational measures are the rules to ensure that fire safety is sound when buildings are used. It can, for example, be done. be rules that the lighting of escape routes in a building must work and that escape routes are free, so that you can get out of the building quickly in case of fire. It is these operational measures under construction legislation that the rescue teams with the proposed change should be able to look after instead of the municipality. The rescue teams can't do that today. Most tools are organised in the so-called §60 companies. The companies are owned by the municipalities, but they are not part of the municipality. This means that local authorities cannot, without a legal basis, delegate authority to them. As the rules are today, situations may arise where, in their activities as a fire department, rescue teams are not permitted to deal with illegal fire safety conditions on the site when the relationship is regulated by the Building Act. I think it is a good idea to introduce this law. Nowadays, illegal operating conditions, such as: a fire door which cannot close completely and which the emergency service detects during a fire vision shall be reported to the municipality. The municipality will then have to deal with the matter and, where appropriate, issue injunctions and prohibitions. In practice, this means that when the firefighter discovers an illegal operational relationship, even if he or she has knowledge and professional competence in principle, he or she can do nothing other than communicate it to the municipality. By adopting the proposed amendment, the municipal council will be able to waive the power to issue injunctions and bans to the rescue services. The possibility of conferring jurisdiction is a voluntary option for the municipality. If jurisdiction is waived, the on-site rescue service will be able to issue an immediate injunction or prohibition when, under their fire-view, they become aware of cases where the rules of the building regulations on operational measures have not been complied with. They will be able to do so without having to involve the municipality as they are doing today. If the bill is adopted, which I naturally hope will make matters simpler and more effective in both municipalities and emergency services. This will benefit both the municipalities and the emergency services. The second part of the legislation concerns clarification of the current provision of the Building Act, which is intended to ensure that there is a safe fire level in both existing and new buildings. The amendment is proposed because there appears to be doubts as to whether the provision covers both existing buildings and new buildings. This provision provides for rules to be laid down in the building regulations concerning, inter alia: the installation and use of a building with regard to operational measures. Operational measures are, for example: rules to ensure the functioning of alert facilities and the illumination of escape routes. These rules concern both the current and future use of a building. The rules therefore apply regardless of when the building has been put into service. The proposed amendment clarifies that the current provision of the Building Act that rules on operational measures can be laid down applies both to existing and new settlements. The proposed amendment will not lead to a change in practice, as the provision is already being applied in this way today. With those words, thank you. And then, in response to the question put by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I would just like to say that, as far as I am aware, this does not include private tools for which a question has been asked. And I will answer that more fully. And then I even got a salute from behind of the silver paper hats out in the Palace Square. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130939	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201106130956	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 November 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
