ParlaMint-DK_20200528100001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528100011	There are three proposals for adoption, and first we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. V 71 by Astrid Carøe (SF), Kasper Sand Kjær (S) and Katrine Robsøe (RV). Begin the vote. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 40 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 70 by Ulla Tørnæ (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and proposals for adoption No. V 72 of Eva Flyvholm (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528100559	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528100621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101011	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101033	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister of Justice as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101045	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101052	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 79 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and 1 (EL) (by mistake)), against 18 (RV, EL, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101420	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101434	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 78 (S, V, DF, SF, KF and NB), against voting 19 (RV, EL, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101751	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528101807	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 70 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 26 (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102144	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102205	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102522	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102540	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Has everyone who wishes to vote voted? Everyone does. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102932	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528102948	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 71 (S, V, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 25 (DF, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528103310	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528103328	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Has everyone who wishes to take part in the vote voted? The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 89 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA, ALT and 1 (EL) (by mistake)) voted against 0, abstentions 7 (EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528103646	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528103709	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104022	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104041	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104357	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104419	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 0, abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104726	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104813	The debate is open, and welcome to the Socialist rapporteur Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528104819	Thank you. The re-opening of Denmark is in full swing: the students have returned to the schools; we can again enjoy a cup of coffee or a beer at the café; the museums can again look up the doors; and today the Superliga starts. However, we must not forget that we are still in the midst of a serious health crisis, because the corona has not disappeared and it can flare up again with major consequences for both health and the economy. That is why we still have to do everything we can to prevent the emergence of new chains of infection. It is therefore also a key element of the reopening strategy to isolate those who are being infected so that we prevent them from infecting others and from creating new chains of infection. In most cases it can happen at home, fortunately, but there are citizens who cannot be isolated at home on the advice of the Danish Health Service; it may be because they live in very small apartments with people in a particular risk group, so that we would risk that isolation led to others in the household being infected. Therefore, those people must be offered an alternative to home isolation, and with today's legislative proposal we follow up on the reopening agreement and ensure citizens an opportunity to go into voluntary isolation. With this bill, the Minister for Health and the Elderly will be empowered to impose requirements on municipalities and regions to provide facilities where the infected can be isolated, and we will give the Minister for Health the authority to lay down detailed rules on the obligations of municipalities and regions, among other things. on target audience, visitation, guidelines for all facilities and also on self-payment. The Minister for Health and the Elderly will then, in the specific situation, lay down rules that municipalities should offer the possibility of isolation to citizens who are infected with covid-19 and who cannot stay at home without exposing others to infection. For example, it may be by concluding agreements with hotels, hostels, holiday resorts or the like. Social democracy can, of course, support the bill, and we see it as an important element in the reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105033	Thank you. As you know, the Left, like all the other parties, was also included in the agreement on the plan for the reopening of Denmark, which the parties of the Danish Parliament and the government signed some time ago, and in principle the Left also supports the bill that we are discussing right now. In principle, I should like to return to the point. For the proposed amendment to the Health Act gives the Minister for Health and the Elderly the power to impose on regions and municipalities the obligation to provide facilities, and this could, for example, be the case. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer in the Member States has not been accepted by the Commission. Although we in the Left are concerned about delegating further competences to the government and so it has nothing to do with the Minister of Health as a person, we are of the opinion that it is basically a right idea to self-isolate, and that helping to do so is a way forward in the effort to reopen Denmark as soon as possible. That is why we also support the general draft law and its intentions, but we also regard it as a duty for every possible opposition, including in this case ourselves, to point out the ambiguity and inconvenience that may exist in any legislative proposal, including this one. This is what we intend to do during the committee work. We want to see, among other things. In the course of the committee's work, a number of uncertainties, including the question of competence between regions and municipalities, have been put to the test, as we see it. We do not think this is quite clearly stated in granite in the legislative text itself and, in particular, not in the comments. We would like a little more secure ground under our feet when it comes to financial compensation for regions and municipalities. We think that the thing about user charges is a rather strange concept that we can look forward to. What does this really consist of, and how will the incentives be reversed if it is the case that you start charging users for voluntary isolation? Then we also basically want a justification for why it is the infected who have to be isolated outside the home. That could make a lot of sense. But why can it not also be relatives of infected people who are given the opportunity to be isolated? One could perhaps imagine the hypothetical situation that the person who was infected and was a little uncertain in his life at this time, perhaps most needed to be at home, so it was the family that was isolated in a hotel or facility. We'd like to get a little bored. So we can really ask a fundamental question: what is the real need for this legislation right now? What are we looking into? Well, right now, those who are infected are the harder and harder to recover. And then perhaps there is a third or fourth fundamental question that we ask ourselves: why should this take the form of powers? In other words, there would be nothing in the proposal, including for example. the question of which criteria can be self-insulated, which was something that Parliament's parties had to discuss before taking initiatives and starting to impose everything on regions and municipalities? In fact, we would have liked to have a little bit of that in committee. I would like to conclude by saying that the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection has set an extremely ambitious timetable with very, very short deadlines for the examination of this legislative proposal by the committee. There's, for example, there's... Time limit for questions when we meet right here after this first reading. And, of course, we agree with what we have been involved in deciding in the Committee on Health, but that is a little at the request of the Ministry and the Minister, I suppose one can say in a calm manner. And if we weren't just in this coronatid, I would say that I hope we can shake hands with each other that this also means that the Ministry provides full answers to the questions we ask. We have received the consultation material this morning and, as we get through it, it is likely that it will also give rise to some more questions. I also expect that we will be able to get a full answer before the third reading of this bill. So this obviously requires the Folketing, but I also think it requires the Minister and the Ministry to provide full answers to the questions and to some extent respond to the concerns we have about this bill and, in particular, the matter of matter in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105549	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105558	Thank you very much. As far as the proposal is concerned, the previous rapporteurs have told us what it is essentially about. I can only say that it is really nice to have listened to what I was standing up here just over two months ago asking whether we could not provide hotel facilities or anything else for some of the infected or their family or the staff out there. The only problem is that this legislation is two months late. It's going well. Infecting pressure has been reduced. In many municipalities we have zero new infected and newly hospitalized. So it's kind of on the backside that this legislation is coming. Having said that, we are surprised that when you put it forward, you will once again authorise the Minister for Health and the elderly to carry out a great many things in the proposal, including criteria for visitation, proposed accommodation facilities, target groups, guidelines, etc. etc. So once again, as rapporteurs, we have to say yes to a bill that the government is making. This is not something that has been agreed and where we have been told in the Danish People's Party: it was a very good idea to vote through this, but you have to vote through it, and then we authorise and give more power to a health minister. This is something we would like to bore out in relation to the questions we can ask in committee. We can see legislation that can be abused in the future in relation to which minister sits, in terms of who has a state of health, so that accommodation can be provided, if a minister says so. So that is something we will be asking when we are dealing with the committee and then we will have to see if it is a proposal that we can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105746	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528105801	Thank you very much. Here we are again with another emergency law in the name of the corona. Two months ago, I received an email from a professor of epidemiology. He was very concerned about the citizens of the country who were infected with corona and who we asked to isolate at home but who did not have the facilities for it. Unfortunately, it is well known that there are often more serious illnesses and more complications if sick people are in small homes with several other people. At the same time, it is obvious that a sick person is infecting healthy residents in the home if you cannot isolate yourself completely from them. It is even more important, of course, if the infected lives with people from the risk groups. Because it is by no means everyone who has an extra wing in the home or an extra floor in the house or access to a summer house where the sick person can isolate himself. For a lot of people that would be practically impossible, it would certainly be at home with me. I have raised the matter with the Minister on several occasions, just as several of my fellow rapporteurs and several news media have taken an interest in the problem. For what can we do to help those whom we as a society ask to isolate ourselves in order to contain the infection? We are now in the process of finding a solution to this, and thank you very much for that, Minister. It seems the right solution to look at how municipalities and regions can help to provide facilities where, as a citizen, they can voluntarily be accommodated during an epidemic, such as: The one we're experiencing right now. There are, among other things: A number of hotels and holiday resorts are empty, so the square is out there. This bill is therefore an important part of ensuring a sound reopening of Denmark. There are, however, a number of things that I, like my fellow rapporteurs who have been standing up here in the past, need to clarify. What about the staff who are supposed to be at work for the functioning of the facilities? What about cleaning? What about economics? All this and much more I look forward to discussing in committee, but in the Radical Left we are very positive about the initiative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110015	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for Health for bringing forward the bill, which is intended to give municipalities and regions the legal basis to ensure the provision of isolation to citizens who are infected with corona. There are probably others other than me who can remember back to the end of February, when a TV 2 employee had just come home from skiing and was tested positive for corona as the first registered infected Dane, and how both the employee and colleagues were isolated in summer homes for 14 days in order to stop the infection chain. It was also at the time when the Danish Health Authority still thought that an effective containment of infection was a solution that could save Denmark from the large decommissionings. I was able to think for myself that it was fortunate that there were so many available summer houses, which made it possible to isolate the infection chains effectively. My cousin didn't have that option when she got symptoms and wasn't supposed to infect her bone marrow transplanted husband. They do not have a cottage that can be used for isolation, and despite the strenuous attempts at self isolation, the infection also affected the rest of the household. Fortunately, this went well, but the situation was extremely critical. Indeed, few citizens have the opportunity to be effectively isolated from the remaining family, and the more people living under the same roof, the greater the risk of the rest of the family becoming infected, and then we have the trouble. The rest of the family may be school children or employees who have to move into society and who risk infecting others before they themselves discover that they are also infected. Isolation opportunities for citizens with infection are therefore a crucial, important offer if we are also to be able to continue to contain infection in the near future, and we must do so. I personally believe that the vast majority of citizens will continue to use their own holiday home if that is an option. The proposal is, therefore, probably most targeted by citizens who do not have those opportunities. That is all the more important for SF that all citizens, regardless of their social background, can afford to accept the offer. I would therefore also like to ask for an answer before the second reading as to whether we can set a ceiling on self-payment for catering. Because although it may seem reasonable to pay for the food you eat yourself, we must ensure that that particular cost does not prevent citizens from seeking isolation, and that is precisely a cost which will typically be greater than if it were the case that you were part of a family where you shared the cost of the diet. This morning we received consultation answers from relevant parties, and I also believe that there are grounds for further clarification from, among others, a few comments. the municipalities and the regions. Firstly, the proposal must not mean that municipalities and regions are forced to enter into agreements with private individuals, for example. hotels. It would make very good sense for municipalities and regions themselves to assess where isolation facilities might be possible, and this could, for example, be possible. be a nursing home during conversion, which therefore had some vacant dwellings, or an empty hospital department which can be used conveniently. In addition, I also think that both municipalities and regions have a point in that an urgent draft law on isolation facilities for coronas infected citizens makes sense, but that solutions for the future and for other situations where isolation facilities will need to be provided might need to be given more detailed treatment. But the SF is very positive about creating isolation possibilities in any case, and that is why, of course, we will also hope that we can make those small corrections that we are asking for to be resolved from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110407	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110415	Thank you for that, President. The Corona epidemic has made it clear that it has consequences when the health service is subjected to one efficiency and rationalization exercise after another. It has implications for staff, it has consequences for preparedness, for capacity and for robustness. This has meant that everything that has not been able to benefit the economic bottom line in the short term has been cut away for years. The short-term thinking we then pay in return the price for now. This has had major consequences for our talented and dedicated health and care staff who have delivered a unique effort. That is why in the Enhedslisten we have also had a strong focus on ensuring security of supply for protective equipment, for example. through public production, but also through a clear test strategy, a test strategy that ensures both testing of front personnel, vulnerable and vulnerable groups as well as relatives, but also representative testing of the population, so that we can keep up with the current development of infectious pressure and spread of infection. This is a demand which the government has reasonably met, and I would like to sign for it. Of course, an essential part of the test strategy is infection detection and isolation, and this is, as I said, the latter element, isolation, which is the subject of the draft law today. Because the guidelines recommend that if you have been found to be infected, you have to go to home isolation to break the infection chains and prevent the infection from being carried on. But there is a world of difference between living in a large house with several rooms and sanitary conditions that ensures that you can isolate yourself in the home if you live together, compared to living together in a small apartment. There may be citizens who either do not have housing conditions or even have no accommodation at all who cannot be home-insulated. And it is well known that when pandemics hit, they hit socially wrong; it is with the tightest housing conditions and those that are most challenged on the economy, jobs and mobility, which are the ones that are hit hardest by the epidemic, and that is where the spread of infection is greatest. That is why, as a society, we also have a special obligation to try to minimise the social inequality in health, which is otherwise exacerbated by a pandemic. The draft law also states that municipalities and regions must, of course, be compensated for the additional costs incurred. Facilities can be found in hostels, holiday resorts and hotels that have available capacity during the epidemic, and this can also help to help them. Or, of course, it must be the case that municipalities and regions can set up facilities themselves together. It is our wish that the offer should be aimed both at citizens who do not have facilities to be home-insulate in a safe way and where there may be special consideration to take, and also at those citizens who are vulnerable citizens at home at risk. Of course, it should be obvious that the offer applies to all citizens staying in Denmark. But overall, the Enhedslisten supports the bill and we look forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110751	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110802	Thank you for that, President. In the fight to stop and limit covid-19, it is incredibly important that infected people are isolated either at home or, if that is not possible, somewhere else. The draft law we are discussing here ensures that suitable facilities will be available for those who cannot be home-insulated. Of course, in the Conservative People's Party we support the aim of the proposal, but at committee reading we also need to clarify who is actually responsible. After all, I read that regions and municipalities are mentioned in a wide sense, without it being quite clear who is responsible. It is also unclear how long the obligation must be maintained. However, we will of course discuss the various loose ends of the committee so that we can set up the facilities as soon as possible and limited and preferably eradicated covid-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110903	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110911	Thank you. Basically, we are positive. There are, as the other rapporteurs have said, a few loose ends, but I am sure that we will sort them out. One can say that this is probably a proposal that may, hopefully, never, we must hope, come into operation so that we do not look into another wave. I do not think that is relevant now; it can be dealt with virtually as it is now. But I think it is a good proposal and we will be supporting it in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110938	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528110947	Thank you. We have been wondering for a long time that we in Denmark were not as offensive as we could be when it came to going from a mitigation strategy back to an effective containment strategy. If you want to use the words of the covid-19 fluencerer Tomas Pueyo, then it is so that after we have used the hammer quite effectively in Denmark, we have danced relatively heavy and rhythmically. But better late than never: Danish testing capacity is on its way up, and significant improvements have been made when it comes to tracking. What is missing now is isolation, because the prerequisite for us to be able to open up society as much as possible is that we take advantage of this hammer and dance strategy that we are about to embark on. Something has been missing from the strategy: isolation facilities for people who have not been able to isolate themselves at home. Something is being done about that now. We support that, which is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111100	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. These were all the rapporteurs of the parties, and I welcome them to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111118	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the first reading here, who are based on the fact that on 7 May all the parties of the Danish Parliament were united in an agreement on a plan for the reopening of Denmark. The agreement states, among other things, that the reopening of Denmark is based on an element of isolation of people infected with covid-19, and adequate isolation, together with an effective test strategy and comprehensive and effective detection, is a key element in a sound and safe re-opening of society. After all, the bill has come forward because we have to recognise that not all citizens of this country have equal opportunities to isolate themselves at home. That is why I should like to express my thanks for the constructive approach and also, at this stage, broad support for this proposal to amend the Health Act. I have also taken note of the fundamental and factual issues and comments that have been under way, and I also look forward to the work of the committee. But I think that at a time when, of course, there must be and there is plenty of political debate, including about the current situation with the epidemic, it is good to see a Parliament that can be constructive and in the work clothes and continue to deal with this in a way that focuses on the problem and on resolving the problem. When this proposal is relevant, is it quite right of those who said: Well, could it have been good that we had had it from the start of the • could it be nice that we had had this proposal already when the epidemic hit Denmark? Well, it could be. You just have to be honest and say that. And that is one of the reasons why the draft law has been drawn up in this way, i.e. as a permanent amendment, not because the municipalities and regions have to have permanent facilities ready, because it makes no sense, nor is it what is in the proposal, but a permanent change, so that in a different situation, a similar situation or something we cannot foresee today, we have setup ready. And the more setup that's ready, the faster you can move out and make use of this tool. And one of the lessons we have learned from many lessons from the covid-19 situation is that you can't prepare for everything, you can't know everything, but that the better prepared you are, the more chance you have of acting quickly. And speed trumps all speed trumps everything, also here. What we have seen with the covid-19 is that this disease, like so many other diseases, and we are learning more and more about that in these weeks, too, has a social inequality, a social battle side. We also know, because it is well documented, and the Parliamentary Health Committee knows, at least, that there is already widespread social inequality in relation to many of the people who are at risk of being infected with covid-19. This applies to people with a chronic disease, which is a particular risk group. We know here that there is widespread social inequality in relation to a large proportion of those people. And we have a special obligation to take care of the many citizens with chronic diseases where it can be fatal to be infected with covid-19. We also have to recognise that even isolation in your own home naturally requires physical space, you may not have, if you are a student living in a dorm or in a community of living, or are a family for children in a small apartment etc. And this bill will enable municipalities, in cooperation with hotels, holiday resorts and others, in specific cases of covid-19, to set up these isolation facilities which will ensure citizens who, for various reasons, cannot maintain sufficient self-isolation in the home, a real opportunity for even isolation in other environments. This is an important step towards eliminating the spread of infection and, at the same time, helping those who may be severely affected by the epidemic in progress. The specific questions that have been asked can be taken into account in the work of the committee and I look forward to answering them. And to those of you who have noted that this is also an urgent procedure, I would say that there is much more time now than there was at the beginning of the epidemic, so there is time for consultation and good time to read them, etc., but I also recognise the working pressure that Members of Parliament are working under and under which the committee is working. And we will do our utmost by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly to answer all the questions raised about this in detail and in detail. But I want to say a receipt and a thank you for working together on this measure, which we really hope will not be very much in use because every day we see the infection figures, and we hope and work all we can to continue with low levels of infection. One of the good questions that was raised is: how much will this be used? And to that I would say that we simply do not know. We cannot give a definitive answer to that now, but we can do everything we can to ensure that it does not become a tool that needs much use. But it is very, very important to have the tool, because if it is to be used much, then we must have it, and then we must be able to put in and stop the infection chains everywhere, including those who have housing conditions where it is difficult to self-insulate themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111703	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111707	I simply think that things have come out of the minister's ministry where, to be honest, the quality of the law has been higher than what we are seeing here. I think it is a matter of haste, and that is what the Minister himself says. I'm worried about that. One thing is in relation to the current situation, but I am a little concerned about the future. I think that somehow we will have to deal with what, if I may say so, is post-corona, that is, after the corona crisis. For example, you have... some comments in the draft law on self-insulation in the event of major accidents. It is not quite clear to me why there is a need for self-isolation in the case of major accidents. Do you infect because you have been involved in a major accident, or what is the reason for it? Could the Minister imagine that if we are to get through this with the speed we have now, including with the forward-looking approach, we are doing what we did with the epidemic law, and at some point in the autumn, after the summer break, are re-examining this? I do not think that quality is very high.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111815	I am not going to give a final answer to that question now, but let us try to assess it in committee. It may be a little difficult to know exactly what is in mind, and a retreatment may be a little difficult. But at least I'm open to looking at how we can follow this. It is true that such a question of why it would be appropriate to self-insulate ourselves in the event of an accident. It depends entirely on what kind of an accident it is and what it will be. But I think, as I said, as I started by saying, some of the learning here is that if you think we can know everything in advance, you're wrong. But what is important is that there are some tools, and this tool is a tool that allows citizens to isolate themselves when it is deemed necessary for health, and it is therefore a tool that will only be used if there are some arguments for it and where it makes sense to self-insulate itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111920	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111921	I agree with the Minister, but it just seems that everything has been ripped off the shelves to justify the bill. You can do that, but you just need to justify why you do it. I think that is missing here. That is why I am a little concerned about what is going on in the future. Then I would just like to ask one more question: why should it all be in a power? Can the Minister not imagine that there is something that can be negotiated in the Folketing? Why, for example, do we have to do this? What concerns the criteria for self-insulating is an authorisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528111957	When the bill is dealt with thirdly I think that the timetable for the committee is last day before Parliament's summer holidays and if it is adopted, as it suggests at the moment on the reports from the parties, it will be followed up with an authorisation which, of course, addresses the specific issue of the covid-19 situation. Obviously, that's what we're addressing. There might be others, and that's what we're talking about, things on the other side of the covid-19, where it's also relevant, and there it'll be good to have this tool, and then you'll be able to follow up with a quick announcement, which is a enforcement of the law, where it can then be relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112040	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112042	Would it be so awful if in the future we were to find ourselves in a situation where we saw that there was a state of health that made us need legislation • that the parties had to be called so that we could agree on how to make criteria and search people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112101	No, that wouldn't be awful. So, during the covid-19, we ourselves have had a follow-up group which has received hundreds of briefings and has also participated in an incredibly large number of meetings, in direct meetings with our experts, agencies and so on. So, of course, there will be perfect consultation. I think it would be unwise for us here in the Danish Parliament to commit a legislative proposal that there should be some kind of right of veto for its implementation. I think that would be unwise, because we cannot predict what kind of situation we are going to find ourselves in. Just to stress: this bill does not in any way restrict citizens' freedom. It is based on voluntaryness, it is a voluntary offer to be self-insulate if one's own home does not live up to this. That offer does not really exist today, and that is what we are putting in. So that will be my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112208	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112210	The minister said it himself. There has been a covid-19 follow-up group which was informed by the Minister, and that is exactly what we want to do away with, so that we are involved in the decisions that are being taken in the future. Because we've been involved in making some urgent legislation on some things, but it's the government that decides for itself what it's going to contain and that's what we want to do up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112234	After all, every party is free to see it. I just have to stress one very, very central thing, namely that one of the most important lessons from the covid-19 is that speed means everything. It is my firm belief that if we had waited 5, 6, 7 days, perhaps less, for the interventions, for the closure of society, then we would have had a risk, yes, there is no point sitting around laughing at it, because it was the ECDC's reports that said that infection chains, as in northern Italy, were high risk of getting in Denmark. I believe that any government in office must take the responsibility of acting in relation to it at all times, and then we must stand up to the democratic objective of the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112319	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112321	Thank you. I would like to say at the outset that I also see a great many variations in problems that I do not think can be legislated for, but I have noted that the proposal is, after all, a voluntary offer, that is to say an offer to people who cannot isolate themselves in any other way, but that price will also be decisive. It is just to follow up on what I said in my rapporteur's speech: could you imagine some kind of ceiling on catering, which makes people dare to accept such an offer without risking a very large bill afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112406	We have answered in the consultation note, but I recognise that it has just come out this morning, that is the way it is, and that is that there will be an offer of catering where there will probably be some price ceilings or how to define it, but it will not be a coercion whether you should use that offer. You can also order takeaway or something else, if you prefer it or how you prefer it, and if it is a holiday center, you might be able to cook your own food and then bring ingredients and other things. How it is done in concrete terms may not be appropriate for us here in Parliament to assess this, because I think it is wise to do it locally close to the facilities which should then be made available. But I agree with the principle. If this is going to be an offer to people, especially people who live small and who may have poor or small housing conditions because of social conditions, then it is not going to be easy to throw a big bill on their heads, because then they will not accept that offer, and then we will be on the same page. I think that's a good point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112513	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112514	You could lean on what you know from the Service Act. I just think it is important to emphasise that this is not an offer of a free holiday, but a health offer which should hit some of the health problems that we do not get into with the legislation as we know it today, because something extraordinary is needed in an extraordinary situation, and there are some ceilings on catering when it comes to being searched for something that is needed for health reasons. So it was really an attempt to lure the Minister into mentioning a ceiling that might be leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112551	Let's take a look at it. Let's take a look at that ceiling. I don't know the current tariff on that ceiling. I am in favour of the principles, and I think it is a very good principle to get the lift here, but it must also work smoothly, which means that it is not the older kitchens of the municipalities that will have to run out with food to those hotels if it is, because it is probably impossible to get it going, so you have to find out how it can be done. But I think a ceiling is a good idea, and so, of course, no compulsion to accept that offer, because you should also have the opportunity to do something else. I think these are the two principles we must lean on. I think that is a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112630	Thank you very much to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112644	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528112706	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left proposes to reinstate the previous rule of the law, so that young foreigners born and raised in Denmark again have easy access to Danish citizenship. The proposal will go back to the previous legal situation in which young foreigners born in Denmark could become Danish citizens simply by making a statement. We in the government cannot support the proposal. In our view, the previous access to the declaration was too lenient. There were, for example: no training or character requirements were made for persons aged between 18 and 19. Furthermore, it was not included in the scheme that PET, the Police Intelligence Service, had to assess whether young foreigners could be a threat to the security of the country, nor was it a requirement for those persons to have a permanent residence permit in order to apply. It is the government's view that it is reasonable that Danish citizenship can be sought on the basis of pre-established clear criteria which support demands for Danish knowledge, social understanding, support for democracy and self-reliance, as well as demands for crime. The rules on the granting of citizenship are based on a very broad political agreement, and part of this agreement is that the rules on the granting of citizenship also apply to this group of young people. It is our assessment and opinion that for this group, PET should assess whether they could be a threat to the security of the country, just as it is the government's view that young people should have a permanent residence permit. The current rules already take account to a certain extent of young people born and raised in Denmark. Today, if you have completed the 9th or 10th grade of primary school with a total average grade of 02, that is to say you have passed, you meet the language requirement, and you do not have to document your Danish knowledge in addition. In addition, there is also a more lenient residence requirement for people who have entered Denmark before reaching the age of 15, including for those who were born here. The rules on citizenship, as we see it, constitute one of the cornerstones of Danish immigration policy and have the support of a large majority of the Folketing, and I think we have found a good balance in the current rules. We therefore have no plan to change the conditions for becoming a Danish citizen. I also take the view that the granting of Danish citizenship is a declaration of trust, and I often try to put myself in the place of those people who need to apply these rules: how would I feel? I personally would not regard it as either dismissive or discriminatory if I were to live, for example. in Portugal and my child, who was born and raised in Portugal, had to meet certain requirements in order to obtain Portuguese citizenship. And now that I feel this way myself, I think it is also right that we make the same demands on young people who live here in Denmark and who want Danish citizenship. That is our argument for not being able to support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113012	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur of the authors of the proposal. It's sir. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113017	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I note, of course, that the Minister cannot support the proposal adopted by the Social Democrats and the Radical Left at the time and which was thrown out, cancelled, by the Left subsequently. What is my question to the Minister quite specifically is: does the Minister believe that it is necessary for all young people to go through a system where they have to be controlled by PET? Is it really the Minister's view that it is necessary for young people who are actively participating in our society who are going on an education; who have shown that they can go on an education; who may even have worked alongside it; often take care of a number of active things in the family; despite the fact that they have actually shown that they are active Danish citizens and have done daily work in the context of school work, etc., are in a situation where they have to be controlled by PET in order to be allowed to become Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113120	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113121	That's right. We do not want to reinstate this arrangement, even if it was reinstated after the parliamentary elections in 2011. And this is really a very good indication that we want to stick to strict immigration policy, including that we should not be able to declare ourselves a citizen without meeting the general conditions. Of course, not all young people should be checked by the intelligence services, but we think it is reasonable that all applicants for citizenship should be checked. We have seen with the discussion about foreign fighters that if people first acquire Danish citizenship, we cannot deny them entry into Danish society. And that is why I think it is quite reasonable that we should be on our toes when we grant citizenship and are as sure as we can stay at all that these are people who support democracy. Otherwise, we risk creating problems for ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113215	Thank you. The Minister mentions that all young people should not be controlled by PET, but that all those seeking citizenship should be controlled. If that is how you take it, then that means that yes, you can stop seeking citizenship and then you will not be controlled. That is what the Minister is actually saying. If you had to make sure that all young people actively participate in Danish society, become co-players and do not become a parallel society at some point, is it not essential that you ensure that all young people are respected and that they all have Danish citizenship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113250	I've been checked by PET myself before I could become a minister. If you apply to the police school, I also assume there's some sort of checkup of people. There are plenty of posts there, and I feel no less respected by the fact that the authorities have checked what PET knows about me. I mean, it's not an attack on me that someone is investigating whether or not I'm a threat to the security of the state. And the thousands of people seeking Danish citizenship are being checked by PET. I'm guessing 99 percent. of them think it is completely unproblematic and quite fine that, as a state, you look up in a register to just check that it is not a guy who has checked the wrong websites and has the wrong friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113336	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113340	Thank you very much. I think that the three proposals we are going to talk about today reflect the need to convene new negotiations on Danish citizenship. For this proposal is very welcome and I am glad that the Minister is not in favour of it, for it emphasizes precisely that society is evolving and that parties are developing. The Social Democratic Party supported this a few years ago, but now the Social Democratic Party is opposed. In the meantime, we've had a parliamentary election... we've had two. We have a new party in the Folketing; we have some parties that have doubled in size; we have a new government; we have a lot of new members of the Folketing; we have a society that is evolving. In view of all this, is it not time we called for new negotiations on the rules of Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113423	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113423-2	We have no intention of doing so. On the other hand, I will never refuse to discuss any changes to the circular or the legislation that is at the root of it now. After all, we have a meeting in the contract circle which has either been convened or very soon will be convened. At least it will be held next month. If there is a desire from the people in the contract circle for a little more in-depth political negotiations of the rules that apply, then I would urge you to take it up there. Then I will at least go into the box of reflection, as to whether I think there is a basis for real negotiations or whether it is more a question of making some adjustments in the corners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113509	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113509-2	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister is showing at least some kind of goodwill. Now we have a few proposals here, we are going to debate over the next few hours, so I would actually just bring it up as a natural derivation of the proposals that come here and which show that there are very strong wishes in various parts of the Parliamentary Chamber to have some new rules in the area of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113533	Copy that. I do not regard this as an issue, but as a contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113544	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113547	Thank you. Now I think that the government would be able to maintain a strict foreign policy while at the same time adopting this proposal. For this proposal is simply that some citizens who have been born and raised in Denmark should have the right to become Danish citizens by declaration without having to go through this application procedure, which is in Denmark. Now it is often the case that the very strict rules that have been made are justified in order to obtain Danish citizenship by the fact that people must be able to prove that they are Danish in some way. That is why I just want to hear: does the Minister not think that if you are born and raised here in Denmark, you are Danish and will therefore also have the right to obtain Danish citizenship, of course on the basis of the criteria described here in the motion for a resolution, and such as the legislation was also under the former SR government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113649	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113650	The short answer is no. I wish it were so that people who were born and raised here were naturally Danish, took Denmark to heart, considered themselves Danes more than anything else. But I also think we have to recognise that if you just walk through Danish society and talk to people, unfortunately that is not the case. There are plenty of people who have not made the active decision with their hearts to say that yes, it is my homeland. I feel that I consider myself to be a half-tiopia and a Dane. I myself do not think that I have any less love for my father's country of origin for being a complete full-blood dancer. But I have to admit that when I talk to a lot of young people, they don't quite regard themselves as Danes. That's why I really think it's okay to say that if you want to become a Danish citizen, you have to start by reaching out for it yourself. You can't just declare it and drag it into a vending machine. You're gonna have to reach out for it yourself. It's a good way to prove that you actually want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113756	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113757	This is probably based on a slightly different view of what it means to be Danish. I would basically be of the opinion that if that is the case that you were born and raised in Denmark, have taken your schooling here, you live here, you have not lived in other countries, yes, then you are Danish. I find it hard to see how things are different. Therefore, I just want to hear the Minister what a basic prerequisite it is to say that people who live and are raised in Denmark should not be Danish, and whether it would not really be more conducive to integration, if one could say that that was the prerequisite, namely that when you live in this country, when you are born and raised here, you have gone to school here, yes, then you are Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113838	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113839	There are lots of people who were born and raised in Denmark, who perceive themselves as Danes, and who without discussion are Danes. And they can completely unproblematically pass the birth test and come on to the bill, and the Folketing third processes the bill, and then they have become Danish citizens. This happens without any problems to many people every year. But from there, and then to conclude that there is an automatism in that because you were born and raised here, you are also Dane and that's what this proposal is about. I don't want to go along with that. I think it's perfectly reasonable to say that there is no automatics and that you should search like everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113916	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528113918	It is nice to hear the Minister stand and defend the views of the Danish People's Party, but what has happened? In fact, it was a red government that made sure that this proposal was adopted during the period 2011-2015. Then it was removed again when there was a Left Government supported by the Danish People's Party. We are very, very happy about that. We believe that this is a really, really bad proposal and that it is a bad relaxation in the area of citizenship. But it was a social democratic government that got through that relaxation and now the Minister is saying something quite different. What happened there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114005	If you take the last 20 years of foreign policy in Denmark, there have been a number of proposals that have only been implemented, then have been removed, then implemented and then removed. This specific proposal did not exist in the '00s. It was there from 2011-2015, then it was removed from 2015-2019, and now we have the discussion about whether it should be reinstated from 2019 until elections next time. But even though the Danish Parliament has swung back and forth, there has always been support in the population for at least my view that one should be able to apply to become a Danish citizen and that it is not something that should happen per year. automatic. This can also be said of many other situations in the field of foreigners, where I believe that the population has been much more stable for a long time than the majority of the people have. For us, it is important to say that what is our own party's policy and which we regard as something that is widely supported by the Folketing and the people, there is no reason to pursue zigzag course. We might as well just keep a steady course there, including applying to become a Danish citizen, and that is not something that happens per year. automatic, just because you were born here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114111	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114112	I am glad that the Social Democratic Party has ended up where it is now. It is fine that the Social Democratic Party takes over the views of the Danish People's Party. We're only happy about that. But the Minister does not talk about it, because it is a zigzag course, and that is what I would like to make a statement on. But it is fine that the Social Democrats have almost ended up in the right place. Now we just have a long list of other austerity measures that we would also like to see introduced, and I look forward to the Social Democrats taking on board our views in the other areas where we think it is necessary to tighten up when it comes to citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114150	I do not know whether we have taken over the views of the Danish People's Party altogether. For example: I recall that quite recently we have been standing in the Chamber discussing thoughts, including from the Danish People's Party, that when we grant citizenship, it must be possible to deal with matters separately, depending on whether you come from a Muslim country or not. That is not our view. Our view is that whether you come from a Muslim country or not, you have to meet the same requirements in order to become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114220	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114223	Thank you. In the alternative, we believe that the more a country wants to have one, the more you feel as part of that country. Does the Minister not think that it could have the effect for many, that if you get citizenship, you just get to feel proper Danish, you feel that you have ties, roots, and that, therefore, it could actually help to get more people out of such a national weightless situation and to think: this country is showing me confidence; now I want to show this country's trust, and I feel like a part of it because I can now become a citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114306	I would like to start by expressing a very precise concept, namely the concept of national weightlessness, which I would like to take up and then answer the question, so that in reality it is also a question of what kind of motivation people have. Because I believe that by making clear and clear demands that people are able to live up to, people are motivated to get up on their toes and to exert themselves. I think it's more motivating than saying, "Here's the cake in advance, and we'd like to ask you to run a marathon race." I don't think we should use citizenship as a motivation to say: would you please be integrated? We must do the opposite: we must ask people to be integrated, and then they must have citizenship as a gain for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114347	Then there are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114410	In the Social Democratic Party we think it is reasonable that high demands are made on people who want to become Danish citizens. Being in Denmark alone for 12 years is not in itself the same as becoming Danish. I wouldn't have been a Vietnamese for 12 years either. If your parents are foreign and you have grown up in an environment that is more marked by traditions and customs from another country, then it is not certain that your identity is Danish. The fact that we need to discuss it at all, I think, is due to the fact that there is a widespread misunderstanding on the left in terms of value policy, which creates an underlying false premise for the whole discussion, namely the unspoken premise that Danish citizenship is finer and better for people to have than other citizenships they may possess. Alternatively, we would probably not be so concerned about turning a lot of people who have citizenship in other countries into Danish citizens without making counterclaims. One citizenship is not finer than the other, but for us as a nation it is crucial that we, who are Danish citizens, also form a real community; a community that is formed by more and more than just that it happens to be a practical measure with a Danish passport when travelling. Many young people with non-western backgrounds are good Danish citizens. They are our friends, acquaintances, family members, colleagues or neighbours, but unfortunately integration is still lagging behind for an excessively large group. Too many people do badly at school; too many are criminals; too many have values that collide with basic democracy understanding. This is reflected in the question of how to look at freedom of expression, religion, equality, homosexuality, etc. And that is also why the proposal by the Radical Left is irresponsible. It is already the case that if young people included in the proposal have a deep desire to become Danish citizens, then they can be relatively easy to do so. They meet with more relaxed requirements, e.g. they must have achieved only an average of 2 at the final exams in Danish in primary school. And the proposal will therefore solve a problem which does not exist at all. If you want to become a Danish citizen, it is quite reasonable that you meet a number of demands and expectations, and that is why the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114610	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114613	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now it's gonna sound like this is just about emotional things, whether you feel one thing or the other. But it is also a question of democratic rights. There, I would personally feel that if I were born and raised in Denmark, I would appreciate the right to vote in a Danish parliamentary election more than I would by being able to have it in a Vietnamese election because my parents came from Vietnam. I guess this is also about the fact that if you were born and raised in a society, you also have the right to influence it, for example. by being able to vote for a parliamentary election. So I guess this is also a proposal to be able to give elementary democratic rights in the country and society where people are born and raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114659	If you have a real desire to have democratic rights, and I believe that is the case, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund is right about the fact that there are many who do, I do not think it is an unreasonable requirement to pass a test of citizenship in order to obtain them, and certainly not when you come from a starting point where both parents have citizenship abroad, and therefore you certainly also have some roots in another country. Then it is quite natural that you should actively make a choice when you are 18 years old. There are relatively easy opportunities to become a Danish citizen for this group. It's easier requirements they meet with. One of the things that makes this debate a little misleading is that it's going to sound like it's almost very difficult for these people to become Danish citizens. That is not the case. Then it is also said so very touching that one was born and raised in Denmark. But nobody says that. According to this proposal, you only have to live 12 years in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114749	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114754	Thank you. I have the impression, when I listen to the rapporteur, that it is all young people you see under one. I am also thinking of the fact that many young people have been able to meet these conditions in the past and will have no difficulty in being controlled by PET or others. What is the challenge here is the respect, recognition or lack of it, which is shown to a person who must be part of our society and a part of our democratic society. It's like pushing them away. It's them. It's for me to see one of the crucial things in this. I know the rapporteur says it is very sensitive. Yes, it is a question of how to integrate young people into our society so as to avoid parallel societies. Is the rapporteur aware that this is a matter of pushing someone over here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114853	I have to look up exactly what you have to say here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, which is why I have to try to wrap it up very nicely. But I offer to send my rapporteur's speech to the questioner afterwards, since the questioner claims that I should cut everyone off. I did exactly the opposite in the speech I made just now. I think that is unacceptable. That it should create parallel societies, that you have to live up to some basic conditions for obtaining citizenship, that's a big thing I don't understand. Does the rapporteur really want to compromise with the basic law in what is being mentioned here about PET approval? It is clear that these are objective criteria that we must use in order to lay down rules from here. We must not have subjective criteria. It will be if there is to be a PET assessment. In other words, the Radical Left, with its proposal, will allow people who are not allowed to check to obtain citizenship without further ado. It's irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114947	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528114948	Thank you. I do not want to comment on what the word irresponsibility is, in return, for a size. What matters to me is that, in this context, we have a group of young people who have made a great deal of effort for society. There is no doubt that there are stingy vessels in all contexts. No one is trying to deny that. However, we have a very large group of young people who we would like to include in our society and who we believe have made a great effort. Their parents have tried to get here and become Danes and made a great effort to do so. There it is, then, that I understand from the rapporteur that we must nevertheless try to control them, check them and do so. Why not just accept that people whose families have lived here for two generations, three generations, perhaps several generations, should naturally be part of Danish society, just as when we came here ourselves? My name is Sjøberg, and my family came here from Sweden at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115042	Thank you. It is from this that it is governed, what one has to say from the speaking chair of the Folketing, so it is not necessary to look it up, but that is why we must, of course, be decent to each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115051	In other words, there is almost doubt as to whether the rapporteur is aware of what kind of proposal the rapporteur has been involved in making, because this has nothing to do with two or three generations. This has something to do with the fact that the questioner can easily turn a person who has reached the age of 18 and who has spent 12 years physically in Denmark into a Danish citizen, despite the fact that he already has very lenient conditions to become a Danish citizen. I don't know where this will end if the questioner gets power as he's been watching. You could also stand by the Stork Fountain and then hand it out to people who came by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115127	Thank you. And then I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Peder Hvelplund a comment because he did not get it as no. 2, but it was because it wasn't pressed in. So I just have to remind you, because it's a lot easier from up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115136	So I would just like to say, for the record, that I pressed in immediately afterwards, and it also has a bright green all the time that is fair enough. But it is just to be absolutely sure that we are talking about the same resolution, because the motion for a resolution here makes it clear that we must be born in Denmark. It says in the motion for a resolution, and it also says in the comments, that, in addition to the demand that the young person be born in Denmark, some other demands remain. So this is about young people born in Denmark. And then it is true that they must have stayed at least 12 years here and have a permanent residence, but it is therefore a prerequisite that you are born in Denmark. What I just want to ask the rapporteur is that it will be the case, when the rules are as they are today, that it is only after the age of 18 that you have to apply for a birth certificate, and after all, there is still a time of a couple of years. Would it not be very reasonable for these citizens who were born in Denmark and raised in Denmark to be able to obtain their citizenship immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115235	No, and there is nothing to misunderstand here, by the way. Well, what was the case before was as it was mentioned that there were several generations. It is true that it is a matter of being born in Denmark, but that one is born of foreign parents, i.e. people who have citizenship in another country, and at the same time parents who have not chosen to become Danish citizens during the time they have been in Denmark and where they have raised a child for 18 years where they could have come to the bill as a second person and thus become a Danish citizen. And that again is an indication that it may well be that there is still an identity and cultural affiliation. And peace be with it, because there is nothing to prevent foreign citizens from living in Denmark; that is not the problem, but that is not what we are discussing. But that doesn't mean that you don't. It is essential that the children of the families should become Danish citizens if their affiliation is actually to another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115320	Thank you. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115324	I think that the rapporteur will be somewhat harsh in rhetoric. So, after all, this is a proposal made by the Socialists themselves a few years ago, and now it sounds almost as if it is totally irresponsible to have the same intentions and that we are practically distributing citizenship at the Stork Fountain. I really think that was a fine and quiet way in which the Minister explained this, although I disagree politically. In other words, can the rapporteur not acknowledge that one can also take the view that giving citizenship to people who are believed to have earned it and who have been born in this country could also be a way, like giving them the opportunity to feel Danish and an opportunity to show that society recognises people and that it might also give them greater responsibility and a greater desire to be part of Denmark instead of hanging such a little in a national vacuum?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115430	Well, I can acknowledge all kinds of attitudes, because we live in a free country where people have to think exactly what they want. They must also do so in the parliamentary group of the Alternative. However, the fact that the Social Democratic Party has moved on this issue does not prevent you from taking a position on this issue, and I strongly oppose the proposal put forward by the Radical Left. And I think it's mixing things up to make that a matter of pushing people into parallel societies, and what do I know? Well, that's a weird comparison to make. If you are a German married couple who has raised a child in Denmark and if the child then, at the age of 18, has to take a citizenship test if he or she feels that he or she will now have his or her affiliation to Denmark in the future by being a Danish citizen, then he or she does not suffer for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115513	Thank you. There is no further comment to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, so we move on to Mr. Stoklund. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115534	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left will reinstate the former section 3A of the law on citizenship, which gives foreigners born in Denmark privileged access to Danish citizenship, i.e. citizenship just by a declaration. This is something we have discussed in this Chamber before. We discussed it when the Social Democratic Party did not think it was so insanely irresponsible and therefore introduced the law. Fortunately, we came and removed it. We also discussed it back in 2017, when there was a motion for a resolution from the SF that reminded us a great deal about this. Just as it was then the position of the Left to vote against the proposal, I can already disappoint the proposers and say that we have not changed our position on this. We believe exactly the same as we did back then in the Left, and we cannot vote for this resolution. Then why can't we? Because the proposal brings Denmark back to a foreign policy which is quite different from what we have today, and a worse one than that which we have today, therefore, a foreign policy in which there are not equally high demands on foreigners' Danish knowledge and their knowledge of Danish social conditions. A time when you have to be able to become a national simply by making a statement and, moreover, without being screened by PET as to whether you are a threat to national security is not a time we think you should go back to. This is because the granting of citizenship is of great importance not only for the individual but also for Danish society as a whole. It can have major consequences if the wrong person gets one of our red beet passports in his hand. That is why we are making high demands today when applying for citizenship. This is something that should not and must not be allowed to go to sleep, and it is therefore still the position of the Left that only people who really understand Denmark accept the Danish values and are not a threat to the security of the nation that must be allowed to become Danish citizens. We can only hold on to this if we do not relax the requirements, and therefore the Left cannot support this proposal as I started by saying. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115746	Thank you. There are no comments, and that is why it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528115804	Thank you. The reality today is that you do not automatically become Danish, even if you were born in Denmark, because you can be born of foreign parents who have not wanted to become Danish. Under the Social Democratic Government from 2011-2015, a provision was introduced into the law of citizenship, which meant that foreigners who were born and raised in Denmark automatically acquired Danish citizenship by making a statement to the State Administration. This happened if you were 15 years old and had passed the primary school's exam with the grade 02, but if you couldn't, you had to wait until the age of 18, because if you were able to stay 18 years within the country, you got per. automatic Danish citizenship. Not even an assessment by PET of whether a threat to the security of the empire was to be made. We were against this in the Danish People's Party, but it was nevertheless adopted, and it did so with the votes of the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF. The Blue Government, which came in 2015, removed the possibility again with the support of the Danish People's Party. So, of course, we cannot support a proposal that will restore this relaxation of the granting of citizenship. On the contrary, in the Danish People's Party we want to tighten the rules on the award of Danish citizenship. We have a long list of wishes for this. We want citizenship to be given to people who marry a Dane. We want the number of people who have citizenship to be drastically reduced, which must be a maximum. A thousand a year. We also believe it is necessary for us in the Assembly to know what religious background one has when we are going to vote on who should have citizenship. So there are a large number of things in the area of citizenship that we believe need to be tightened up. Lempelses are the last thing we need today. As long as we can't get the number down to what we want, which should be a maximum. We want to introduce all the hardenings that we can almost come up with. We have some proposals to discuss later today. Of course, we support them. There must be higher language requirements. There must be tough demands on crime. And I'm sure you could also come up with some further hardenings. We believe that the best thing would be to reduce the number, but unfortunately we have not been able to achieve that. We have proposed it many times. We have also proposed that conditional citizenship be granted so that it is deprived of the right to commit crime within a certain period of time. So we have a whole series of sharpenings in this area that we would like to see through. And such a relaxation as the one that the Radical Left is now making is certainly the last thing we need, because it has happened that over the years everything, too many citizenships have been given. It has been given to people who have not shown interest in becoming Danish, who have not become Danish from the heart, and they have the right to vote today and can pass on citizenship to their children. It's a disaster. It is a national disaster that will persecute us for many, many years. That is what we want to do away with. So we do not just want to tighten up the citizenship law; we also want to clear up the chaos created by the excessively lenient immigration policy, including citizenship policy, which has been under way for many years. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120156	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120201	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. [Sound Outfall]...if we do not take care of that we are creating a society with them and us. Specifically, I have been allowed to mention a case with a lecturer and student manager at the University of Copenhagen who has lived here since 2017 and who has a 17-year-old daughter who goes to high school. He has not been able to become a Danish citizen himself because there has been an error; he could not prove that he could be Danish at the Danish Examination 2 level. His daughter, even though she has lived here since 2007 and is active in high school, is going through such a Danish exam, and this also applies to his 9-year-old son. I think it would be right for people of this type, i.e. people who contribute to our society, to have Danish citizenship. Can the rapporteur explain why it is so reprehensible and why society should be divided between them and us? Why divide it up between them and us instead of saying that we are together to create a good society, together?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120312	I do not know whether the questioner has ever visited a ghetto in Denmark. I do not know whether the questioner has ever spoken to people who have lived in Denmark for many years, but who are not Danish at all or whether he is exclusively associated with student lecturers in various colleges. That's what it sounds like. That's the bitter and despairing reality. This has been caused by the rapporteur's party, which has supported an excessively loose and lax policy on foreigners from 1983 onwards until the Danish People's Party helped put an end to it. This has led to people living in the country who are not Danish. And it is clear that it is not this student lecturer and his daughter who is the big problem, but there will probably not be any shreds of them taking a small test that they can easily handle. But we have people in the country who do not want to accept Danish standards, take the Danish language into account, etc. They shouldn't be able to pull a citizenship from a vending machine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120419	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120421	Thank you. I therefore do not think that it is being pulled into a vending machine, as the rapporteur refers to it here. I think it is a question that if you want citizens to be part of our community, you have to give them the opportunity to be part of our community. It is quite obvious that if you feel pushed aside I do not know whether the rapporteur has ever experienced that, but I think that most people have experienced that, after all, you stand in opposition, then you oppose, and then you do not want to be part of a community in any way, but are trying to create another society, a parallel society. So this is also very much about showing young people the respect that lies in it. That's why I'd like to come back to...
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120507	No, that's not possible because the time has passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120510	There are plenty of opportunities to be integrated and become a Danish citizen. You have to reach out, you have to meet some requirements, but it's very, very easy. However, the rapporteur comes with words from the 1990s which show a desperate lack of knowledge of what the reality is today. There have been all the possibilities for a large number of citizens who just did not want to become part of Danish society; who simply do not have the will to do so. That's what we need to stop. Those people should not come to Denmark, and if they have arrived, they should certainly not have citizenship, and their children should not automatically acquire citizenship. We need to stop this development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120554	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120558	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now I could hear the rapporteur saying that the rapporteur's party is willing to vote in favour of any kind of austerity that might be envisaged, and that is why I can be a little doubtful as to whether I can move the rapporteur to take a different view through democratic dialogue. It is doubtful, but it should not stop me from trying. The rapporteur said in his speech that these young people had parents who did not want to become Danish citizens. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that in the Committee on the Rights of the Child we also see several cases of exemption for people who simply do not have the possibility of obtaining Danish citizenship. It may be because of ptsd that one has not been able to learn the language; it may be because one has received a speeding ticket or other. In other words, there are plenty of people who want to be Danish citizens but who do not have the opportunity to do so, and this may well be children of some who would like to do so, and in any case it is young people who have been born and raised in Denmark and who have a desire to become Danish citizens, otherwise they would not be asking to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120709	Then it is no problem to take the citizenship test. That is not a problem at all. That is what I think is essential to face: there are plenty of options • you just have to use them. To say that it is an insurmountable obstacle to getting citizenship to take this very, very small citizenship test is therefore grotesque. So even if you are in the situation of being born to parents who have both been unable to take the birth test, you will be able to become a national if you take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120748	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120752	Yes, but it is still gone provided that you then have to go through the process of taking a citizenship test. Now it's not just a small test it's relatively extensive, and there's also a processing time of a few years before you can get it. And that will have consequences for the young people. This means that at the age of 18 you cannot take part in a parliamentary election that your peers can do, and it can also mean that you cannot take part in the study trips you are going on if you go on a youth education that your peers can do. And I do not understand what the reason is for us to keep people from being able to feel an equal part of the society in which they were born and raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120831	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120832	You shouldn't keep them from feeling it. I really think people should be allowed to feel it, but they just have to do something to be allowed to have that feeling, because if you haven't done anything, you shouldn't have that feeling either. You really have to do something to become a Dane, and if you cannot show in any way that you have done so, then you should not have thrown a citizenship into your neck. I do not think it makes sense to give voting rights to people of whom you do not know anything. They are born of foreign parents, we do not know if they speak Danish, and we do not know whether they know anything about Danish social relations. It's not okay. I think it is so reasonable that one should of course take the test, which is very easy to take. And it is simply not true that it is difficult to take there is a small book in which all the answers except a few are in, so it is available too far, by far most and not very difficult. But of course that requires showing an interest and a will in order to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120932	Thank you. There's no more questioners. Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, who has divided his speech, so he has 5 minutes now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528120944	Thank you for the floor and thank you for taking up this matter. As paragraph 1, it can be said that it is more than just going through such a small, thin book to become a Danish citizen. The Radical Left has put forward this proposal to get the government moving as soon as possible to look at the possibility of facilitating Danish citizenship if you are born and raised in Denmark. We have tabled this motion for a resolution in order to require the government to reinstate the former section 3 A. It offered Danish citizenship to young people who were born and raised in Denmark by declaration when they passed the elementary school's graduation or when they reached the age of 18. The only other requirement was that they should at the same time stay out of serious crime, and that is, of course, important. This possibility, this legal clause 3 A, was unfortunately abolished in 2016 by the then majority of the Danish Parliament with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Inger Nøjberg in the lead. Our view in the Radical Left of citizenship today is the same as in 2014, when § 3 A. H.C. Andersen was introduced in his day: "In Denmark I was born, there I am at home, there I am messed up, from where my world is going. When you are born and raised in Denmark, you are part of us, you are an accomplished part of Danish society. One is not born in the country that one inherits from one's parents today and does not necessarily have much support for it. You have lived most of your life in Denmark, exactly for at least 12 years, and many do not necessarily know the country to which they should belong, other than through their parents. If my parents had moved here from abroad, had born me here and I had lived here almost all my life, then I wouldn't feel like anything but Danish, I must say, and I would feel rootless and disfellowshipped if society didn't recognise it. I think it is sad and a strange society that we have, where you have to pay many thousands of kroner and go through 3 years of application process and be asked cross-checked to be recognised as a Dane. This is a huge mistrust, as we show the many young people who have attended Danish kindergarten, in Danish primary school and at Danish leisure homes and sfos. For many, they know nothing else, and if they have not been ready to be Danes after all that round, I think we should look inward and ask ourselves whether our primary and nursery schools are good enough and whether we are doing it the right way. I believe that citizenship is an important tool for the integration of the many who have come to Denmark, both second and third generation, and in this context we are talking about the first generation. They are recognised with citizenship in their upbringing and are allowed to participate in Danish society on an equal footing with all others. It also means that they have the duties that everyone else has. It gives a sense of belonging that gives a sense of responsibility to the society in which you live. I think we can all remember, from when we were young, that it is precisely when we as young people are shown confidence and recognised that we grow most as people. That is why we in the Radical Left believe that it would be right to give citizenship as a gift, and we recognise that it is a recognition after the 9th grade graduation, or when you turn 18 years of age and become of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121350	Thank you. There are a number of questioners. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121351	Thank you very much. How can the Radical Left have so little respect for Danish citizenship that it will now begin to relax the basic rules in relation to who can get it? This will lead to much more criminal foreigners being able to seek Danish citizenship, much more who do not even meet the basic language requirements, much more who are poorly integrated. Well, it's not because the bar is set very high as it is right now. How can you face up to Danish society and then actually lower the bar to get Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121426	Thank you for the question. I think it is incredible to think of a large proportion of Danish young people as criminals, and when I speak Danish young people, I am thinking of the young people born in Denmark, and in this context also of the immigrants who have come here.I think it is violent, and I think it is unreasonable to regard them as criminals. I have to say. I find it hard to find the word I need here from the platform, but I don't think it's okay. I think it is so much respect for being a Dane, and I think it is to the extent that it is a question of respect for our society that we give the people who live here the opportunity to join Danish society on an equal footing with everyone else. It serves our society best. That's my conviction. It is best for all of us to give those who are in our society a chance to live in our society, to take part in our society, an opportunity to do so on an equal footing. This is the way to create the best possible conditions in a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121523	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121525	Now the rapporteur himself mentions immigrants, and we can see that there is massive over-representation in relation to crime, in relation to poor integration, and we have huge problems with parallel societies. All this is something that is being solved by making tougher demands, and now the Radical Left is going to lower the demands. In other words, it is a direct counter-measure of what at least many blue parties are trying to do, namely to tackle some of the integration problems that exist. How, then, can you just start paddling in the diametrically opposite direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121558	Thank you. I do not think we do that as radicals either. We would point out that we would like to see the immigrants who are in society integrated so that they function in the best possible way in society. In fact, no one knows which group of people commit crime, i.e. whether it is people who have Danish citizenship or not. We don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121620	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121625	Thank you. I note that the radical rapporteur says that if these people have not become Danish, we should look inwards, then it is the fault of Danish society. I have to say here that I strongly disagree with the radical rapporteur. I think we have some excellent kindergartens and some excellent primary schools, and it is certainly not something where we should look inwards if those people have not become Danish, and by the way it is the Radical Left who with this proposal refuse to test whether these people have become Danish. After all, it is the Radical Left that does not want us to take a citizenship test; it is the Radical Left that does not want us to meet the general requirements. So it is the Radical Left that does not want to go into depth with Danishism. Then the rapporteur also says that we must give these people the opportunity to participate on an equal footing with everyone else. But so do these people. Will the rapporteur not just confirm that these people have the opportunity to become Danish citizens, for example? By taking a citizenship test?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121721	Thank you. I want to confirm that these are people we have in our society. They are already here; some of them are about to be thrown out, but most of them are not. I think the right thing would be to let these people who live here or whoever it is; all kinds of people living in our society, be part of our society. I agree with the rapporteur that we have some very good schools and institutions in Denmark, but if there are some challenges in them, then it is our job, then it is Parliament's job to solve the challenges that are, and not just say that we are pushing the part of society that we do not like for some reason, far away. It is simply not okay to just say: we push them away, too bad, not good, out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121807	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121811	It's Parliament's job to solve this problem. I believe that the problem for many of us will be voting against this proposal is that the radical rapporteur has not defined the problem. What is the problem with passing a test and not endangering national security in order to become a Danish citizen? I simply think that where the radical rapporteur is a little mistaken is that the rest of us cannot really find that problem. But I have a more general question. Now, over the last few minutes, the rapporteur has often talked about integration. Does the Radical Left really believe that citizenship should be used as an instrument for integration? So is it to give people citizenship to promote integration? Is that really the Radical Left's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121903	At the moment our society is divided into them and us, and if we are to give citizens in any way an opportunity to experience that they are part of a community, then we must give them Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121917	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528121920	This whole thing about our society being divided into them and us being new to me, I wasn't aware of that. But, in addition, when Mr. Nils Sjøberg believes that integration is going fantastic, why is it that we see an over-representation in all the wrong statistics in terms of employment, crime, education and so on, especially when we focus on people with roots in non-western countries? And how can it be, if integration had now been completed and all had become good members of Danish society, that behaviour is not also about as with the rest of the population, for example. We are talking here about those who have become citizens. So why not vote a little like the rest of the population? For fun, I just looked it up: when you look at Vollsmose and Gellerupparken, for example, Radical Left got 34 per cent. of the votes in the last parliamentary elections. In Tingbjerg you got 26%. of the votes. Well, it's a bit from where the rest of the population cast their votes, but it may be that this group has just seen the light to a very special extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122014	I have to say that I think this is an issue that is somewhat in different directions. So if I now address one part of it, I have to say that it is still my view that if we are to have citizens to be part of our society, it is best to give them the opportunity to be on an equal footing with everyone else. Among other things, it will: They are given the opportunity to be Danish citizens. As in the proposal adopted by the Social Democrats and the Radical Left at the time, a number of clear demands are still being made, including: That crime is unacceptable. This proposal also makes demands. What is at the heart of this is to give young people the opportunity to become part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122052	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122055	That is to say, although I have little imagination to imagine that it might be the case that this Radical Left proposal has nothing to do with what might benefit the Radical Left in future parliamentary elections, namely that one could really reap votes when one considers that one is already 34 per cent. of the votes in any of these areas? If you could then turn even more people into Danish citizens, you have to think that it could continue out there. But this has nothing to do with each other, and it would also be an untimely suggestion to make, but will the rapporteur not comment on or simply confirm that this is not, of course, the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122126	Quite frankly, I am a little shaken by that question, I have to say, because it is a strange question to ask. There is no doubt that there are a great many neo-Danes voting for the Radical Left, and this is probably the case because we are trying to defend their interests and accept them as part of our society. Well, that's quite certain.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122148	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122151	Thank you so much. In other words, I cannot at all describe how much nonsense comes out of the mouth of the radical rapporteur. I think there were some others who mentioned this with the feeling that you were referring to the incredibly naive immigration policy that you had back in the 1990s and the idea of how things work. And then I came to think of the satire program called close to the truth with Jonathan Spang, where he says that if he just takes a soupterrin over his head, he can't see all the problems that are. That is a little what I feel like when I hear the rapporteur speak. The rapporteur uses these terms enormously: I think we think we mean. I simply have to say to the rapporteur: this is that citizenship should provide integration and that these people have already made a great deal of effort for society, I would like to see some concrete proof of what the rapporteur is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122244	Thank you. After all, there are international studies that actually show this to be the case. So there's nothing weird about that. But we cannot know how it will work in Denmark either in the positive or in the negative way until we actually do so. So that's all it's possible to believe. But there are other places where it has been done and where it has succeeded in making it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122305	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122309	Thank you so much. Well, that's just a weird approach to it. The rapporteur also keeps saying this: we're creating these parallel societies, that is, this thing with that, uh, they feel pushed aside. There are a large group of people who are mainly from Muslim countries in Denmark who have done insane damage to Danish society because they simply do not fit in in any way whatsoever and have adapted to Denmark. What the rapporteur is saying now is that it is society's fault. For decades there has been a completely misguided policy on foreigners, and that is what we have come up with now, and the rapporteur now believes that this should be relaxed and that it is society's fault. I can tell the rapporteur quite specifically that it is not society that pushes these people aside they segregate themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122404	Thank you. Mette Thiesen and I have been a member of the Folketing for some time, which is why we have not had much influence on how things have gone. But we can try to say how we can do things better from now on and from now on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122419	Then it is Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122424	Thanks for the speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that among children and young people born and raised in this country there can also be radicalisation and whether the rapporteur also has insight into the fact that some of the Syrian warriors have actually been born and raised here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122453	I think this is an important question that the SF is asking there. And it is quite true that there are radicalised young people. That's right, it's there. So SF points out something essential in the question. I just don't know where the SF is going with it specifically whether it is an expression that the SF has politically changed its mind compared to the attitude that the SF had to this proposal earlier or what it should look like. Actually, I'm not aware of that. So it's hard for me to respond to the fact that I can confirm it's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122525	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122526	I'll get into our position when I get on the platform. But if the rapporteur acknowledges that there are indeed radicalised young people, why is this proposal not calling for a PET assessment? That is actually where I wanted to go with the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122546	Okay. That is because, as a starting point, the proposal actually worked quite well when it was presented at the time. It is my hope that the Social Democratic Party will go back to the policy that the Social Democratic Party has put forward in the past. That is why we made exactly the same proposal that the Social Democrats, the Radicals and, incidentally, the SF and the Enhedslist voted in favour of at the time. So when we put forward the proposal that we are debating today, it is in the hope of returning to the policy that we had in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122613	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122617	One of the largest authorities in migration research is a Dutch sociologist named Ruud Koopmans. He has examined the factors that contribute to positive integration. What he has achieved is that the worst thing that can be done in terms of integration is to grant social rights with a round hand and to grant citizenship rights with a round hand. The best thing to do in terms of integration is to get immigrants to assimilate themselves. Immigrants who assimilate themselves are clearly the ones who do the best. He has found this by examining something called migrant Integration Policy Index, which is such a politically correct index, and then he has said that it is the opposite. These are the countries that are at the bottom of this index that are doing the best. So political correctness does not work. But what is my question is: what exactly is the research referred to, which shows that the generous allocation of social rights and the totally unbridled allocation of political rights provide the best integration? What kind of research is that? Koopmans says exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122733	Thank you. When I mention it, it is because it is research that takes place at Danish universities. But there is a difference of opinion, and I am happy to confirm that. I would like to confirm that there are differences of opinion. There are some who have one position and some who have the other position, and that has been the case in many contexts. It is also a matter of faith. And there you can ask if you can afford to believe anything. Yes, sometimes you can, because you have to say that there is some evidence for both, both that one can be done and that the other can be done. So that is quite correct. There is. There are critics and there are positive views.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122812	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122813	So, sir. In other words, Nils Sjøberg cannot refer to any sober research that says that the granting of social and political rights with a round hand is something that benefits. I would just like a comment on this with the Danish universities and the Danish university environments, for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's party colleague Niels Jespersen has said so well on these questions, and he is a writer. He has said that there is more sense in the typical sausage car than there is in a Danish university when it comes to research into immigration. What are some researchers who have achieved these results?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122846	Thank you. I will go into this in more detail in my final speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122852	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528122854	The rapporteur said before that the reason why the proposal was tabled is that it had worked so well before. And then it's that I just, like, sir. Henrik Dahl, is looking for evidence that it's worked well before. Because what I see in Denmark is that a relaxed allocation of citizenship has worked incredibly badly. And I can be shocked by the people who have acquired citizenship without being Danish, without mastering the language, without showing interest in being part of a Danish context. So where is it that the rapporteur sees evidence that it has worked well? Or is it about what the Socialist rapporteur has pointed out, that the Radical Left achieves a vote-maximisation among new dancers? Is that just a smart way to make a good choice? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123003	I must admit that I am speechless about the positions expressed in relation to it. There is no doubt that we will have many voters among new dancers. There is no doubt about that, and I am sure other parties too, and that is how it can be said in relation to different groups. I do not think that we are specifically pursuing politics for one or the other matter in here. What we are doing is saying: what do we think is right in relation to this? And that's a question of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123032	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123034	So there is no evidence that it works well. Well, it does mean that the suspicion I mentioned before must be more likely, or quite probable. And it's just an extremely scary thought that the Radical Left is pursuing a policy that makes it easier and easier to obtain Danish citizenship, so as to maximize its number of votes so as to get their voices; the group that wants it. This means that the Radical Left is selling Denmark. So it is not because it surprises me so much, because it is also the Radical Left that has been behind the excessively relaxed and relaxed immigration policy of the 1980s and 1990s.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123121	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123122	First of all, I would like to point out that 90 mandates are needed to decide something in this Parliament. And the Radical Left has not had so many votes alone. But there has been a different policy, that is correct, and what can then be seen today is that it is not successful as it is working today. There are major challenges, as the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Conservatives and others have said. How can we solve these challenges in the best possible way? Apparently, there is a big difference between how we feel we do. We have given our answer and believe that this resolution is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123156	Thank you. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123209	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the Radical Left for tabling the motion for a resolution, which is about requiring the government to submit proposals by the end of 2020 to reinstate the former section 3A of the law on citizenship, so that young foreigners born and raised in Denmark again have easy access to Danish citizenship. I would like to start by saying that the SF supports the fact that young people born and raised in Denmark must have access to citizenship by declaration, and this is a motion for a resolution previously tabled by the SF. And yes, it is something special to get Danish citizenship and become part of the community on an equal footing with the native Danes. It is a privilege and demands must be made on the one who wants to achieve it. But here we are talking about young people born and raised in this country. It is young people who have Danish friends, have gone to a Danish kindergarten and in a Danish school and know nothing else. In this light, it is only fair for them to have a Danish citizenship, and to me the positive thing about the proposal is that young people can feel the sense of responsibility from childhood, but also the responsibilities that result from this, that they will be able to say to themselves that they will be Danes and that this is their country. In this way, they do not grow up in an identity vacuum, but gain an understanding of ownership in relation to the country and the understanding that they should take care of the country. However, as the proposal stands at the moment, we cannot support it because there is no demand for a PET assessment. Thus, in principle, we do not know whether young people can be radicalised or commit themselves in radicalised environments. This is a very important detail to me. Because if that is the case, the young person must not be a Danish citizen. The young person will have already renounced this by turning his back on the Danish values and not wanting Denmark. And then I think it seems rather unclear whether the proposal is one in relation to the previously mentioned law, in which a number of offences can prevent the acquisition of citizenship. We think that this should be clarified. In conclusion, I would suggest that we take our amendments further in committee. With these comments, I would like to say that we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands, but that we would very much like to discuss further in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123455	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123515	Thank you. That young people born and raised in Denmark can obtain Danish citizenship by declaration is an old and well-tested rule. That was all that was missing, because of course young people are Danish when they have had their whole lives in this country. They must have the right to a red-bellied passport and the right to vote enjoyed by the rest of us. The declaration access system was introduced as early as 1950 and applied until 2004 when the VK government, which sat on the votes of the Danish People's Party, abolished the scheme for all non-Nordic citizens. When the SRSF government arrived in 2011, it was written into the government base that the declaration access should be reinstated. The flower had apparently not grown in the garden of the Social Democratic Party, so the Social Democratic Justice Ministers took their time to establish the scheme. It did not come until 2014, but due to difficulties with the applicant's solution from a previous nationality, the scheme was not put into practice until 2015. That is why it only came to work fully for a few months before the Left Government, as one of the first, took the initiative to abolish the system, moreover with social democratic support. From 2016, young people born and raised in Denmark have again had to go through the heavy bureaucratic and expensive naturalisation procedure to obtain full civil rights in the country that is theirs. When we are to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship for young people, it is not just a political view of the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and others. It is also something Denmark has committed itself to in Article 6 of the European Convention on Civil Liberties. After the Left Government has abolished the declaration access for young people born and raised in Denmark, it is frankly difficult to see what Denmark is doing to live up to that obligation. In order to remedy this, the Folketing should adopt this motion for a resolution as soon as possible. I would like to end my speech with a quote. This stems from the press release issued by the then Social Democratic Minister of Justice, Karen Hækkerup, when she presented the SR Government's bill in March 2014 to reinstate the declaration access. I quote: 'The young foreigners born and raised in Denmark who have taken part in Danish society are now given the opportunity to declare themselves Danish. The government believes that this group of well-integrated young people should be given easier access to citizenship. It promotes integration. I fully agree with the then Socialist Minister. I hope that it will once again be a policy of a social democratic government to promote integration in this important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123755	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123801	Thank you for that, President. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten talks about well-integrated young people and could not the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten explain to the Danish Parliament exactly what makes Enhedslisten's rapporteur know that this is well-integrated young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123823	I know that a large proportion of them are well integrated young people. There are probably also some who are not well integrated, but that does not change the assumption that we should not prevent well-integrated young people from acquiring citizenship in the country in which they were born and raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123839	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123842	Now, it was a little interesting first that the rapporteur admits that they are not all well integrated, but in fact it was a little more interesting that the rapporteur says that even those who are not well integrated should be rewarded with Danish citizenship. Is it really Enhedslisten's policy to give citizenship to people who in Enhedslisten's own words are not well integrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123910	If it is the case that you are born and raised in Denmark and that you are not associated with other countries, but that this is the country in which you are born and raised, and that it is the country under whose rules you live and which you are obliged to observe, then of course you must have citizenship. This proposal also lists a number of criteria in relation to water requirements, which must also be complied with. But yes, if you were born and raised in this country, it is of course in this country that you must also have the right to participate in democratic elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123942	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528123946	Thank you so much. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can provide some facts or concrete research showing that the granting of citizenship makes these young people suddenly integrate into Danish society, adapt and start to be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124007	No, but I didn't say I would. I consider this to be a political position, namely the political position that if you were born and raised in a country, you also have the right to participate in democratic elections in that country. For me, and for the Enhedslisten to see, this is all about basic democratic rights, and that is why, of course, if you were born and raised in this country, you should also have both the right to be able to obtain a passport so that you can participate on an equal footing with your comrades who have just a different background than you, but also the possibility of being able to participate in free and democratic elections. I think that is a perfectly natural right that we should be able to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124045	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124047	Okay, but that was a slightly different honest answer than what came from the Radical Left before. No, there's no such thing as that. You know, you build this on sights and feelings and guts. And the fact is that we can see very clearly, among other things. from figures from Danmarks Statistik that, for example, descendants are also very, very represented in the crime statistics. Well, this is against all common sense and all the facts. Moreover, I would like to refer to Ruud Koopman, whom my colleague from the Liberal Alliance mentioned earlier. It is therefore a man who has been researching integration for more than 20 years, and he cannot point to a single Western country that succeeded in integrating Muslims. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124135	Now I do not want to deprive the questioner of the right to see that, I think the questioner himself would seem to be a severe restriction on the freedom of expression of the questioner. But I just want to say on the question that this isn't really about who commits crime. It is not the case that you stop committing crime because you become a Danish citizen. Well, citizenship has nothing to do with whether you're a criminal or not. We are laying down rules that we must not be criminals in order to obtain citizenship, but that does not mean that if we become a Danish citizen, then integration problems will disappear or crime will disappear. This is about a basic right, namely that if you are born and raised in this country, have participated on an equal footing with your peers, then you also have the right to vote and to go on study trips if you go on a youth education course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124220	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124223	Thank you. I think it's crazy to hear Enhedslisten stand here in the Danish Parliament saying that young people who are not integrated must have Danish citizenship just because they were born in Denmark. According to Enhedslisten, is there some lower bar for how unintegrated one can be and still get Danish citizenship? We hear that there are many people in the non-western societies in Denmark who believe that Islam should not be criticised. There are also many who believe that Sharia law should be above Danish law. Some people even think that the Danish flag is a mockery. Do these people, just because they are born Denmark, also have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124301	This is quite interesting; when we discuss these issues, we always end up where we are going to discuss these terrible people; those who believe in Islam, those who do not want to be integrated. The reality is that the vast majority of the people we are talking about here are young people who are well integrated. It is young people who want to participate in society. It is young people who have been born and raised here who have attended Danish school who have attended Danish kindergartens; many of them are some who go on youth education and who just want to have the same rights as their peers have. I think it is quite fundamental that they should, of course, have the same right as others. And, yes, of course, there's a bar. So is this proposal. There are some requirements that are listed in relation to behavior requirements; there are certain judgments that must not have both conditional and unconditional judgments which make it impossible to obtain this declaration access. So there's a bar over this, but I think it's unfortunate that every time we discuss this, it has to be pulled down to a level where these people here have to be suspicious. They are quite ordinary young people, far, by far the majority of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124407	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124409	With all due respect, sir, it was in an answer to Mr. Morten Dahlin said that the rapporteur said that young people who are not integrated should also have Danish citizenship. Now it is they I am asking about here that are not those who are integrated, but those who are not integrated; those about whom the rapporteur stands here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and says: Young people who are not integrated must have Danish citizenship if they are born and raised in Denmark. That's insane. So where's the lower bar? Can you get Danish citizenship if you think Sharia is above the Constitution? Can you get Danish citizenship if it is the case that you completely disavow Danish society, from the Danish flag, from the Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124450	This bill is addressed to the many people who are well integrated. The fact that there are some people who are not integrated, who also get citizenship with that background, yes, I have no problem with that if they comply with the rules that are otherwise. The questioner can then invent all sorts of rules on how to ensure that at a later stage we do not adopt strange attitudes. We have a police department to investigate that. That is what we have a judiciary to judge people for. But the right to vote is a fundamental democratic right. Of course you should have it when you're born and raised in a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124522	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124526	Thank you. When we hear the supporters of this proposal speak out in the Chamber today, including Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, I come to think that it is an expression of such some kind of clientelism, that is, the fact that instead of trying to look at the whole of Denmark and try to take care of all of Denmark's interests, you have set out a group for which you are looking for some interests, and then you may have an expectation at a later stage that they will sign for it. It could, for example, be done. be in future parliamentary elections. It is clear that we must be careful not to make such assumptions. That is why I would just like to add a few words to the question that I put to Mr Seligman earlier. Nils Sjøberg, ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that it has absolutely nothing on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124606	I would be delighted and delighted to help ensure that young people were given the right to vote in a parliamentary election and that they took advantage of that right to vote for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's party, on Mrs. Mette Thiesen's party, on Mr. Henrik Dahl's party. It is a fundamental right as a citizen of this country to be able to participate in free and democratic elections. How to apply that right is entirely up to the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124632	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124634	The historical empire simply says that it will hardly be Mr. Henrik Dahl's party or Mrs Mette Thiesen's party or the party of the undersigned, the people here will vote for it, but enough about it. Another question is: would the rapporteur feel that it was a very serious abuse if the rapporteur and wife had raised a child in Germany, for example, and who was 18 years old, then had to carry out a test to obtain German citizenship if they wanted it after 12 years in Germany? Would the rapporteur feel that this is an abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124703	I don't think this is a personal question. I consider this to be a social issue. And socially, if you were born and raised in a country, you should also have democratic rights. That is what the democratic struggle has been about since 1849. That is where we have gradually abolished the seven f's and extended the right to vote to all citizens residing in the country, regardless of their background. And I would just like to say, in relation to whom you vote, that the right to vote applies to everyone and that you have a free choice to choose between those parties. I have no need to limit voting rights to certain groups of people who have a preference for voting for a particular party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124743	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124744	Thank you. I now hear the rapporteur talking a lot about democracy and democratic rights. I just want to know whether the rapporteur recognises that we do indeed also have people who do not recognise democracy and do not want democracy, even if they are born and raised here, and whether it will not pull the curtain away from us when this freedom sneaks into society, if you give them this special treatment. Does the rapporteur recognise that there will be a very harsh judgment from future generations that we have not been careful enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124831	But it is clear that we must be aware of anti-democratic tendencies. They exist both in Islamist circles, in Nazi circles and in other circles in society, and of course they must be combated. But we do not do that by depriving people of the right to vote. No matter how strange people can be screwed up in the head, I think they have the right to vote. If they then take the step forward and commit illegal acts, they must, of course, be prosecuted. Then they'll have to be tried. But basically, people have the right to vote, including those who have an undemocratic mind. In my view, whether you belong to the extreme right or to extreme nationalism or to the extreme left, for that matter, which does not want to defend democratic rights, you still have to have the right to vote. But it is clear that if you drive it to go further and use it to commit specific illegal acts, then of course you have to be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124928	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528124930	What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is how the rapporteur believes that in the long run democracy can hold up to so many anti-democratic forces. Do we not have an obligation precisely to look after democracy and our democratic values? Because if we suddenly get a large number of people and citizens who do not want democracy to overthrow democracy, is it not a special responsibility for us elected representatives to take care of democracy and not let so many anti-democratic forces into society that can overturn democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125012	Yes, but I do believe in protecting democracy by extending democratic rights, and I must admit that I find it very difficult to see that anti-democratic forces should be promoted by saying that young people born and raised in Denmark are given a right of declaration to obtain citizenship at the age of 18. It is therefore the vast majority of those who are well integrated Danish citizens who have lived their entire lives in Denmark have grown up here, have been born here, and I simply do not believe that the problem of anti-democratic forces is solved by preventing them from obtaining citizenship by means of declaration access.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125050	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125054	Thank you, President. It is of course neither surprising nor strange that Enhedslisten believes that soon everyone should have the right to citizenship in Denmark. It's a well-known policy. What is really worrying here is that Mr. Peder Hvelplund talks about this being something they're entitled to. Because it shows a completely depraved view of democracy that it is believed that there are some people who, in themselves, have the right to Danish citizenship. I'll just have to say that, sir. Peder Hvelplund: No, citizenship is something we in the Folketing give people the right to. It is not something you are entitled to because you are born in Denmark or because you have a certain behavior. I don't know where sir. Peder Hvelplund has got the completely insane idea, that is to say, that you should have the right to it on the basis of some external circumstances. There is only one way to have the right to citizenship in Denmark, and it is through this high thing. In fact, I think that would be appropriate if the Enhedslisten rapporteur would remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125202	I have this completely depraved and insane thinking, among other things. obtained from the access that there was to obtain citizenship through the declaration under the former SR government. This is something we have adopted here in the Folketing. That's something we can do, and sir. Of course, Morten Messerschmidt should also be aware that this was the case. So there is nothing contrary to either the constitution or the normal democratic traditions that we are dealing with here by granting it access. It is a fundamental right for me to see that you have the opportunity to participate in free and democratic elections in the country in which you were born and raised. If sir... Morten Messerschmidt is also interested in knowing what Enhedslisten's view is on the possibility of obtaining citizenship, we have an excellent constitutional proposal which describes it and where some requirements are also listed in order to be able to receive citizenship. So it is not the case that we believe that everyone should simply be able to receive citizenship. But if you were born and raised in this country and by the 18 years want citizenship by declaration, then we just want on an equal footing with the Radical Left that we reinstate the right that was to it under the former SR government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125319	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125320	No, sir. Peder Hvelplund, that's not it, sir. Peder Hvelplund said. Sir. Peder Hvelplund argued in favour of this law by saying that even before the law came into force it was something one had the right to claim that it is thus such a kind of natural or human rights state where one can distract the right to Danish citizenship from something higher than the law. That's what's in there, sir. Peder Hvelplund's problem. Maybe it was a statement. I hope so, because there is only one way to divert the right to something in Denmark, and that is if it is provided by the law. But the problem for Mr. Peder Hvelplund and his socialist circus are, of course, that there is something more important than the law, namely human rights and all the natural-rights substance on which you are based, because you will then promote your cause. So I think, sir. Peder Hvelplund either has to take those words back or just admit that he is basically not a democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125408	Now I can speak for myself and say that I have often seen myself standing in this Chamber arguing for things that I thought were right but had not yet been adopted. I even think I will go so far as to say that I have experienced Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did the same, that is that he has stood in here and argued for things that he thought were right and that he thought should become legislation but had not yet become legislation. It is, in fact, exactly the same thing that is happening in this case: I am standing here arguing for a proposal that I think it would be sensible to make and which is within the framework of the constitution and which lies within what the Folketing can decide, and I am in fact going to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125443	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125456	Thank you, President. Today's three motions for resolutions in the field of citizenship say a little about the scope of Danish politics. We Conservatives believe that Danish citizenship is a huge privilege that should be earned. One should not be sentenced to prison, either conditionally or unconditionally, one should at least live up to Danish test 3 without the current exceptions, and one should like to have an oral interview so that we can get a slightly better idea of who the applicant is as a person. That is one of the things we need to talk about in relation to the next two proposals. Here we have a proposal from the Radical Left which will water down the process of obtaining Danish citizenship. One will override some essential requirements just because the applicant was born in Denmark or has been in Denmark for a number of years. And then we even hear from the Enhedslisten that this resolution is about giving non-integrated foreigners Danish citizenship. I find it difficult to describe it as anything other than a mockery of Danish citizenship, and that is why the Conservative People's Party is voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125605	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125619	For decades a broad majority in the Folketing has thrown around with Danish citizenships to quite incredible many who should never have had it. We have continually tightened up a little, but absolutely and in no way imaginable enough. The Danish citizenship is a gift, a gift that must be quite, very few enjoyed, and it should not be something that is easy to get. We are already affected by decades of totally failed immigration policy, and that must and must be stopped. That is why we must also severely restrict the granting of Danish citizenship. It will therefore come as no surprise that we cannot possibly support this motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution, on the other hand, reflects the usual radical naivety. We see mosques shooting up in several cities. We see the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrive in institutions, schools and public jobs. Halal meat and gender-separated swimming are readily accepted. The immigrant gangs are shooting at us on the street. Terror protection has become today's architecture. The number of reported rapes has exploded. Police, rescuers and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in immigrant-heavy areas. Crime committed by persons of foreign appearance, Middle Eastern or Arabic appearance, is daily literature in the local media. Ten out of 12 rapes are committed by immigrants or descendants, and one out of every other raped is an immigrant or descendant. Descendants of non-western immigrants commit almost two and a half times as much crime as the rest of the population of Denmark. And that's why this proposal makes absolutely no sense. Danish citizenship is a gift. Too many have received it; too many who do not deserve it and who should return it immediately. The time for radical naivety should gradually be missed. If one can constantly close one's eyes today to the massive problems caused by immigration from mainly Muslim countries to Denmark, then one has finally proved that one is totally fact-resistant and indeed also glaringly naive. So, of course, we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125851	Thank you. There was just a request for a brief comment. Sir. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125857	Thank you. Reports from North Rhine-Westphalia and research from Eva Ersbøll, a Dane, point out just how central it is to give citizenship to citizens in order to make them part of our society. I think it's a very crude thing... but it doesn't surprise me... when the bourgeoisie places all young Danes with different ethnic backgrounds on all sorts of terrible things. I do not want to go into all that has been said here, but I would just like to draw attention to one point on which I would like to put a question. Does the rapporteur think that this is a fair way of looking at a whole group of people? That's what I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528125948	I think it is quite real to look at the facts that are incontrovertible. We can, among other things. in Danmarks Statistik read how things stand, and we can read what Ruud Koopmans, who has researched integration over crazy many years, writes, and we can see it quite clearly. So, of course, it is quite common sense to say: No, we should not distribute citizenship to people from countries with which we have really bad experience. That is common sense. But I would like to say that we are talking about a real problem here, and the real problem is Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130028	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130030	Thank you. I am not going to comment on the report here, but I would just like to say that there are up to a number of reports that actually prove that citizenship and the granting of citizenship help to give citizens an experience that they are part of the community. I think it is amazing that we are standing and saying what is said about a whole group of Danes, and I would like the rapporteur to say quite clearly whether it really is the view that all those who come from non-Danish ethnic communities should go home. How would the rapporteur have a society to function? Now I am not just thinking of the many bus drivers, cleaners, etc., because there are a lot of key people in our society who make up a great deal. I wonder why the rapporteur thinks it is so funny and smiles at it, but I am very surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130120	I am very surprised at the rapporteur's arguments. This isn't funny at all. This is tragic. It is tragic how the Radical Left has led a policy of aliens which has so much undermined the foundations of our society, that which generations before us have built. And no, that is why, of course, you should not throw around with Danish citizenships. The Danish citizenship is a gift that must be given to very few people, and it is certainly not something you should just throw around with. That is simply common sense. But it is clear that common sense bounces off on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130157	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and the next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130206	Thank you for the floor. The Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. I must also say that I am quite astonished that it is really the policy of the Radical Left that one should be able to become a Danish citizen without a security check from the Police Intelligence Service, without necessarily backing up the Danish social model, without being self-supporting and without necessarily being able to speak Danish. The fact is, unfortunately, that today you can easily get through both primary and secondary school without mastering Danish. How it has ever come to this is a mystery and a scandal which we must discuss in another forum and together with another minister, but now I just mention it. But to be honest, this motion for a resolution is simply so hostile to Denmark's security and to the security and rights of its citizens, and it is hostile to the continued existence of the Danish social model in a way that I am amazed that someone can get himself to put it forward. It belongs in the saddest corners of the 1990s, and I wish it had been there and that we should not discuss it by 2020. The fact is that there is research into why Sweden is worst practice in Europe when it comes to emigration. Sweden is worst practice, according to Koopmans, which I have already mentioned, because it has an uncritical allocation of citizenship and it has a totally uncritical allocation of social benefits. That is the worst thing that can be done, according to Koopmans, which is one of the greatest authorities in this area across Europe, and that is the worst thing that can be done in terms of integration, and this is what the Radical Left is proposing here. What you have to go for is, of course, a very, very critical allocation of citizenship, and then of course you have to encourage everyone to assimilate themselves, because that is what Koopmans says about something that helps. So this is a really, really bad proposal, which I am glad is being massively rejected here in the Folketing. This shows how far we have, fortunately, come in relation to the enormously damaging political line being taken by the Radical Left in the fourth decade. That is what I wanted to say about the proposal here, but I would also like to comment on one thing that has been said, and that is the proposal made by Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth said that it might be possible to call for new negotiations on the rules of citizenship. We have always thought it strange that we should talk to each other as a self-reliance, but we could not get into the agreement that it should not be, last time we had things to do, but it is a good proposal, Mr President. Marcus Knuth is coming along, and I hope that at some point we can get to where we can have a look at the rules that are in place to regulate the granting of citizenship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130535	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130538	Thank you. The rapporteur draws attention to Koopmans, and he is one of the most right-wing researchers at all, so I am not surprised that Koopmans has that view; it cannot be surprising to anyone. I would like to know to which other researchers the rapporteur refers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130600	Koopmans is not really right-wing. He writes in the preface to one of his books about the journey he himself has been on. He's Dutch, and he says he was just as confident as everyone else in the 1990s, and he says he expected integration to work out, but he just saw in the Netherlands that it didn't, and it made him do empirical research on these things. But, by the way, I find it incredibly strange to look at the views of scientists. Although they are wrongly described, I find it strange to look at the views of scientists. It is a so-called ad hominem argument which is not possible at all when it comes to assessing research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130648	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130649	Thank you. I would then like to make it very simple: would the rapporteur please explain to which other researchers the rapporteur refers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130659	Well, the ROCKWOOL Foundation has published lots of reports describing how integration has failed in Denmark. You can just take them, and they're written by many different writers. In a very fast googling you can, for example. find ROCKWOOL Foundation studies. They're all proving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130717	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130721	In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to sign off on the fact that Mr. Henrik Dahl brings both some facts and some sense into the debate here, because I believe that bringing in Koopmans, also earlier, in the debate qualifies the debate. And in relation to the ad hominem argumentation, I am in complete agreement. I think it would have been appropriate for the rapporteur for the proposers also to qualify the debate with facts, and another researcher who had been relevant to involve could have been Collier, but we can talk about this with the rapporteur for the proposers on another occasion. Moreover, I fully share the view that this method and the proposal as it stands here will prevent PET from doing anything at all, because it would be unconstitutional, and I regard that as totally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130807	Well, thank you. And it is true that there is also a great deal to be done there, and I know that both in the questioner's party and in my party we have been very interested in the analyses that have been presented, including on refugees, for example. So it is a good example to mention, as has been the case in several debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130831	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130840	In the alternative, we support the proposal from Radicals. We would like to avoid people ending up in such a somewhat national-weightless state between residence permits and citizenship, so I think that the risk that it will be to reach out to the people it is about here, who were born in Denmark and have been here for 8 years, and give them a citizenship and the right to vote, pays back all in all. When we show confidence in people, I see that we have confidence and responsibility back. People care about a society of which they feel part. So in the alternative, we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130929	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the alternative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528130957	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. In the Radical Left, we believe that young people who have been born and raised in this country and who have passed the primary school's final examination and have refrained from crime should be able to obtain Danish citizenship at the age of 18. That is why the Radical Left, with this resolution, has wanted to send a strong signal to young people who have been born and raised in Denmark and who often know nothing else. We would like to welcome young people as part of our society. We want to show that they are part of our society. We want to show that we are making demands on young people. And we want to turn young people into fellow citizens of our society. The young people have been raised with Danish culture under Danish conditions. Many of them know nothing else, and therefore children and young people born and raised in Denmark must be given citizenship easily. Therefore, the Social Democracy and the Radical Left introduced into the government the possibility that young people could acquire citizenship at the State Administration without having to go through everything else that would be necessary to obtain citizenship, but unfortunately, the Left Government abolished the possibility in 2016. We in the Radical Left felt that was a wrong decision. With the amendment of the law, the Folketing has also made the lives of young people much more uncertain, because they now have to be tested on an equal footing with adults in a series of tests to obtain citizenship, not least uncertainty as to whether the life they have lived so far can be lived on with friends, family, social activities, education and much more. I believe that it matters to the cohesion of Denmark that young people become citizens when they have lived their entire lives here, have gone to school here and have their family and friends here, and do not have to go through some game of Bezerwizzer or Trivial Pursuit with 40 questions to become Danish citizens. I think you can only expect something from another person when you show them confidence. I do not agree with the government and the bourgeois parties or with the SF that there should not be enough control over who gets citizenship, because there are demands in the whole resolution. There is a requirement to pass the primary school exam, and there is a requirement to be between 18 and 19 years of age and have been in Denmark most of the time. According to this proposal, you must have lived in Denmark for at least 12 years and not have been convicted of crime. A statement is a good and effective way of doing it. And we in the Radical Left continue to work to ensure that criteria for exemption are laid down in the Folketing, so that the vast majority of people can obtain citizenship through the birthright office or just with a declaration rather than through the Committee on the Rights of the Child. This will ensure legal certainty and transparency. That is why we call on everyone to reinstate the former section 3A of the law of citizenship. In the Radical Left, we believe that we in the Folketing have a responsibility to create hope and to show confidence in young people. That is what young people, in our opinion, grow from. That's what makes good people. That is why I am also sorry that there is a lack of support for the proposal. I do not wish to deny that the Radical Left will come forward with the proposal at a later date. In the Radical Left, we do not regard these young people as them in relation to us, but as part of the community only in this way we avoid parallel societies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131404	I just have to say that this is something near the most absurd thing I have heard from Parliament's platform as long as I have been sitting in the Folketing, i.e. that a completely loose allocation of Danish citizenship should be a protection against parallel societies. And when, at the same time, the radical rapporteur neglects the importance of the birth test and compares it with a game of Bezzerwisser, I am deeply, deeply concerned that it is such a party that holds hands under the current government. Would the rapporteur not just confirm that the birth test is there to check, to check that those who become Danish citizens have a knowledge of Danish social conditions, that they know something about Denmark, that they know something about Danish history, that they know something about Danish values? The rapporteur's comparison with a game of Bezzerwisser is therefore so far out in hemp that it is difficult for me to put into words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131459	Well, let me take the floor briefly again and say that an example could be that a few years ago you should know what kind of Olsen gang movie came first. Well, I guess it's not being able to sit down in Danish culture, memorize the answers to some questions and then go to the exam. So the question is, is this the right way to actually assign this citizenship? This is a completely different matter. As I said, we believe quite clearly that if you have lived in Denmark for 12 years, you have refrained from crime, and if you are born in Denmark, then you must be allowed to become a Danish citizen. Then Mr. Dahlin says there are different studies. Yes, I have checked and examined it, but I think this is a question of attitudes, because it is difficult to relate to whether it will be the same in Denmark. It can be said that there are reports from North Rhine-Westphalia that this is the area in Germany where most immigrants live from third world countries where it has been found that those who have become citizens are those who are best integrated into society. This is where the children are best integrated and where they develop. And then Eva Ersbøll (fourth Vice-President Yes, thank you! ) Sorry, among many others, has also been made aware of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131609	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131610	I just want to know if I have understood the rapporteur correctly. The rapporteur believes that the evidence that a loose approach to the granting of citizenship does not create parallel societies, is Germany correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131629	There are examples of this, and there is research on this in Germany. I am not saying that it would be the same in Denmark. I think that would be a good way to do that, namely to show it confidence in young people, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131640	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131644	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Radical Left will be involved in adding a demand for a PET assessment to their motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131658	I would very much like to take that to the group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131703	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131707	Thank you so much. Now, as we stand here, it seems to me that the Radical Left has often made it very clear that they are in favour of gender equality, that they are in favour of this, that one should also have the opportunity to live out one's sexuality, regardless of how one is, and we can in fact agree very much on that. But then I would really like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the study that has been carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration under the title "Citizenship 2019', where it actually appears that about one in four immigrants and descendants believe that homosexual marriages are morally wrong, that new dancers, including especially descendants, want to protect religion much more from criticism, 39 percent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work has been accepted by the Member States. So with regard to equality, freedom of expression and the right to sexuality, does the rapporteur still believe that the Radical Left is in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131814	These are the central points of the Radical Left's right to freedom of expression and to love what you want, and so on. So Mette Thiesen is absolutely right about that. What's at the heart of this context is that we have a perception that it doesn't make it better that you don't feel like a part of Danish society. It is no better to know: you can just stay over there, because we really don't like you; you shouldn't have been here at all. This is the perception that a lot of people experience, and if you are part of that experience, you also remain part of that experience. If one is welcomed and one is integrated into our society, then we have the opportunity to influence and develop. There is no doubt, then, that I would like to do my utmost to ensure that the notion of gender equality, for example, was greater in order to take something quite concrete. I clearly believe that this is something that is developing, and it is clearly a problem that there is that position, but how are we going to resolve it in the best possible way? We believe that this is the way to make them Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131926	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528131927	This is simply nonsense, because all of this is based on Islam. All this is rooted in Islam, because many of these descendants clearly see that the more religious they are, the less homosexuality and equality are supported. So this is simply nonsense. It is also nonsense when the rapporteur says that just because you give them citizenship, they suddenly become less religious, and then suddenly they start to think that democracy is lovely, or that gender equality is absolutely fantastic, or that homosexuals should be allowed to practice their sexuality. That's bullshit. There is no evidence whatsoever of this. These are visions, and they are gut sensations, and I think it's amazing that you're still so naive today that you believe in all this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132005-2	Thank you. Perhaps I can say in the same way in simple terms, because this is also a question of whether you think that you can get rid of Islam by not turning young people into Danish citizens. Is that the method of New Citizen? It's not the method. We need to find out how best to create a common society and make it work in the best way possible. This is one of our solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132035	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132037	I'd like to say to Mr. Nils Sjøberg, that this isn't really about us killing Islam. This is about us stopping Islam from getting rid of Denmark. That's what this is all about. It is not surprising, of course, that the Group of the Radicals is behind this as if we are not seeing the reality, which has unfortunately become increasingly clear to at least more Danes over the last 30 years. It has therefore also found itself in an increasing number of parties, except for the two more difficult ones we hear, namely Enhedslisten and Radicals, which support this proposal. It is Islam that is the problem. I actually think that Mr. Nils Sjøberg owes an explanation. Now that we are talking about these people who get citizenship, why is it that it is relatively similar to those with a Muslim background that falls through? After all, we do not experience integration problems to a significant extent with people who come with a Hindu or atheistic or Catholic orthodox background for that matter. After all, it is Muslims who are the problem, and it is not included in Mr. Nils Sjøberg's very academic practice here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132144	Thank you. I would like to mention a matter that I had in the Chamber yesterday. It's Annette Herzog. She is a writer and comes from East Germany, has made 36 children's books, has lived here for 29 years and could not become a Danish citizen despite the conditions that are now. That is to say, she is in a situation where even under those conditions she cannot be. I have also mentioned earlier today a lecturer, whom I was taunted for mentioning, who could not be allowed to become a Danish citizen, even though he actually teaches and works at the University of Copenhagen. These are just two specific examples of non-Muslims who find it difficult to become Danish citizens, despite the fact that they actually enrich our Danish society to such an extent. I think it should be taken into account. I know that it is a rhetoric that both the New Civil and the Danish People's Party so much appreciate, i.e. to be able to call everything Muslim and Islamic etc. etc. I understand. That is the position that is evidently being taken. That is the rhetoric one wants to use, precisely them and us. I would strongly advise against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132248	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132249	No, sir. Nils Sjøberg, that's the reality. What's the problem with Mr. Knox? Nils Sjøberg, isn't he, sir? Nils Sjøberg, who is the obstacle that all the children's writers and others can get Danish citizenship because he is just not willing to accept that there is a difference between the Muslims who come to Denmark and the non-Muslims who come to Denmark. I dare say that if we had not had all the problems with Muslims, for which the Radical Left in particular has been the banner leader, thanks to the increasingly liberal immigration law that we would have liked to introduce, we would not have needed all these austerity measures at all. So these austerity measures are only being implemented so that they do not affect Muslims, because the Radical Left insists that it should be the same laws that affect everyone. For my sake and for our sake, we could do something that just says you're from the Middle East and you're not Jewish, so it's a no-go. If you come from the rest of the world, we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132332	Now the Radical Left happens to be in favour of human rights, which means that all people are equal, no matter what colour they have or what religion they have and all must be treated with equal respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132345	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132347	I'm a little shocked to hear this debate today, so I've just gotten into it. In fact, I believe that it is the Radical Left's rapporteur who owes it, among other things. This children's book author apologies. For what has happened is that a party such as the Radical Left has been behind the fact that the country has been filled with people who do not want to become Danes, and therefore it has been necessary to impose all the restrictions that the Danish People's Party is happy to have come. But it would have been better to live without restrictions and without the people who have created all the problems. But it is the Radical Left who wanted that group to come to the country, so it is the Radical Left's fault that this author of children's books has this problem and it is a luxury problem, because there is no real problem that you have to prove that you are Danish and that you can Danish, in order to get citizenship. You didn't have to do that before, because there we didn't have that problem. It was a matter of course that if you lived in Denmark, you could be Danish. We cannot do that today, and that is because the Radical Left has pursued the terrible policies they pursued in the 1980s and 1990s.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132456	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132456-2	Sometimes I have to admit that it is hard to find words for how in the world one should argue against that, I would say that it is the Radical Left's fault that Annette Herzog is unable to acquire citizenship. It is a question of a case that is so sluggish and that it is not taken into account that there is a citizen who actually believes and expects that she can be accepted as a Danish citizen because she is a Danish interpreter, because she has written, I do not know how many books, and because her texts actually form part of Danish youth literature on a large scale. Then she is in the situation that she cannot become a Danish citizen because the procedure does not work optimally. That is what I pointed out yesterday in a paragraph 20 question, that is, how important it is for us to have a procedure that works. When you have already been able to see on the first day that she could not meet the Danish requirements and it is apparently very rich, you have to pass Danish exam 3 then the situation is obviously the one that then you cannot accept her. That is because we do not have a system that is flexible enough. That is the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132604	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132605	It is appalling, it is absurd, and it is grotesque to hear a rapporteur from the Radical Left bore himself into one small problem of surpluses, a tiny surplus problem, while one has completely closed one's eyes to the huge integration problems that we have in Denmark and throughout the Western world, because this insane immigration policy has been pursued, allowing people from the Islamic world to have free access to the rich Europe of people who have not wanted to integrate, who have not had the will to do so. And it is now being demanded that people have to meet certain requirements in order to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132647	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132647-2	Mrs Marie Krarup mentioned herself that I was responsible for Annette Herzog's situation. I mentioned that this is the way to manage, which is a challenge, and I still think it is. That is why I would like to hold on to it. Who is to blame for what has happened to Denmark? The Radical Left is, of course, partly to blame, but now it is the case that there must be 90 mandates to form a majority here in the Folketing. The Radical Left would be happy to take its share of the blame if it were to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132719	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132733	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528132759	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes, with this resolution, to permanently exclude all persons who have been sentenced to a conditional or unconditional prison sentence from being able to obtain Danish citizenship. We cannot support the government's proposal. However, I agree with the authors that it is a huge privilege to acquire Danish citizenship, and the granting of citizenship to foreigners is also a great declaration of confidence from Danish society. And if you want to have Danish citizenship, you must of course also be able to behave properly and earn it. Rules apply today as to when you can become a Danish citizen, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. By the summer 2018 was among others. The Conservative People's Party helped tighten these rules, so it became harder to become a Danish citizen if you have committed crime. This means that more crimes now rule out a person from ever being able to become a Danish citizen. I think that makes sense, too. Let me just give you a few examples. If you receive an unconditional penalty of one year or more, this means permanent exclusion. If you commit perilous crime and have a suspended sentence of three months or more, this will result in permanent exclusion. If you engage in violence against children or commit a sexual offence, it will result in permanent exclusion if the applicant was over 18 years of age when the crime was committed. If you commit gang crime, it leads to permanent exclusion. In addition, if you are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, you are excluded for a minimum period of 12 years, and you are sentenced, for example, to death. Six months of unconditional imprisonment, it leads to exclusion for 18 years. So there are some relatively long waiting periods. Nor will a person be able to obtain Danish citizenship, while the person concerned is charged with a crime and it is thus unresolved whether he ends up being punished. One's actions must have consequences, but there must also be the right balance between the offence and the consequences. If, forever, we exclude all those who have been given unconditional and conditional prison sentences from obtaining Danish citizenship, we will also rule out a person who, for example: as a young person is sentenced to a very short and conditional prison sentence. In such a case, after the motion for a resolution, the person concerned will also be excluded from Danish citizenship much later in life, perhaps at the age of 40, 50 or 80. I also noticed that the President of the Left said back in February to Jyllands-Posten that he is not sure that the Conservatives' proposals have the right balance. Perhaps that is the right way to put it: that is the balance. I am actually also quite satisfied with the current balance of the rules, in which we have taken into account both the crimes involved and the sentence imposed. Having said that, as I said earlier today, we are ready to discuss in the circle of agreements whether the cut has been correctly applied or whether there is a need or a desire for an adjustment of the rules. Because, as I said, we fully agree with the authors of the motion that it is a privilege to become a Danish citizen and that we must make high demands on those who want to become a Danish citizen. But we do not agree that the balance has been found in this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133115	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133117	Thank you. Minister, I have been very sorry about the scepticism that has been with regard to our proposals in the media from both the Social Democrats and the Left. Now I understand that you choose to vote directly against this. After all, our proposal will contribute to a safer and safer Denmark. And what I fear this proposal is an example of is the gap between reality for the Danes in the real world and in the Folketing. Because does the Minister really believe that out in the real world a majority of Danes want prison-judged criminal foreigners to become Danish citizens? I don't think so, and that's why it annoys me that it looks like if the Left and the Social Democrats aren't with us that we can't get this through. Does the Minister really believe that this is what the Danish people also want: that criminals can well become Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133210	I think it's a little more complicated. Now I look here, for example. on a specific sentence in which a 27-year-old convicted of use theft by a moped was sentenced to 10 days suspended imprisonment. And, of course, you shouldn't steal a moped. But if you ask the Danes widely, and at least me, I am not in favour of ten days of conditional imprisonment as a young person, meaning that for the rest of your life you will never be able to become a Danish citizen. That is what I mean by the balance. Because we fully agree that people who have committed serious crime must either have a very long waiting period or be permanently excluded. And I think we actually have some excellent rules for that as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133254	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133255	I believe that this proposal will help to ensure that some of the young people out there who are considering crime, who are considering stealing a moped, do not do so, and that this resolution, if it went through, would help send out a positive signal to the young people out there that you should not commit crime. Because I think that if there is one thing, young foreigners who are considering crime, fear, then it is being able to be expelled from Denmark. And does the Minister agree with me that if you first get Danish citizenship, it is incredibly difficult to expel criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133328	I shall not be able to deny that it will have a preventive effect at all. I think the questioner is actually right about that. But there will continue to be people sentenced to relatively mild penalties, for example. as here 10 days conditional prison. And there I think we should consider with ourselves: should they be completely excluded from receiving Danish citizenship for the rest of their lives? And then I don't think the balance has been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133354	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133355	I think there is something strange in the Minister's position. Because just now we followed a debate in which the Minister and the Government and the Social Democratic Party will vote against a proposal, one must understand Mr. Nils Sjøberg, who will make it possible for some German child bookwriter, who has also lived a completely unblemished life, to have the right of birth. So there was the position of the Minister, so that someone who, by the way, had done nothing illegal and had only written books for children etc. should not have the right of birth. But now we have a proposal from the Conservative People's Party, where we are talking about people who have actually committed crime, and they can have it. I mean, it's a strange position such a small schizophrenic position that the government, I think, occupies here. Why not just cut through and say that once you have committed crimes, you have cut off the great privilege of becoming a part of the Danish people? Then you have to live here in all sorts of other ways; you can take a job and otherwise fit in with the Danish society, but not get citizenship, that is unfortunately the consequence it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133507	The specific case of the German author of children's books I understand that the Social Democrat rapporteur has asked to be brought up on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and that gives you, who are members of that committee, the opportunity to assess whether or not to grant a derogation. Of course, we will ensure that the matter is passed on as soon as possible. I also agree, as I said before, that it must have consequences if you have committed crime. It also has consequences, and depending on the type of crime you have committed and the severity of the punishment you have received, you will also have a very long waiting period or permanent exclusion. But this proposal is, of course, about all prison sentences, both conditional and unconditional, to be translated into permanent exclusion, regardless of what. Now I mention just one example of a moped theft, which, in repeat cases, I must say, gave ten days of suspended imprisonment, and in which I at least think that it should of course have consequences, including for the possibility of having citizenship, but that should not be permanent exclusion. That is what the discussion is about whether or not criminals should have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133606	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133606-2	Could it be imagined that one of the reasons why we have so many problems is even with people who have imagined that, for once as the Parliament manned us up and said: we set limits, and then it may be that it hurts, and it may well be that it encounters some of the cuffs, but we do so for reasons of principle, because we want to safeguard what is our homeland? Could it then be imagined that perhaps some of those who had been born would also appreciate it a little more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133643	You can imagine a lot of things. What I know, because I have talked to many people, is that it has been quite specific that we have tightened the rules on when to deport. It's something people respect. I can tell when I talk to people that it matters how to talk about crime and whether it is cool or not to get a conviction. I have to admit that I do not remember having spoken to anyone who has referred to the possibility of obtaining citizenship or not, but it seems immediately probable that the same logic should also apply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133719	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133721	Thank you so much. The Minister referred to this in that, at the previous austerity, a rule was made that, for example, if you were to have a had committed paedophilia or anything else very, very gross, one was excluded forever. However, I was just curious to hear whether the Minister could not also confirm that there have been some pretty serious problems with the Central Criminal Register, where it was not actually possible to withdraw that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133748	Yes, we have a problem; I have a headache that I have taken over from my predecessor. Because we have made an agreement which is about exactly what the questioner refers to, but for the sake of some rules on how long data can be stored, including crime data, i.e. whether criminal offences have been committed, we are currently still challenged in order to be able to obtain the necessary data in order to be able to execute the decision we have taken. And it pains me, I must admit, because it is a political agreement that we have made, and it should preferably be executed. The last thing I have heard is that we are still working on this with the National Police and the Ministry of Justice, and it is still my ambition that we find a way to actually achieve what has been agreed politically. But it is not something I am proud of, that we are not in a position to do here a few years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133844	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133845	Thank you so much for that answer. I can see from an answer given earlier that you expect this study to be completed by mid 2020, so it will be exciting to see what comes out of it. But it was also really just to bring up the problem, because it is an insanely big problem, and that is why, I think, it would be very good if a general rule were made which simply said that if you had committed crime, you would of course not be able to have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133915	I am glad that the questioner can tell me what I myself have said in the past, namely that it is mid 2020 • I have to admit that I myself had just forgotten. But that means it is soon, so I look forward to seeing for myself how far we have come.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133929	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528133944	Thank you. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is a privilege to become a Danish citizen, and it is a privilege to be earned. One cannot therefore commit serious crime on the one hand and expect to become a Danish citizen on the other. If you want to be a Danish citizen, you have to behave properly. Apart from the fact that you are not a criminal, as you know, we are making a number of other demands on foreigners who have a desire to be granted Danish citizenship. And on behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to thank Conservatives for raising the debate and tabling this resolution because the issue and dilemmas are important. In 2018, the Folketing tightened up the rules for obtaining Danish citizenship. In particular, it was tightened up so that people who have previously violated the law had more difficulty becoming Danish citizens and that was good. As a result, there are already several offences which permanently exclude a person from becoming a Danish citizen. Is an applicant e.g. He has been convicted of gang crime, or has an applicant committed a rape, yes, he will never become a Danish citizen. Other offences trigger long waiting periods. These were good and reasonable tightenings that we made together at the time. The Social Democrats do not support the resolution, but, as I said, we would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for highlighting a very important issue and we are open to talking further with the Conservatives about the rules that we have discussed together in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134110	There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134112	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for your kind words. I was very pleased to hear before that the Social Democrats, in relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left, had moved their position there. And that is, of course, a healthy thing for a political party, I think that, in line with developments in society, we can develop our political views. In this case, does the Social Democratic Party even have an opportunity to come a little closer in terms of tightening up crime, so that criminal foreigners cannot obtain Danish citizenship, or is it clear that the Social Democracy is sticking to the agreement reached in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134155	For the time being, of course, we are sticking to the agreement we have reached, among other things. entered into with the Conservatives and a number of other parties in 2018. So, yes, that's the short answer. But I would also like to say that, for my part, I have had such a personal thought in relation to why I do not think that one could immediately support the proposal here, as it is clear to me that it is unclear whether there will be too many examples in which, in time, it will be said that something, although it may be serious at the moment, is too trivial 30 years later; that is to say, one has been in prison at the age of 18 once for committing something that one should not have done at the age of 18, but which might not have been something that could prove that 30 years later one could not have changed and become a good Danish citizen, if that was the wish one had at that time. It is a thoughtful example, but that is why I think it is too categorical in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134251	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134252	Thank you. That is a very good point, of course, but the rapporteur also knows that we have the Committee on Bodily Rights, in which a derogation can be granted. So if there are individual examples here of someone who did something and got a prison sentence, but who many years later might still have to get a Danish citizenship, then there is, of course, a cat's member called the Committee of Insights. So there's a way around it. So will the rapporteur at least support me in calling for new negotiations, so that the large number of parties in this Parliament who want to look at those rules again have the opportunity to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134327-2	Well, I do not think that we should adopt rules which, with our eyes open, we know will create a lot of dispensation cases. And I also think the problem is that sometimes we get to hit a little wrong here, because we can see that in relation to the applicants who then have pure flour in the bag. We sometimes see that in the Committee on Birth Rights; it could be people who were originally American citizens sometime in the 1960s and who have been taken for having had 1 g of hashish on them or something like that, which they then say as something they have to have a derogation for. And there are others where their crime has not been recorded or where the registration has disappeared, and then they might be able to get through anyway. That's the risk you're taking if you get too categorical about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134409	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur, Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134426	Thank you for the floor. Danish citizenship is something special. It's not and it shouldn't be for anyone. To become a Danish citizen you have to understand and accept the Danish values, and then of course you have to comply with the Danish laws and regulations. That is why I might as well say from the outset that I have a great deal of sympathy for the idea behind this proposal, namely that one should not be able to commit serious crime and then be rewarded with Danish citizenship. That's why we were in charge of the government that tightened up the rules in 2018, and the rules also clearly state that if you have been given an unconditional prison sentence of between 6 and 12 months, you will be met with a waiting period of 18 years, i.e. 18 years before you can apply for Danish citizenship. If your sentence is more than 1 year's unconditional imprisonment, you can never become a Danish citizen, and there are also long career periods, in fact life spans, by some conditional punishments. These were basically sensible tightenings that we had agreed at the time. We're really proud of them. Because you should not be able to commit serious crime and then be rewarded with Danish citizenship. At the same time, it is important to stress that the Left believes that there must be a balance between the wrongs committed on the one hand and the consequences encountered on the other. And is that balance quite right in this proposal? Perhaps we are not entirely convinced of that yet. Does this mean that we are not ready to discuss further tightenings? No, of course it does not. We are happy to discuss it. We can discuss this in committee. We are also very happy to discuss this in the Ministry, as the Conservative People's Party suggested earlier this day. We would very much like to discuss whether we have the right waiting periods. In particular, we would also like to discuss what we do to those who have committed such serious crimes that they have been given an unconditional prison sentence, that is to say that they have been in prison. We would very much like to have a discussion on this, because it is possible to discuss whether and if there is to be access to Danish citizenship. So we look forward to the committee reading and we also look forward to the possible discussions with the parties behind the agreement on citizenship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134708	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Well, I just wanted to make a brief comment. It didn't show up on my screen. I'm sorry. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134734	Thank you, President, for the small correction with the electronics. And thank you to the Left. I am sorry that the Left cannot simply embrace the proposal as it stands. I think that having been sentenced to a prison sentence, conditional or unconditional, is quite a fine bar for not being able to become a Danish citizen. Because what we hear from the criminal environments is that if there is one thing that criminal foreigners fear, it is to be expelled from Denmark, and by its very nature you cannot, if you have first got the Danish passport. Criminal foreigners are not so afraid of coming in and humming it for half a year or a whole year. So why does the Left not embrace this wholeheartedly and say that all criminal foreigners who have been sentenced to prison can never become Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134820	But the Left embraces the proposal. I actually tried in my speech to explain that we are more than willing to look at whether we have the right waiting periods. We are more than willing to look at whether there are more types of punishments that should lead to a life sentence. We're open to look at everything. We can do that in committee. We can do that over at the Ministry. So we are happy to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134853	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134854	Well, thank you, that is certainly a good step in the right direction. However, the rapporteur himself is talking about serious crime and turning a little here and turning a little there. I do not think it is enough to say that you can still become a Danish citizen by six months of crime or imprisonment. So just to get a sense of where the Left is: How long can one sit in prison and still go away well become a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134918	Thank you. As the rules are today, you are in a life sentence from obtaining Danish citizenship if you have been given more than 1 year of unconditional imprisonment. Those were some good rules we introduced in 2018. Should we then have a look at whether unconditional prison sentences should generally provide a longer or a life sentence? We are actually very happy to have this discussion because, as a starting point, we do not like crime and also take the view that if you have committed serious crime, you should not be rewarded with Danish citizenship. So we look forward to further discussion, both in committee and, hopefully, over with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528134959	Thanks, and somebody's gotten into it. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135003	Thank you so much. Does the rapporteur really believe that convicted criminals should be allowed to have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135014	When we tightened the rules in 2018, there was no political decision that if you have committed any crime ever, you should be excluded from becoming a Danish citizen. It is not in the current rules and we support the current rules. And I do not actually read the suggestion that all lifelong crime should exclude you from becoming a Danish citizen. I do not know whether that is the position of the new citizens, but I do not see it as the proposal we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135053	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135054	I didn't really get an answer to my question. I just asked whether the rapporteur really believes that foreigners convicted of crime should be able to be granted Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135105	I think I have to give the rapporteur exactly the same answer I gave before. As the rules are today, and we have made these rules, it is not the case that all types of crime always exclude a person from becoming a Danish citizen, and we support the rules that exist today, where we have tightened up and said that if you have committed serious crime, you cannot become a Danish citizen. But all kinds of sanctions imposed on you today do not, of course, lead to a life sentence from becoming a Danish citizen, and that is not what is in the motion for a resolution as I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135141	Thank you. Now, as far as I can see, there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135151	In the Danish People's Party we think that far too many citizenships have been given in the past. We believe that we need to tighten up. That is why we are also supporting this proposal, and we believe that, in particular, the preventive effect in relation to the fact that there will be people who will refrain from crime in order to obtain citizenship is essential in this context. So we see it as a positive proposal. But that is certainly not enough. Further tightening is needed, for example. the proposal made by the Danish People's Party to allow citizenship to be granted conditionally. So that means that you can be free of punishment when you get your citizenship, but if you commit crime within the next 10 years, you will be deprived of your citizenship. We think that would be a good addition to this proposal. Nor do we think that more than the maximum should be given. 1.000 citizenships per year, and we believe that they should primarily be reserved for people who marry a Dane, and we also believe it is essential that it becomes quite clear what religious/cultural background one has when it comes to voting on who should have citizenship, here in the Folketing. So we support the motion for a resolution, and we are also happy to go into new negotiations on tightening up the law on the granting of citizenship, but we wonder a bit about the process here. Conservatives could have voted in favour of all our good tighter proposals that we are constantly putting forward, but this has not been done on the grounds that we would rather go to the Ministry and negotiate. Now, however, a resolution is being tabled in this area. Of course, it should not dissuade my party from voting in favour, but it is just funny that this process works when it's Conservatives who act, but it doesn't work when it's the Danish People's Party that acts. So we find that a bit funny, but of course we support the content of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135416	Thank you. I should like to make a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135418	Thank you. It's just to point out what I think is a little political teasing, because if the Danish People's Party is in the Finance Act or in any other agreement, but hasn't got all the parts in the agreement that you have entered into, you go down and vote in favour, or you vote against, just because you haven't got some single parts with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135438-2	After all, this is a matter of constructive proposals for strengthening the right of citizenship granted by the Danish People's Party. Conservatives could, of course, vote in favour and support, but this has not been done because they have referred to the fact that they would rather negotiate. Well, we would very much like to support this proposal, but we would also like our Conservative proposals to be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135503	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135504	Let me say that I am extremely pleased that the Danish People's Party supports this, but it is not the same as we support all the proposals that come from the Danish People's Party. We sometimes come up with something on, for example. the tax area, with which the Danish People's Party does not necessarily agree. We must not only welcome the great cooperation we have and the many agreements we can make together, but also acknowledge that we are two different parties that do not necessarily support 100 per cent. of each other's appointments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135533	But what is just interesting is that it has been with reference to the process itself that you have not backed it up in the past, and that is what is strange. The process obviously only works when it is the Conservatives, but fortunately we agree on the content here, and I think we should welcome that, but then I think it would be a good idea for Conservatives to vote in favour of the proposal that we would like to retable, namely that citizenship should be granted subject to the condition that people stay out of crime for 10 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135607	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528135617	Thank you. Today you get a waiting period where you cannot apply for citizenship of 4 years and 6 months by fines of more than DKr 3 000. or other penalty. You get an eight-year waiting period when you can't apply for citizenship, with conditional sentences without terms of community service. And in the case of community service or other conditional sentence, the waiting period is 10 years, and the waiting period is 12 years in the case of unconditional sentences. That is what the status looks like in 2020, at this time. In addition, a large number of other offences prevent a person from ever acquiring citizenship. The Conservatives now want to tighten this up. It does, of course, make one say as a radical: Well, where do we have the concept of rehabilitation?What is the situation we find ourselves in here? And there we are basically of the opinion that we have to say that this is a proposal that we cannot accept in any way. Should foreign judgments, for example? count as part of the permanent exclusion from the granting of citizenship, e.g. If you have now been given a sentence of freedom in Hong Kong or Syria to demonstrate against the regime? What are some of the considerations that actually apply here? Now that research has proved time and time again that there will be no less crime in society by increasing the penalty, why do the Conservatives argue that the resolution will ease the burden on the Danish police? And does the rapporteur really believe that someone will think twice about a shoplifting if you know that Danish citizenship cannot then be acquired? There are a number of things in this that we are at least somewhat puzzled about from our point of view. The concept proposed by the Conservatives in their motion for a resolution simply cannot be accepted. They want to end the proud Danish tradition of giving an incentive to turn your back on crime and become a full member of Danish society. I don't understand. I am in favour of which there might be doubts afterwards; that was the discussion we had before ~ high demands for Danish citizenship, because as the proposers write, it is something very special to become a Danish citizen, but how do we do it best? But we also believe that we in Denmark can forgive past crime. We believe that when you speak Danish, when you are part of the Danish labour market and society, and when you have lived in Denmark for most of your life, you have earned Danish citizenship. Today you must not even have received a speeding ticket within the last 41⁄2 years in order to obtain Danish citizenship. And if you get repeated fines, the waiting period is even longer. If you have been sentenced to prison, you have to wait 10 years. You must not have been given an unconditional prison sentence of more than one year or more than three months for perilous crime. This leads me to conclude that this resolution is not intended to prevent criminal citizens from acquiring citizenship; it is only intended to eliminate the possibility of becoming an enforced member of Danish society because of one's distant past. To remove the possibility of forgiveness and improvement from a person I do not really think is very Danish. The policy of citizenship and of foreigners must make sense. We must not rule out those who make an effort and want Denmark. That is why we cannot cut everyone off even if it sounds good on television to say: no criminal foreigner should have citizenship. Basically, this is simply a matter of respecting the individual. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140022	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140025	Thank you. Now I am not surprised that the Radical Left is opposed to this proposal, and I also fully agree that the bars for the Conservatives versus the Radical Left for how much crime you have to commit before you can still become a Danish citizen are miles apart. But does the rapporteur not recognise at least that in the criminal world there are a great many criminal foreigners who fear being able to be expelled from Denmark far more than being in prison for half a year or two, and that a very, very important part of this resolution is thus the preventive effect that is being sent out to the criminal world, namely that if this goes through, there are a lot of people who will think twice before they commit crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140116	I do not know how people think when they commit crime, I have to say, but basically one has to say that it is a really stupid idea to commit crime no matter what, because it will always stigmatise and place you in a difficult situation, often in a more difficult situation than the Danish society does. So you are placed in an unfortunate situation. So I am quite sure that it will certainly be possible to get some to do so if that is what the rapporteur is asking to think about, but I just do not think that it is the sentence and the penalty as such that determines how to get it, but that it is a question of how to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140155	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140157	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur at least recognises that this will have a preventive effect in some cases. If you add that, as I also mentioned to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, we have a Committee on the Rights of the Child, which can grant a derogation if someone is going to do something in an extreme case, on which we in the Danish Parliament think that that person should actually be allowed to have Danish citizenship anyway, then there is also an opportunity for that, then why not vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140230	Again, I do not know what causes people not to commit crime and what causes people to do so, because there can be many different reasons for it. So that part of the first question that was asked I cannot take a position at all. What is crucial to us is that we think that the demands that are already being made are very harsh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140249	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140301	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. Access to Danish citizenship is not something you just get. It is a very special privilege, and I have repeatedly stressed this from the platform. In fact, I think we all agree on that. In the SF, we wholeheartedly support the need to make tough demands on those citizens who want access to the great privilege of having Danish citizenship, and it is quite clear to everyone and has become clearer in recent years. We note that today there are quite clear requirements for applicants seeking Danish citizenship, including Danish knowledge, self-reliance, and of course whether you are punished. For example, we must not have an unconditional sentence of liberty of more than one year, while at the same time it is clearly emphasised that there are stricter requirements for dangerous personal crime, terrorism, gang crimes and, for example, sexual crimes. This is a serious crime which we, as a society, absolutely cannot accept, and therefore it has consequences. We therefore believe that there is no need to tighten the requirements further in relation to any penalty imposed. We should not brand very young people, for example, who, in an early youth, have made a single mistake and have a conditional sentence, but then stick to the right side of the law. With this I would like to inform you that the SF will vote against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140454	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140457	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur has suffered a distinction between serious crime and, let us say, mild sentences. Does the rapporteur think that a sentence of less than one year's imprisonment, let us say nine months' imprisonment, is a lenient sentence, or is it serious crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140514	I would say that we have already tightened up the demands quite a bit in relation to the type of crime you commit, and so it is also the case that you have a really, very long waiting period for less serious crime, for example. Of course, crime is totally unacceptable, but if you have committed a minor crime in your young years and if you have otherwise kept on the right side of the law, then I think you should have a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140551	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140552	However, the rapporteur knows very well that we have the Committee on the Rights of the Child, in which it is then possible to apply for a derogation, and now the rapporteur mentioned in his speech, if you have committed a single offence as a young person and received a conditional sentence. If we were to try to get to know each other a little bit, would the rapporteur agree to this if it were the case that mild crime had been committed repeatedly and still been sentenced to prison? Would that be good enough for the rapporteur to come up with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140622	I would very much like to discuss this further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140625	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140635	Thank you. When you have endured your punishment, you have paid your debts to Danish society, except when you apply for Danish citizenship. Then you are affected by Karen rules, which, in the view of Enhedslisten, are far too strict. The Karen rules are so strict today that only 1 year of imprisonment means that you can never ever become a Danish citizen, and shorter prison sentences result in many years of waiting. There is no need to tighten up the Karen rules, on the contrary. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, I think it is commendable that the Conservative People's Party, with this proposal, wishes to require the government to submit a legislative proposal on the criteria for inclusion in the draft law on the communication of citizenship, an area which, as we know, has been regulated so far in the so-called citizenship agreement, which is not a law, but an agreement between parties which together have a majority in the Folketing. We would very much like to see the criteria for inclusion in a bill on the communication of citizenship, as Mr. Marcus Knuth then apparently also suggests here that was laid down in a law which had been discussed publicly and dealt with three times in the Folketing, and not in an agreement made behind closed doors in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, the government basis underlying the SRSF government's formation in 2011 states: • The requirements for citizenship are adopted by law rather than by changing political agreements •. In the view of Enhedslisten, that was one of the very sensible things that was in that government base. Unfortunately, the Radical Left, having brought the wordings into the government base, left it to the Socialist Ministers of Justice to put it into practice, and then it never really happened. But hopefully the resolution here can help change that practice. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten cannot support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140836	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140838	Thank you. With some of the other parties, and most recently with the Enhedslisten, I tried to see if there was something that could be done to enable us to meet, and with the Left and the Social Democrats I hope that we can at least move in the same direction. I do not think that is the case with Enhedslisten. I think we are too far apart, but now I have to ask just out of curiosity: would there be an upper bar for how many years you can have been in prison for still being able to obtain Danish citizenship if it was up to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140914	Yes, and it is also clear from the constitutional proposal made by Enhedslisten that it is not because we reject the Karen rules. But it is just the case that if we look at the rules here in Denmark and compare them with the rules that exist in the other Nordic countries, they are extremely strict. In our view, as the Karen rules are today, where even relatively mild crime leads to long waiting periods, this is not proportionate, and we therefore believe that, on the contrary, we need to relax the rules rather than tighten them further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140948	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528140949	I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly: that is, there is no upper limit. No matter how severe a crime you have committed, whether it is terrorism or not, no matter what you have done and how severe a punishment you have received and how violently you have hit Danish society, you can still have the opportunity, according to Enhedslisten, to apply for Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141009	No. Then I don't think that sir. Marcus Knuth listened to me. It is also clear from the constitutional proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten that we also support the fact that there are rules of practice and that very serious crime could lead to the impossibility of obtaining citizenship. However, in relation to the Karen rules that are currently in place, we do not consider that there is a need for austerity, but that, on the contrary, it is relaxations that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141042	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Marcus Knuth, has asked for his speaking time to be divided up, so we are giving Mr Knuth the floor. Mr Marcus Knuth spoke as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141058	Thank you, Madam President. Danish citizenship is a huge privilege. Fortunately, I am glad to hear that there are several people in this Chamber who agree with me. For it is a gift to become a Danish citizen and something to earn. We Conservatives believe that high demands must be made to obtain the Danish passport, not least because of the very special rights that go with it. The rules today are so lenient that you can apply for Danish citizenship, even if you are sentenced to a prison sentence of up to 1 year in prison. It's in our optics completely wrong. I think it is an insult to Danish society that so hard-boiled criminals later in life can seek Danish citizenship. We Conservatives will therefore raise the claim, so that any prison sentence is conditional or unconditional... cut off the possibility of becoming a Danish citizen. Firstly, we think it is right and fair to Danish society. Secondly, we do not risk that hard-boiled foreigners can come here, commit crime and yet get the Danish passport, after which we cannot expel them when they commit crime again. Thirdly, as I have said in my questions today, this will also send a friendly signal to some of the young people who are considering whether they should choose a criminal way of life or whether they should stay on the right and healthy path. Because with this bill they will be told that if they choose the criminal way of life, they will never get the Danish passport, and I am convinced that with all my heart will send a clear signal to young people to choose the healthy way of life. In short, this motion for a resolution will lead to a safer and safer Denmark, which is why I had, a little naively perhaps, hoped for the broad support which, unfortunately, I do not think I will get today, but at least we have come a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141250	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141253	Thank you so much. I really agree with a lot of what the rapporteur says. I also think this is a good proposal. That should be common sense. But I would just like to hear something from the rapporteur. Because on the next bill on citizenship, L 180, on which we will be voting very soon, there are actually 15 convicted criminals. Will the Conservative People's Party then, like what the rapporteur is saying now, live up to it and vote against that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141329	There we have the clear position, and I think I also said to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party earlier that the agreement on citizenship, which we agreed to last time, naturally remains in place, and that is why we are following the rules and voting in accordance with it until there is a new debate. And that is why I am very strongly in favour of the Minister calling for new negotiations, thereby giving us the opportunity to see whether we want to be part of future agreements. However, we are sticking to the agreements we have voted for, and that is the way it is. Now New Citizens are new here in the Danish Parliament. We warmly welcome you. But you guys sometimes go into deals where you don't get all the parts. And that doesn't mean you're voting no to everything that's coming just because you don't get your way 100 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141408	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141409	Well, now this is pretty special. It is about citizenship, and it is a law where you gather all the names of all the people who must have Danish citizenship. So I do not quite get rid of the fact that you have an agreement and that you cannot vote against a bill, even though you think that there are actually some of the people who are on who should not have Danish citizenship. It just doesn't add up. There are 15 convicted criminals, according to a reply from the Foreign Minister, to the bill that we are about to vote on here. So are Conservatives going to comply with what they say and vote no to this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141452	We are going to abide by the agreement we made last time, and that is quite clear. Now I know that the Danish People's Party has agreed to the agreement, but votes against what has been agreed in the agreement. And I just don't think that's good style. Previously, for example, it was seen. Conservatives stand outside the defence settlement in relation to the new fighter planes, so we all have the opportunity to be in agreements or not to be in agreements. This does not change the fact that we want far stricter rules, and that is why we are also very pleased that both the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party are calling for new negotiations in the area of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141528	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141529	Now it suddenly becomes a debate about the Danish People's Party's Act in the Folketing. I think that when it comes to citizenship, it is something very, very special. This is a rolling accident. It is a rolling accident that the Danish People's Party has tried to halt, and we have tried to get tougher measures through time and time again to stop the mass allocation of citizenship that was at issue when the Danish People's Party really began to gain influence in 2001. And that is why we have had as many sharpenings as possible, but that is not enough at all. After all, people who should not have citizenship are still plunging into it, and that is why we have to vote against the laws of citizenship. And there's nothing immoral about that. In fact, I would say that it is actually immoral to vote in favour of them if, deep down, you think it is wrong. How, however, can a conservative stand in favour of something that you think is deeply wrong? And here we are not talking about technicalities; that then I didn't get one, and then I didn't get the other. So here we are talking about our country changing forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141643	Now it is primarily monologue that is allowed here from the platform. However, I am surprised by the fact that the rapporteur will perhaps comment on this in his reply that, if it is so reprehensible, why did the Danish People's Party vote in favour of the agreement on citizenship that was in 2018? If it was so completely crooked, why did the Danish People's Party join it? If it is the case that you cannot see yourself in an agreement, you usually vote against the agreement. But we are very much in agreement: that agreement is not enough. But it is a step on the way, and that is why we joined it then. And what we now want, and there I am really glad that I have the support of the Danish People's Party, is that the minister calls for new negotiations so that we can make another quantum leap, hopefully, in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141727	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141728	Each time we have voted in favour of an agreement, it has reduced the number of people who acquire citizenship. At the moment, it is about 4,000 per year that acquires citizenship. We want to come down to 1,000 and perhaps even lower than that. But every time you sharpen it, there are fewer people coming in. Of course we are voting in favour of agreements that tighten up and thus reduce the number. But that does not mean that we can vote in favour of 4 000 coming to Denmark. But because there is that agreement, it may be only 4,000 compared to 6,000-7,000 that would otherwise be on those legislative proposals. That's where the difference is. So, of course, we have to vote in favour of the agreement, but no to the laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141812	But nothing prevented the Danish People's Party from joining the negotiations all the way. And when the final agreement was there, you could have voted against it. But the Danish People's Party first chooses to vote in favour of the rules to which we Conservatives and Liberals and Social Democrats have voted in favour. But when you come to the Assembly Hall and the individual legislative proposals, you vote against. And that's just a strange way of negotiating politics, and we just don't see it the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141841	Thank you. There are no more brief comments in this case. So the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528141905	Foreigners who commit crime should not be rewarded with citizenship, they should be thrown out of Denmark. That's how simple it can be said. It is actually quite incredible that we have this discussion at all. If you are a foreigner in Denmark, you must of course support yourself, and if you commit crime, you must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. Unfortunately, however, we find ourselves in a situation where there are many people in this Parliament who believe that it is quite okay to reward criminal foreigners with citizenship, to reward crime with the finest gift you can get, namely Danish citizenship. It's grotesque in itself. This proposal is about people convicted of crime, of course, not being able to acquire citizenship, and of course we support that. But I must say that I am constantly puzzled by the Conservative People's Party's actions in matters such as this one. Because on the bill on citizenship that we will be voting on very soon, there are 15 convicted criminals, people who should have lost their right both to be in Denmark and certainly also to have Danish citizenship. That is why I asked just now whether the Conservative People's Party would vote against the bill on citizenship, knowing that criminals have been convicted of it. But no, you don't want that. I'm not gonna let this Christiansborg talk about you being part of a deal. If the Conservative People's Party really means that you want to protect Denmark, if you mean it with God, king and country, if you mean what you say, that convicted criminals should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship, then you only have to vote against this bill, which includes the right of birth of convicted criminals. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the Conservative People's Party is keeping what they have said with regard to the vote on the law of citizenship, but I have still lost my little hopes. But we support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142133	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142146	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution. This is an important debate which it is good that we are taking in this Chamber. In the Liberal Alliance, we are basically pleased with the agreement that was made in 2018, while at the same time we have said so before • backing Mr. Marcus Knuth said that it would be good if new negotiations were called for to shape the rules. The main rule should, of course, be as it is today, so that if you have committed serious crime you should never be able to become a Danish citizen and, if it is less serious, there should be a long quarantine. What we are talking about most in this time around society is probably the corona crisis, but next to it I think that one of the most controversial issues, at least if you are interested in politics, is the relationship between estimates and rule. I myself have been on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and I know how important it is that we can take up specific cases and judge them and that, having looked through all the material, we can make a balanced assessment, and that is a type of case in which I think this resolution will hit a little too hard. Because there is a type of case where the offence is very far back in time, and sometimes in combination with the fact that the sight of the case which triggered the judgment has changed. In fact, I think that the example of Mr. Rasmus Stoklund came along, was good, that is, the case of an American who, as a young man in the 1970s, received a verdict for being in possession of a smaller quantity of hashish. It is not such an improbable case when you sit on the Committee on Bodily Rights. It has to be said that if this applicant has lived a blameless life until today, and that society's view of the offence for which the person was convicted has changed, what then? I think that, if I were still on the Committee on Bodily Rights, I would think that the applicant in question, through his way of life and through the long period of time that had elapsed, was a person who could be regarded as fully re-socialised. This principle, particularly that of long-term and unblemished life, and perhaps the fact that in some cases the view of the seriousness of the crime may well have changed, makes me think that we should perhaps continue with this proposal. In other words, yes to the general rule of crime and citizenship, but also yes to the principle of discretion. In principle, it must be possible to grant a derogation if the sentence is long overdue and if the applicant's life course after the judgment until today clearly demonstrates that the person has been rehabilitated. We could certainly support a modified version of the proposal, which had been taken into account here with discretion and rule, and it may also come at some point, but as it is put up right here, we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142544	Thank you. I do not see anyone asking to speak, so we move on to the last rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs before the draftsman. It's sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142619	Thank you, President. It is actually quite simple for us in the alternative. We also think this is too much of a tightening-up. There have been some good examples of the fact that very little has to be done so that you suddenly cannot obtain citizenship, for example. possession of a little bit of cannabis or stealing a moped. So the alternative doesn't fit for this. It's too much tension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142644	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So now it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Marcus Knuth, to round off the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142653	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for the many good speeches today. I am, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats and the Left do not wholeheartedly support what I think very many Danes think is common sense. Convicted criminal foreigners should not be given the opportunity to seek Danish citizenship. As I have said, this is a bit of a gulf, I think there are sometimes between the people and the Folketing, and that is a pity. But I am also glad that we have taken some sensible steps in the right direction. There are several parties here, New Citizens, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, who, like us Conservatives, have expressed clear desires for new negotiations on the citizenship agreement. I think that is something that makes good sense and something that I hope the Minister is listening to sincerely. We have a new Parliament, a new Parliament with a new party, a Parliament with a great many new members of parliament, a Parliament with a social democracy at the helm of the government and a social democracy which we saw in the last resolution has also moved on in some areas. Therefore, a new negotiation of the agreement on citizenship will clearly make good sense. I also heard the Left say that this proposal would be part of it at least, and it also emphasizes once again that there is a great desire for new negotiations. Then I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the New Civil and Danish People's Party for supporting this proposal. Now we are three parties which wholeheartedly support it. It is a step in the right direction and, again, something that underlines the importance of new negotiations. To Henrik Dahl: That's a good point you have, with great in front of rule. That is why we have the Committee on the Rights of the Child, so that we can assess precisely in very special cases, and that is not because I think we, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund said he was about to introduce new systems that would allow a flood of dispensation cases. That's not what it's meant to be. But in the extreme cases, that is why we have the Committee on Bodily Rights. So in those words I hope that we can look forward to good productive negotiations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we can come up with a new set of rules that makes Denmark even less safe and secure as this proposal would lead to, so at least something safer and secure than the current rules allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142917	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528142939	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143005	With this motion for a resolution, the Conservative People's Party proposes to introduce stricter requirements for Danish knowledge in the award of citizenship, by requiring all those seeking citizenship to pass the test in Danish 3. It is clear from the comments on the proposal that the Conservatives want the rules to be in line with existing conventions, including the possibility of continuing to apply for a derogation and the need for no change in the other rules. Against this background, I understand that what the proposers want is to abolish the exception that an applicant may be admitted to a Danish 2 legislative proposal instead of Danish 3 if the applicant fulfils an enhanced self-reliance requirement with 9 years of self-reliance. We cannot support the proposal. I fully agree with the authors that if you want to become a Danish citizen, you have to be able to speak Danish. I think this is quite natural, and it is a way to show that you want Denmark. It is also true that the vast majority of applicants for citizenship have passed a test that is at least at the level of test in Danish 3 when they are admitted to a bill. In fact, in the last two draft laws there have been together in the vicinity of 4,400 people who met the general requirement for Danish knowledge, and about 450 people who were admitted on the basis of passed exam in Danish 2. That there are 450 people who have been admitted on the basis of passed exam in Danish 2 is not the same as saying that we take the award of Danish citizenship lightly, on the contrary. In addition to being able to speak Danish one can also show that one wants Denmark by being in employment. I therefore think it makes sense for a relaxed language requirement to be made for those who have a stable link with the labour market. It could, for example, be done. be the hairdresser who has worked for at least the last nine years and therefore meets the tighter self-employed requirement but has not passed the test in Danish 3, even though he is doing his hairdresser's job well and has daily contact with customers in the store. It is about the fact that there are some people out there who get up every morning, go to work, contribute to society and have shown the ability and willingness to become a part of society, and then, in my opinion, it is not so important whether they can put the commas right in writing as well. Having said that, I am, of course, always ready to discuss with the circle of agreements, whether the cut is right or whether there is a need or a desire for adjustments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143229	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143234	Thank you, Minister. I am sincerely sorry that the Minister cannot agree to this. I think it's a minimum requirement just to be able to do the Danish, which Danish exam 3 provides. And then what the minister says in relation to self-sufficiency is fine, but unfortunately we live in Denmark with the fact that parallel societies have grown so large that there are too many people out there who live in a parallel society, that is, who are self-supporting, but who live outside of normal Danish society; you have a job, but you speak Arabic, or what do I know you do not speak Danish, so that you still live in Denmark and can only go up to this Danish test 2 because you have a job where you do not use or learn the Danish language anyway. Does the Minister really think that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143320	Both the questioner and myself took part in the negotiations last time we changed the rules for granting citizenship, and there we also had the discussion about Danish requirements. And I remember from then on that I visited a language center in the West, where I live, to sniff out a little: What are Danish 2 and Danish 3 really for something, so what is this about in practice for the people who are participating in the teaching? And one of the major differences is the writing. So, Danish 2 is a reasonable oral level, where Danish 3 also has a relatively high written level. And what I was at least told was that there are some who come to Denmark who, if they have not had the same alphabet as us, have very difficulty in learning Danish as well in writing, but who speaks and understands everything well and may also read it. And there I think it is fair to say: okay, well then you can have a very hard employment requirement, nine years of employment, and then it is an exception. And today it is about one in ten of the legislative proposals that have taken advantage of that opportunity. I think that's actually okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143427	Well, it's not a question of people being expelled from Denmark if it's the case that they don't pass these Danish exams. After all, people already live in Denmark. So if I'm going to cut right to the bone, the minister thinks it's okay with illiterates who can't write and read properly in Danish, but who can a rudely oral Danish • that it's quite simply good enough to become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143447	Well, I totally agree that this isn't about people being expelled. Those seeking Danish citizenship have permanent residence permits. So unless they commit serious crime, they can stay here. It is only a question of whether we should have some rules that we know there are some people who will have a lot, very difficult to live up to • Perhaps because they have grown up with a completely different alphabet or no alphabet, who are doing well in Danish society, who meet strict requirements to have a clean criminal record, and who speaks very well Danish and understands Danish, but who are not so good at writing Danish. And there I think it is all right for us to have an exception which is applied by about one in ten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143526	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and then we start the round of negotiations. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143536	In the Social Democratic Party we believe that one must master the Danish language if one has a desire to become a Danish citizen. Applicants for Danish citizenship must, as a rule, have passed Danish 3 in order to become citizens. For some applicants, however, it is possible to be exempted from the rule of passing Danish 3 and they can only have passed Danish 2. This requires, however, that they meet an increased self-reliance requirement to have been self-supporting for 9 years. In fact, about nine out of ten applicants are involved. Only about one in ten applicants are exempted and must have passed Danish 2 only because they have been self-supporting for 9 years and thus comply with the self-reliance requirement, which has been tightened in this case. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is fair, and our concern for a change of law on this point will be that we will see too many examples of people who have lived in and contributed positively to Denmark for decades, who will only be refused and will then be granted a derogation. So we are creating a great bureaucracy that is not necessary. We are, of course, happy to take part in further discussions with the Conservatives and with other parties in order to clarify whether there is a need to change the current rules. But we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143659	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143703	I am really sorry, but not surprised, that the Socialist rapporteur, like the Minister, does not support the proposal. However, as we mentioned with the Minister, those who apply for Danish citizenship usually have permanent residence. This means that even if they do not get Danish citizenship, they can stay here for the rest of their lives. So in relation to the hairdresser the minister spoke of, who may speak a medium or a gay Danish, but who cannot read and write Danish: If you give the hairdresser Danish citizenship, you remove a large part of the incentive that is to tighten up once and then learn the Danish written language, learn how to read Danish and be able to do even better in Denmark and become even better integrated than the person already is. So from that perspective: why do you want to give lax rules to people who might otherwise have tightened up a little and then actually learned even better Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143758	Well, I think the key here is that the difference may be what you consider to be most important. And I consider oral Danish the most important. And the Minister explained very well where the criteria are for Danish 2 and Danish 3 respectively, and that is one of the distinctions: It is that there is a greater demand for a certain level of abstraction in writing if you are to pass Danish 3. And there will be many who, although they cannot achieve that level, will still be able to make a positive contribution to Danish society and who have done all they could to show it by having bitten their way into the labour market and by the way speaking Danish. Because, of course, they have to be able to do that. And that's what Danish 2 is the guarantee for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143842	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143843	Well, then it's just that you send a message to society that if you don't really tighten up and learn to write and read Danish, you don't have to, because then there are some special lenient rules for you. And it undermines the whole principle that we will set high standards in relation to crime, language and so on, when we have different levels of more lenient rules against those who do not necessarily or will not meet the high standards. I think it's really too bad. For the Conservative People's Party, it is important not only to be able to speak properly Danish, but also to be able to read and write Danish. And that's actually more of a comment. I wish there were several parties that supported that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528143924	Well, I could better understand the concern, and I would think there was a bigger problem to address, in case we saw that there were a lot of people who got citizenship on this basis. But that is not the case. So 90%. of those who acquire citizenship has passed Danish 3. This is an exception which is used by some who have shown in other ways that they want to make a positive contribution to Danish society. And the rapporteur himself knows what work sometimes is in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and that there are also a number of cases where you think: okay, it still seems a little crazy that this case should go through us, because this is a German citizen who has lived in Denmark for decades and has been a positive contribution. Why couldn't the person immediately go through? That is the way it is, and we will see that going further if we get the rules set for squares.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144011	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144022	It is a prerequisite for becoming an integral part of Danish society that one can speak and understand Danish. Fortunately, more and more people in the Danish Parliament also realize that. And since there is now a broad consensus that the Danish language is a prerequisite for being Danish, the logical conclusion must also be that one must be able to speak Danish to become a Danish citizen. Therefore, in 2018 we tightened the rules for language requirements under a Left-led government. And since then, the starting point has been to be able to pass a test corresponding to Danish 3 in order to get the red beet passport down on the municipality. There is, however, an exception if you meet certain strict requirements for self-reliance. Thus, if you meet not only the general requirements of self-reliance, but some even stricter requirements, you can obtain Danish citizenship by passing a test equivalent to Danish 2. That option is proposed with this proposal abolished. And I would just like to say on behalf of the Left that we would like to welcome that discussion. Now I've been in Parliament and on the Committee of Insights for a year. And although it does not make me anything but a rookie compared to many others, including many others in this Chamber, I have allowed myself to make an observation. And that observation is that there are some shortcomings in relation to the language requirements we are making today. On the one hand, it is certain that the right of birth has been granted to those who simply do not master the Danish language well enough. And this is a major problem because, as I said before, being able to speak Danish is absolutely crucial to becoming part of the Danish people. On the other hand, we also experience some absurd cases where people who have taken Denmark to heart and who speak Danish better than most of us in here can be rejected. That is why I am actually glad that we are now having this discussion. I hope that this debate on the motion for a resolution may end in something other than the red majority simply voting down the proposal. Because in the Left, we are at least ready to see whether we cannot link the language requirements in a different way than we are doing today. And we certainly refuse not to tighten them up. But I must also be quite honest and it is perhaps because I have only been in here for a year that I can still be away: we do not have a fixed and finished solution to how exactly we strike the right balance, and we are not sure there is in this proposal either. But I really do believe that the rules could use a review, that is to say that we could use a political debate on whether we cannot hit even more precisely than we are doing today. Or said in more plain Danish: So we will welcome those we want as Danish citizens, and we will say no to those we do not want as Danish citizens. I hope we can have a good talk about this during the committee procedure, and I hope the Minister is listening and is also willing to put himself and his system at risk in order to find a solution to what we at least see as a problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144413	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144417	Thanks to the Left for meeting us some way along the way, but we still believe basically that it is not enough to be able to speak Danish as for Danish exam 2 and that it should be set up that it is not enough to take it just because you are on the labour market. So does the Left agree with me on the importance of also being able to read and write Danish in order to be able to behave properly in Denmark and become an integral part of society, at least enough to be able to get the Danish passport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144449	Yes, being able to speak, understand, read and write Danish is important. Nor am I of the opinion that a Danish test 2 has no criteria and no requirements in this respect, but there are just not as many as there are in Danish 3. But I can definitely answer yes to the Conservative question as to whether it is important to master the Danish language in many facets to become part of it is the Danish people. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144526	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144528	Thank you. Then I shall look forward to the further discussion in committee. I'm glad the Left is reaching out that hand. Politics is the art of the possible, and we are not here expecting 100 per cent. We hope that we can take a very long step in the right direction, and we look forward to doing so in cooperation with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144552	I see this as a comment rather than a question. I can only once again agree with the Conservative rapporteur. We hope that the committee procedure and perhaps the subsequent debate, and what else will happen, will result in even stricter rules than we have today. At least we have a wish for that. We have to try to see if we can succeed. I can't answer that, but I think we owe it to each other and Denmark to give it a try.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144623	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144626	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentioned in his speech that it was a prerequisite for obtaining citizenship that one could speak and write Danish. Now, according to the disability convention, you can obtain exemption from that requirement if, for example, there is one. is a medical reason why one cannot participate in the teaching to pass Danish 2 or the Danishism test, for example. And I just have to be sure that the rapporteur and the Left are still prepared to comply with the disability convention, so that it will continue to be the case that you can obtain a derogation from that requirement and still obtain citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144709	There I can say quite clearly that the Left is still prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144719	But I am delighted, and I hope that will also be reflected in another practice in the Committee on the Rights of Citizens' Rights in the cases of waivers, because there we have just seen that in 99 per cent. of the cases in which the disease has occurred, a refusal has been made. And that certainly suggests a rather worrying approach, in which we cannot be sure that the disability convention has been complied with, which has also been reflected in a few cases before the courts. So I certainly look forward to another practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144755	I see it more as a comment than a question, so I do not think that there is a great deal for me to answer there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144809	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we think it is incredibly important that high demands are made on those who must have citizenship, and this is, of course, especially the language, because without the language one cannot possibly become a part of Danish society. And it is unfortunately the case in Denmark today that there are parts of Denmark that are not really Danish anymore and where, unfortunately, you can do it in other languages. So we must therefore make very high demands on Danish knowledge. One must be sure that the people who become Danish citizens are actually part of Danish society. And if you are, you can also pass a Danish test 3. So we support the proposal. We think this is a good proposal. And there is really not so much more to say than that it will hopefully help to put an end to the phenomenon that we unfortunately have, namely parallel societies in Denmark, if greater demands are made on Danish knowledge when it comes to citizenship. So that's a good idea. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144930	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528144938	Thank you for the floor. When you apply for Danish citizenship, it is not just an idea that you have got across the dining table. It is the result of having settled in Denmark in a large part of your life. You have family, friends and work here. One may not be perfect to speak Danish when one has passed the Danish test 2 • far from it. I would like to be completely open and honest about that. One speaks at a level where one can speak understandably and fluently for everyday use. You can talk to your colleagues at work, and you may be able to complain from time to time. I believe that once you have acquired these skills you have your life here and have worked virtually continuously for the last nine years on the Danish labour market and paid Danish tax... then you should be able to access our democratic system. When so long and so consistently you have given such a large share of the salary from your work to your Danish society, I think you should have the opportunity to decide how that salary should be managed. Conservatives do not want to give citizenship to the working people, I would almost like to conclude. You will no longer reward citizens who have worked for many years for Danish society. It shouldn't pay to work. I could say if I was a little rude. That is what I can conclude when I read this motion for a resolution. I will conclude my rapporteur's speech by reading an extract from the award-winning children's book author Annette Herzog's speech in Politiken. She was refused Danish citizenship because she had not taken Danish examination 3 and could not prove her Danish knowledge in any other way. She writes: "I have experienced a long treatment without the slightest will to evaluate my application with a little common sense. The waiting time of 3 years alone says everything: Don't think you're playing a role. Often between 6 and 8 months passed between the letters of the birth office, while I had a 14 - day reply time. I felt like it was almost sitting on a dock. Following the passed citizenship test, I submitted my application for Danish citizenship in January 2017. I was aware that it would be easiest to take the test in Danish 3 as evidence of my Danish knowledge, as it is in the circulars. But they are only held twice a year, and you have to sign up several months in advance. In addition, I was absolutely sure that a German university degree as a Danish interpreter and translator as well as the many Danish books I had written would be sufficient to obtain dispensation, which according to the circulars is also an option. I also attached a certificate of education from the Author School for Children's Literature in Copenhagen, where I had been studying for two years. However, Annette Herzog, who was rejected because of a lack of Danish knowledge, was not to be treated as such, and she is not an isolated case. It should not go so far as to otherwise have translated his papers for many thousands of dollars paid in expensive sentences. In Radicals we believe that we do not want to create an even more rigid and anti-citizen citizenship system than we do today. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145308	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145311	I think that what the Radical Left is saying here is far-fetched, so that Conservatives will not give Danish citizenship to the entire working class, because we make a simple demand that you can write and read a reasonably reasonable Danish. Can the rapporteur hear how far-fetched it is? Does the rapporteur really have that view of the entire working class? I would say that is the overwhelming and largest part of the Danish population. Most people, regardless of what you work with in Denmark, have a job. Does the rapporteur really think that the working part of the Danish population cannot read and write?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145349	I made it clear that it could be put at the forefront in this way, because it is a proposal that affects a part of the population that works and contributes to Danish society. That is what I am pointing out. And I do not think that is right, because we have a system here that we must help to improve. I am delighted when, for example, the Left intends to consider it. In this context, I am very pleased that we are prepared to make some new reflections, so that something similar to what we are experiencing in the case of Annette Herzog is not repeated, and so that the people who work and contribute to Danish society are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145430	Then I would like to disapprove of the fact that such words are being put in my mouth again. It is the epitome of political platters to stand and say things like that. In addition, this proposal is not going to hit anyone. It's something that's gonna help some people. This is something that will reach out to that part of the population who is currently just taking Danish exam 2 and then does not get properly into reading and writing the Danish language. It is a helping hand for them, so that it gives them the motivation to get a little more together and learn to read and write the Danish language, so that you can pass the Danish test 3. Does the rapporteur agree with me that everything else equal will be a good thing for Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145509	When we talk about political platters, I think that is actually what is close to being the case here. What is at stake here is that there are some people who contribute to Danish society, who go out into the labour market and do some work. I suppose that when they associate with Danish colleagues if they do so, and I hope they do so and contribute to Danish society, they are part of Danish society, so gradually learn Danish. I think that must be the right way to do it. That is why I still believe that Danish sample 2 is excellent. But what is at least the main problem here is that the system is as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145546	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145549	I ask for the floor alone because I wonder why the rapporteur continues to give us this example of the children's author mentioned, since I assume that the rapporteur is aware that most people in the Committee on the Rights of the Child think that it seems strange and actually sympathetic to look at it. However, the rapporteur is well aware and acknowledges that in order for us to comply with the Constitution, there must be objective criteria on the basis of which they are based. That is why we will sometimes see some who fall between the objective criteria. And then it is fortunate that we have a safety valve in the form of a birthright committee, which can then say that okay, here was someone who fell between some chairs. We'll catch that, and we'll look at it, if that's how it's gonna land. Then why do we need to draw a picture so that it's the whole system that it's wrong with, and that we're trying to push people away from us and stuff like that? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145644	Thank you. That is because Annette Herzog, as I mentioned earlier in other contexts and in other resolutions here today, is not an isolated case. She is just an exceptionally good case and an exceptionally clear example of a system that should be able to see it. It is such a grotesque example that it is quite good to use. She's not the only one. But that's how you should understand it. I am also delighted that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund himself is of the opinion that a mistake has been made here. But the fact that a mistake of this kind can be made at all shows that the system has some flagrant errors and some problems that we should so much change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145721	When the rapporteur speaks so categorically, I find it difficult not to get the suspicion that it is because the rapporteur does not accept that the basis on which we can do this work is, according to the constitution, that it is based on objective criteria. And as far as objective criteria are concerned, it is impossible to make anyone where the estimate may have been made before it comes to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which is populated by members of parliament. So that is why: No, it is not an isolated example, and we will see lots of similar examples, just as has historically been done. That is why there is a Committee on the Rights of the Child which deals with dozens of applications. That is the certainty that we will then seize the most glaring of them. But we cannot avoid it, and it is not a matter of criticising a system or anything that is the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145803	Thank you. I would like to point out that earlier on from the Radical Left, for example, we have proposed that you should have a 9th grade examination and that you should be free of punishment in Denmark and that, when you have lived here for 12 years, you should be able to become a Danish citizen. These are also objective criteria with which we are involved and which we think could be a good solution. We believe that we need a more flexible system, but of course with clear guidelines, including for the people who need to be here. In this case, where I am just pointing out Annette Herzog's situation, we are in a situation where the system has shown so much that there are gaps. This is a situation with which we cannot be served. I would urge Parliament to take a position on whether the system can be improved, more flexible, taking account of individual citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145850	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528145901	Thank you, President. In SF, we agree that language is a crucial key to integration and to being able to function in the Danish labour market. Applicants for citizenship today must have passed Danish examination 3, which is equivalent to having passed the final examinations in Danish in the 9th grade. The authors state that it is sometimes only possible to pass Danish examination 2 which gives competence to take up employment if you have not received cash benefits for a large part of the period. In other words, it is a reasonable requirement that you should be able to operate at a workplace or that you should be able to pass a 9th grade examination. We do not believe that it makes sense to make further demands on people who, by the way, work well at a workplace. Unfortunately, this has no purpose and the SF is therefore voting against the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150001	There is a question from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150004	As expected. Does the rapporteur recognise that we have parallel societies in Denmark which, unfortunately, have grown so large that one can live in the Gellerup Park or in some of the other ghetto areas for many years and have a job and do without ever using the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150024	Thank you for the question. I recognise that there are parallel societies in Denmark, and I also recognise that there are people who completely turn their backs on society. I have written several critical speeches about this. But I would also point out that being able to Danish at a level equivalent to having passed Danish exam 3 does not necessarily ensure that you are not part of a parallel society or have a different mentality. This is certainly not something that this proposal will be able to do away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150058	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150059	I would like to congratulate the speeches and the views of the rapporteur. I'm really gonna appreciate that every time I read them, but back to the crux of the matter. It is, of course, that there are people who have a job, perhaps in a restaurant or in a hairdresser's salon, as the minister mentioned, where there are no people who speak Danish, and thus there is not the motivation that should be to learn enough Danish to also write and read properly Danish. This is what this motion for a resolution is trying to do away with. Can the rapporteur not see the reason for giving those people an extra motivation to enter Danish society and out of parallel society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150134	Yes. However, I would like to challenge the view that if one can speak at the level expected by the rapporteur for the proposers, then that means that one is well integrated. I would point out that members of Hizb ut-Tahrir speak Danish at the same level as the rapporteur for the proposers, but that they are still part of a parallel society and are against society. Having passed Danish examination 2 and been in employment for 9 years, I think that is actually reasonable, because then you can also speak at a reasonable level. Actually, I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150220	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150233	Thank you for that, President. The authors write that people who cannot use the Danish language in everyday language should not have Danish citizenship. But people who have passed the Danish test 2 can no doubt use the Danish language as everyday language. In the view of Enhedslisten, there is no need to tighten up the language requirement in the award of Danish citizenship, and certainly not with a Danish test 3 aimed at foreigners who have a medium or long school and education background. The Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration's own guidance from 2016 says the following about Danish Examination 3: • Trials in Danish 3 are aimed at adult foreigners who want formal documentation of Danish language skills. It is usually foreigners who have a medium or long school and education background from their country of origin. If Danish Examination 3 is made a requirement for all applicants, people who have not been fortunate enough to be offered a good education will be excluded. We do not believe that the granting of citizenship should depend on whether one has grown up in a country with a good education system or whether one's parents have been rich enough to pay for schooling. The authors of the comments state that the rules must, of course, be in line with the conventions in force so that the Committee on the Rights of Citizens can grant derogations to persons with disabilities. The problem today, unfortunately, is not that the rules do not comply with the conventions, but that the practice of the Committee on Bodily Rights does not. The Committee is presented with hundreds of exemption cases each year, where the disability convention is relevant, and in almost all cases it is refused, which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, is contrary to the Disability Convention. The daily information in November 2019 made it clear that only 1%. of applicants in cases of illness are granted a derogation. So the problem is not the written rules but the practice of the committee. We disagree with the content of this resolution and we cannot therefore support it. However, with the motion for a resolution, the Conservative People's Party will again require the government to table a legislative proposal on the criteria for inclusion in a bill on the right of residence. There is reason to welcome this, as I did when we dealt with the motion for a resolution on language requirements in matters of citizenship earlier today. The fact that the Conservative People's Party now seems to support the criteria being enshrined in a law and not in an agreement concluded behind closed doors in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is gratifying. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150507	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. Well, then, sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservatives elected to share his speaking time with five minutes as rapporteur and five minutes as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150523	Thank you, President. The Danish language is the foundation for being able to embrace Denmark. It's not the only cornerstone I don't know if you can talk about a cornerstone if there's only one stone to become part of our society, but it's an absolute necessity. Today the starting point is to pass Danish exam 3, which corresponds to the 9th grade Danish subjects with a cut of 02. It is not the highest requirement in the world, but it does put a certain barre. But as I have said, the devil is in the detail, and the law of citizenship has introduced these special exceptions, such as that one can settle for Danish test 2 if it is such that one can, for example, has been on the labour market for some time. And we do not think this is good enough to become part of Danish society; it is far from good enough. The fact that you have not been on social benefits for some time is therefore not the same as that you have become part of Danish society. As I said in my questions, unfortunately we see growing parallel societies where people live, work and live without particularly often using the Danish language. There must of course be room for one to have a disability or other, which means that one cannot live up to Danish exam 3 but, in addition, it should be the case that one can take Danish exam 3 to become a Danish citizen. Then SF asks: Well, what about Hizb ut-Tahrir? There are people who speak fluently Danish. That is also true, and I agree that speaking Danish is not the same as being integrated, just as having a job is not the same as being integrated. But I would like to turn the question upside down and say: if you cannot properly Danish, I would venture to claim that you will never be properly integrated. That is why we are hoping for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150708	There was just one question. It's from sir. Peder Hvelplund. Really? I'm sorry, I wasn't wearing my glasses. It's sir. Peder Hvelplund, who has the opportunity to ask a question. And I'll have to remember to wear my glasses next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150715	It's okay. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that in future it will be a practice for the Conservative People's Party to agree that when we have to discuss the conditions for obtaining citizenship, this is something we do through legislative proposals in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150747	I am not quite sure that I understand the questioner. So, Danish citizenship can only be granted by law. That's why we're voting through these laws. What we are proposing is a new debate over in the Ministry, so that we can have a new set of rules on Danish citizenship, just as we did in 2018. As I said, we have a new Parliament now, a new government, a new party, new views, and that is why we want to adapt the 2018 agreement to suit the views of today's Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150819	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150820	Now the Conservative People's Party is tabling a motion for a resolution requiring the government to draft a bill incorporating these demands. That's all I wanted to sign for. Because I think it is reasonable that the requirements for citizenship should be regulated precisely by law in this Parliament, rather than that this is something that takes place during some circular negotiations over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I would simply like to sign that the Conservative People's Party is now tabling a motion for a resolution requiring the government to make a legislative proposal. I think that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150852	I just want to repeat what I said before. We hope that the Minister has listened to the many parties who want a new debate on the rules of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150900	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150902	Thank you. If the Conservatives demand that you have to have a Danish level at primary school level in order to obtain Danish citizenship, that makes me ask: why do we not give citizenship to all the young people who pass the 9th grade graduation, are born and raised in Denmark and stay away from crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150921	I think it is quite obvious that we are not making this as if it were the only requirement for becoming a Danish citizen. This is one of a great many demands, because we believe that the requirements are far too lenient. So this is to be seen as part of an overall picture, where we want to go to the Foreign Minister and raise the bar so that we get better demands; so that those who get Danish citizenship have not committed crime, have not been in prison, speak properly Danish, have a job etc. So this is not a single resolution to replace the whole system of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150956	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528150957	But does this mean that the rapporteur agrees with me that Danish at the 9th-class level is what we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151006	Yes, Danish Examination 3 is described as passing what corresponds to the 9th grade Danish subjects with a cut of 02. Well, the rules themselves. And if, like the rapporteur, the rapporteur relates to his own motion for a resolution in the past, then there are two very different things. One is whether this should be part of a comprehensive package of high demands, and the other is what the rapporteur says, at least indirectly whether this should be the only requirement. So these are two very different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151039	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151100	In Denmark the Danes speak Danish. It is natural, and therefore it makes good sense to make it as a requirement when you want to be a Danish citizen. But being able to speak Danish is absolutely no guarantee that you are assimilated in Danish society. It takes a lot more than that. In new citizens, we want to solve immigration policy from the bottom up. It requires a full ban on asylum for all foreigners to support themselves and for criminal aliens to be deported consistently and after the first sentence. Islam should have no influence in Danish society, and integration is a personal responsibility, not a public task. Politicians over the past many decades have thrown around with Danish citizenships to many who should never have had them. Danish citizenship is a gift we must cherish. For example, we do not believe that citizenship should be given to people from Muslim countries where we can statistically see that they are over-represented in crime statistics. We can agree to tighten the rules, but we want to solve the problems, so we also need far more far-reaching methods, but we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151235	Thank you. Yes, it is just now that I can use my speech on motion for a resolution B 154 as the basis for this speech. After all, the starting point for the Liberal Alliance will be the same, and that is that we are very happy with the agreement that we helped to conclude on how to grant citizenship in 2018. As I also said in the previous motion for a resolution, I myself sat on the Committee on Bodily Rights, and I think that went well. The system manages on the basis of the agreement. Then there are some cases that lie in a grey area, and they then end up on the Committee on Bodily Rights. Typically, the cases where a derogation from language requirements is applied for are some cases where it is self-evident that the applicant speaks Danish at a high level. I cannot, of course, stand here revealing the individual cases, but these may be cases in which an applicant has worked in Denmark for many years, perhaps in the field of teaching, and has served Danish at a high level, and here the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection tends to grant an exemption, and I think it should. So my conclusion to the motion for a resolution here is, in fact, closely related to the conclusion of the previous resolution, namely that we must stick to the high demands we have, but that there must also be a room for the Committee on Bodily Rights to make some sensible decisions and provide some sensible exemptions when it is self-evident that it is reasonable. So we support the intention of the proposal. It is reasonable, but for the sake of a smooth treatment of applicants who actually can Danish, and the possibility of making sensible decisions there too, we cannot support the proposal as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151450	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151459	Thank you, President, and thank you all for the energy you have put here for the last few hours in these proposals. This also applies to the proposal that came from the Radical Left. Clearly, this is something that is close to our hearts, despite the fact that in some areas we are far apart. Thank you to the Left and to LA for being very accommodating to the intention. For a moment, I was hoping that Henrik Dahl would have become a genuine Conservative, even here in the platform and not only in the heart, but perhaps we could get a little closer in committee and hopefully also in the negotiations I look forward to the Minister calling for in the area of citizenship. As I said, we have repeatedly heard several parties support the idea of a new debate. I sincerely hope that the Minister will listen to this, and I hope that he will stand by the words he says, namely that if he feels that there is a great need for it in the Assembly Chamber with a new Parliament, new parties and new members of parliament, then it is the right way to go. And, of course, I would like to thank New Civil and Danish People's Party once again for supporting the proposal as it stands here. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151604	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151619	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151649	Thank you. This is an important and good legislative proposal that we are going to deal with here today. In short, there is a group of people with severe disabilities who, up to now, have not had the opportunity to receive help for monitoring and support at night in their own homes and who will now have the opportunity if this bill is adopted. Since the verdict in Vestre Landsret in May 2015, we have known for sure that there is no legal basis in Section 95 of the Service Act. 3. to provide monitoring and support related to this as part of the overall assistance in a cash grant scheme for the recruitment of helpers. That is why, if this bill is adopted, there will now be a paragraph. 4 which allows it to provide monitoring and support during the night hours for young people aged 18-23 and with the possibility of two more years for those suffering from a life-threatening disease. I'm really glad that opportunity is coming. With the current rules, there are young people who, at the age of 18, may have to leave home for example. a residence offer before they are ready for it, simply in order to be able to receive the help and support at night that they need. From now on, this group will be able to get the surveillance and support they need at night, in their own homes, even when you are 23 years old. In this way, this proposal contributes a lot to a better transition to adulthood for this group of young people with severe disabilities. I would like to thank the parties behind the Finance Act... the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative... for the agreement we are implementing with this proposal. I know that several of you have played a very important role in the fact that we can now hopefully adopt this proposal, and thank you for that. I also know that some of you, as well as some of the organisations in the field of disability that have given a hearing, would like us to go even further than we do here, among other things. in relation to the age group. I understand that perfectly well, but first of all I am just very pleased that the draft law here provides a clear improvement for a group of citizens who, for many different reasons, can find themselves in a very difficult situation, and that is why, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151921	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528151922	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to comment on the fact that an age limit has been chosen, because, as the Muscle Disappearance Fund and everyone else point out in the consultation answers, this is not just about young people but also about those who are older than 23. So what will the Socialist rapporteur do in relation to that part, so that those who are over 23 can also be included? What will the Social Democrats do in relation to the proposal for adoption which has just been adopted in this area? After all, this bill does not live up to the proposal for adoption by a unanimous Parliament. So how and how will we move forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152016	Well, I acknowledge that, and I think I did that in my speech, this bill does not solve the monitoring problem for all citizens, but it solves it for a very, very important group: some young people who, if we did not do this, will also have to leave home in future before they are ready for it. So we're gonna solve a lot of it, and I'm glad. After all, we will solve what has been agreed in the Finance Act. What, then, is to be done in the future? So, in the social democracy, we are working as well as we can, and as quickly as we can, and as quickly as the economic framework allows it, etc., to improve the conditions of people with disabilities, and we have arrived, I think, a really, very good piece of this first year of various initiatives. And today we're coming another piece, and I'm really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152110	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152111	When the rapporteur says that the Social Democratic Party is working further in this area, I would like to know when we will then see a bill from the Social Democratic Party, that is, from the government, which also means that it is not just about young people, but also, for example, about young people. on ALS patients. The rapporteur may have sat on the Social and Home Affairs Committee, where we had a lot of speeches about this challenge, which is precisely that it is not about age, in relation to when you are missing. So what's the next step?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152149	I cannot stand here and set a date or say in concrete terms what the next step will be. I am just saying that I recognise that there are still things in the area of disability that we need to look at. That is why we have also written into the paper of understanding which a number of parties were behind when the government came to us, among other things. must have an evaluation of the way in which the disability area is organised. So there are many things in the field of disability that we still want to look at. Now we've been sitting for a year and I think we've come a long way. I am proud of that, and I am also proud that today, with this proposal, we are making a very good deal of progress in relation to a group that really needs it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152230	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152237	Thank you for that, President. After all, the bill, which we are discussing here in the Chamber, has its origins back in 2015, when Vestre Landsret ruled that Paragraph 95 of the Services Act. 3, cannot be used for monitoring. Since then, young people with extensive disabilities and their families have been in a kind of squeeze because they have not been able to get the necessary help, and this is the problem described here and addressed by the draft law. The draft law proposes that the municipal council should pay a cash grant for the recruitment of helpers to provide monitoring and support, even at night, to young people aged 18-23 and, of course, to those in need who receive assistance under § 95 (1). 3 of the Social Services Act. One can say that this is a good and important first step, which we can now put our feet on, and I would also like to emphasise that we in the Left are very concerned that we must of course also ensure good service for people with disabilities, and therefore I am also pleased that we are now dealing with this bill today. When young people reach the age of 18, they are in principle out of the responsibility of parents to become joint responsibilities, and this means, in concrete terms, that the monitoring aid in the parents' homes disappears, it can be said, and that young people with disabilities are thus virtually forced to go to an institution. One of the things that I would like to ask you during the committee's reading is something which, among other things, is: The Danish Handicap Federation has also raised in their hearing answer, namely that of whether the bill actually with the money that is set aside and that is expected to cost, might even cover the whole group. This is one of the things that I think we should all perhaps have an interest across the parties in digging a little closer into, because it can be said that if the funds are there, why do we not also dare to open up to those who are older than 23? In any case, that is one of the things I can already say to the Minister I would like some answers to. All in all, we on the Left can say that we support this bill, of course, and we think it's nice that we get these things in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152525	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528152543	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party we have previously proposed whether not only a legal basis could be provided in the Service Act, which gave municipalities the right to provide monitoring, which has been the practice in force prior to the 2015 ruling of the Court of Justice, but for inscrutable reasons it has not been possible to do so. The background to this bill has been a long-term battle. During the previous government and under the current government, the Danish People's Party has called ministers for a question debate, and on 12 November 2019 we debated this issue in the Assembly Hall. The question was: How and when will the Minister resolve the monitoring problems and help those families who cannot at present be helped to monitor a family member with intrusive disabilities because there is no legal basis in section 95 of the Services Act. 3 to provide support for monitoring in your own home? ▪ In the Danish People's Party, we consider it important that we amend the Services Act and that we have a legal basis so that the municipalities can return to the practice that existed before the Court ruling in 2015. There has been a great deal of effort to resolve this with several consultations, reports and other matters in the Committee on Social Affairs, in which a large majority, among others, has been involved. wrote that the possibilities of finding a solution to the problem of cash grants for the recruitment of assistants under Section 95 of the Service Act on monitoring had not been exhausted. The parties behind an earlier agreement further stated that they felt it was of great importance that this issue should be resolved. In spite of this, however, it has not yet been possible to rectify the shortcomings caused by that judgment. After all, the judgment brought about an adjustment of the previous practice, in which aid was actually granted for monitoring under Section 95 of the Services Act around the municipalities. However, the judgment stated that it is only hours for personal and practical help at home, i.e. home help, that can be included in the overall measurement. It has then been of great importance to a great many citizens who, because of their disability, are unable to take care of themselves and who therefore need to be monitored because, for example, they are not able to take care of themselves. suffer from epilepsy or other forms of seizures where they need help. Before the judgment, according to the information we have at least received in the past and which we have also been informed of, the municipalities have followed the practice that monitoring was included in the total appropriation. Several families have had to throw the towel into the ring because they have been in an unsustainable situation, where they, for example, have been in a position to do so. has been forced to send the young people into a residence offer. In addition, there is also the whole problem of ALS patients, where I think we should work for flexible aid packages. It is no use not being able to get the help you need, so it must be the case that you can continuously and according to your needs increase in the number of hours of aid without having to go through a lengthy process of complaint. Following the previous enquiry debate, all the parties of the Danish Parliament were behind this text of adoption: the Danish Parliament calls on the government to find a solution as soon as possible to the monitoring problem in relation to severely disabled people who cannot be executives but who want to live at home, including among other things: in relation to the transition from child to adult life. Monitoring is essential because the person may urgently need help because of e.g. failure or an epileptic attack. Monitoring may be an alternative to placement in a residential or nursing home. However, a judgment of the Court of Justice of 2015 stated that there is no legal basis in the Service Act for the municipalities to grant assistance for monitoring. In practice, this means that the relatives are forced to monitor the person around the clock or apply for accommodation in a 24-hour institution away from the family and everything the person knows and is safe with. The situation is not sustainable for the affected families. It was a unanimous Parliament that voted through that adoption. This bill does not comply with the common text of adoption, although it is a small step in the right direction, but it is not enough. Several of the consultation responses point to the need for a monitoring website without time and age constraints. I must also say that it has been a very, very short consultation period, and I would have liked this draft law to have been put forward earlier, because the consultation answers also point out various things: LEV welcomes the fact that the draft law takes a first step towards addressing the challenges facing the families concerned, but considers the proposed system to be completely inadequate in terms of overall needs. And the Epilepsy Association also sees it as a first step, but it also reports that this is a small step in the right direction. That is why there are a lot of consultation answers that also point out that this can be much better. I must stress that, of course, we support this tiny step in the right direction, because this is actually something we have been fighting for too long in the Danish People's Party, and I would also like to thank the parties who raised it during the financial negotiations and who have brought this part with us. I am thinking in particular of my colleague who has been with us all the way through, Jakob Silverhøj from the Enhedslisten, and we have fought the battle in the Social Affairs Committee, so I would certainly like to say thank you for that part. However, I look forward to perhaps improving this proposal for a directive in committee or at least we can work together to ensure that it is better for all those who need it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, so the rapporteur can go down. Karina Adsbøl (DF): Oh, no). After all, it is wonderful when the rapporteurs are happy to stand up on the platform, but that does not give any more speaking time. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153140	Thank you. When we adopted the Finance Act for this year, we concluded a partial agreement on night surveillance in our own homes for young people with severe disabilities, and it is this agreement that we are translating into law today. I was touched by the many reports we received about the monitoring problem, which daily causes a great deal of damage to the families affected and which provide an incentive to send young people who need night surveillance to the institution instead of being able to stay in their own home for a long time. But that is what we are doing today for a large part of the target group. Thus, young people between 18 and 23 are able to have home surveillance, and this should reduce the group with this particular need quite strongly, and we are very pleased with that. Like the previous speakers, we also agree that it is not the whole group that is being covered, because it was not the money for that, but we would like both in committee and in the future to look at what we can do further. In the first place, I have to say that we are very pleased with this and, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153232	There are two questions. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153234	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to hear the radical rapporteur on future work. For this is a tiny step in the right direction, but we have a whole, larger group that also needs help. So what will the Radicals do in committee: will you help to see if you can change this so that more people can come under the target group? Now I know that there is a lot of talk about economics in this time, but you just have to say that there are a lot of billions that have gone crazy out of the Treasury, so from this perspective you can think in this case: why can't you help people with disabilities by expanding the target group? Perhaps the rapporteur can reply to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153324	Thank you. Firstly, I completely disagree with the question that this is a tiny step; it is talking it down. What we are doing here is a concrete step in which we succeed in coming ashore with a political result that the questioner has not managed to get ashore with in the past. It is a product of the financial law negotiations. We have prioritised the means here to take a major step in the right direction, which is concrete and of great importance to real people, and it does not serve any purpose to call it a tiny step and to pretend that we are not doing anything important here. Secondly, the money we spend in the aid packages around Corona is very large amounts. That is right, but it is one-off costs that will be charged in a different way than when we set up the current operating costs for the state. So these are two completely structurally different cash boxes that the questioner here is mixing together, and we are trying to avoid that. It is permanent expenditure in one place and it is one-off expenditure in the other place and it has a very different effect on the state's finances. As far as further work is concerned, we are prepared, in line with what the rapporteur of the Left said, to look at how we can do this as wisely as possible in committee. We are also prepared to see what further opportunities are available in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153429	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153430	Thank you for the rapporteur's reply. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: so the Radical Left is willing to look at whether you could land a joint report on this and ensure that you could continue working on it so that you do not put this age limitation on, but can extend the target group so that those who need help can also get help? It is a good thing that young people can, but it is a tiny target group out of those who need help. So is the Radical Left prepared for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153508	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is the product of a financial agreement concluded between a number of parties which do not include the Danish People's Party, where we have prioritised funds for the area, and that is the means we are now translating into law. And it is clear that we would like to look at how best to use that economy, but we will not go out in committee and break the framework of the economy that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153533	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153535	I would like to drill a little into the premise of this: that it should cost the state money, that the municipalities should be allowed to do something. Was it challenged during the financial law negotiations in which the Radical Left participated, that is to say, that it is said to the municipalities that they are allowed to help citizens if they in the municipality decide to do so and that the claim by the government is that it costs the state money? Was it challenged? Does the Radical Left agree that it must cost the state money if the municipalities are allowed to provide a service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153612	Thank you. The reality is that when the municipalities get this opportunity, they also say in the negotiations with the state that it will have a certain cost and that it is therefore part of the economic negotiations that lie. That is the reality in which such things are decided. We haven't challenged that specifically in this question, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153633	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153634	That's very strange. The municipalities are allowed to build 20 swimming pools. But the fact that they are allowed to do so does not mean that they have a cost. After all, they decide whether to build 20 swimming pools, and this is also a service provided to citizens, and the municipality decides whether the municipality will provide that service. The fact that the State allows the municipality to provide that service does not mean that the municipality should do so, and therefore it does not mean that it should lead to the municipalities having a claim to the State that the state should make some money. I simply do not understand that there can be adult parties sitting around a table in a budget debate and agreeing KL that if the state allows the municipalities to do this, then the state must come up with some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153720	I hope with this text, with this law, we create an expectation for the 18-23-year-olds that they can expect to have surveillance in their homes when they need it and that they will press their municipalities to give them that help. So in this case, I have to say that yes, I am counting on us to create an expectation of an additional consumption out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153741	Then another question came up. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153743	Thank you so much. I just made it. A little bit derived from the debate that has just been going on, I wonder a little bit about these young people who come in with this, where they get the opportunity to get help at home and get this surveillance. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it is some young people who should alternatively be on a settlement offer, where they also get that support and help, because they are not growing out of this either development impairment or this disability, but that it is something that is quite permanent for this group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153819-2	Thank you. To the extent that we can arrange ourselves in a way so that we can have a larger group included, I would like to look at it. In concrete terms, however, it can be seen that parents have taken on the task of 24-hour surveillance, which is very serious for these families, because these families do not want the child to go to an institution and want to retain it at home and therefore take on a task which is huge. Here we are doing some concrete relief for these families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153846	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153847	Yes, and it's a step on the way, and it's really good, but does the baby stop being your child when it's 24 years old instead of 23 years old? No, it doesn't, and I might think it's a little weird to look at a physical age at someone who has such a severe disability as these. These are some who, for the rest of their lives, will need this support and help, so it makes no sense to set an age limit on it. However, I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that when they come over the 23rd year and into the 24th year and then, unfortunately, do not have this opportunity anymore, they will still need that help, but will just be forced into an institution or a settlement where they get that help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153926	Thank you. As it is today, that event occurs when the child reaches the age of 18. At least with this, we'll have it moved when the baby's over at the age of 23. Of course, there is nothing in it for the children/parent relationship to change, and that is not what the questioner asked me. But here I have to say that we are making a very concrete advance on the moment of this incident. Then you can discuss whether it is good or bad that it happens, but I have to say that it is an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153955	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528153955-2	This is not an area in which I usually interfere, but because I am actually involved on the private front in this particular issue, I would like to take the floor to say that we are, and I hope everyone agrees, absolutely have to do what we can to ensure that young people, whether they are 18 years old, 23 years old, 25 years old or whatever it may be, can be with their families. I have no doubt that the very hard-working and well-meaning employees who are around the many institutions in the country are doing their absolute best. But I have also seen a great many of them, and I would say that there are not many where, as a parent, you want to see your child, no matter what age the child has, you should have your future life. So I believe that we absolutely must do what we can to relieve the families who, in general terms, wholeheartedly and dedicated not only put everyday life, but all their lives into helping their children. I do not think anyone has seen what that sector looks like which, with its conscience, could come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154101	Then I feel convinced that, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the questioner will vote in favour of the clear improvement we are making in terms of conditions for these families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154110	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154129	Thank you. Politics is about people, which is why it is good that today we can deal with a proposal that can help young people with disabilities and their families. Since 2015, three successive social ministers have said that the issue of monitoring needs to be resolved so that the right offer can be made and thus avoid forced institutionalisation, and only now, five years later, something is happening. In the SF, we believe that there can be no doubt whatsoever that the provision of the Services Act in § 95 should be amended or adapted so that a large number of families and their young people no longer have to live in uncertainty about what will happen when the young people turn 18 years of age. That is why we have been fighting for this legislation for several years, and we are therefore also pleased that we have managed to get this through in the Finance Act. And I would very much like to thank both the conciliation parties and the Minister. And I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the DF, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who has been a strong co-founder in this matter. A year ago, I met Eva at an election debate in Langå, Randers Municipality. Eva told me about the difficult situation that her daughter Emilie is about to face. Emilie was born with severe epilepsy, which means that she should be monitored daily, 24 hours a day. The surveillance has her mother, Eva, been responsible for, and she's lost earnings as she can't work while she's watching Emilie. Eva has sent us a greeting in connection with the first reading of the proposal: As the mother of an otherwise relatively well-functioning girl with severe epilepsy who requires 24-hour surveillance, I have feared her 18th birthday. With the current law on automatic stoppage, it will in all likelihood mean that she will be forced from home, forced into a settlement. For a number of years I have fought for my daughter's right to self-determination in order to guarantee her the right to decide on her own future, not least to decide for herself when and where she is moving when she is once ready to leave the safe environment with me. My daughter now has the opportunity to stay at home until she turns 23, just as many other young people choose to do. The next step is that we completely remove the age limit and thus ensure that, as a society, instead of looking at the individual human being and assessing according to the individual's needs. The fight continues, but with this amendment we are a step closer to equality and dignity for our young people with disabilities. Emilie and I cross our fingers so we can now look forward to her 18th birthday. In the SF, we would also have liked to see a change of law without an age limit, without limitation in aid at night, or that there was at least better scope for exemption. Because if it is best for a young man aged 24-25 to stay at home, it must be possible to do so, just as an elderly woman with all sorts can also have the possibility of home surveillance. That is why, in the long term, we must ensure a system that meets the needs of people with disabilities, not a system in which people with disabilities can be squeezed into a position due to rigid age limits. We in the SF are satisfied with the amendment tabled by the Minister, which leads to a relaxation in relation to the requirement to obtain a derogation. However, we remain concerned about the criterion that a doctor should assess the young person's illness as being life-threatening and with a maximum period of 2 years. These requirements may mean that far fewer young people will be given the opportunity to be monitored than was actually intended by the proposal. We are, of course, in agreement with the financial law negotiations, but we would like to stress that we have always been puzzling about the calculations of the proposal. In line with some of the consultation parties, the CP Association and the DH Association believe that within the framework of the 60 million. kr. that has been allocated should be enough money to both raise the age limit and introduce a more useful derogation practice. And that is why it is also good that we, among the conciliation parties, agree that the scheme should be evaluated in 1-2 years' time. We look forward to this so that, as legislators, we can get a clear picture of how many citizens this is about and what it has actually cost. With those comments, the SF votes in favour of the proposal and we welcome the fact that a group of young people with disabilities are now being given the opportunity to monitor at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154549	There are no questions, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528154602	Thank you. I must say that I am delighted that today we can deal with a legislative proposal which finally addresses the deeply serious problem that arose when the Vestre Landsret issued a judgment just over five years ago which meant that there was no legal basis for continuing the practice of providing support for the monitoring of citizens with disabilities who received assistance under section 95 of the Services Act. 3. Thus, the possibility of support was literally torn away from a few hundred families, for whom the support for monitoring is absolutely essential in order to make life connected to families where, by virtue of their disability, a young or perhaps a spouse can constantly find himself in a life-threatening situation, for example. as a result of epilepsy or missinking; families who may thus be forced and, for some, have been forced to make the difficult choice that the young person or the spouse had to move to a residence offer with 24-hour surveillance instead of staying with the family. It is simply heartbreakingly unfair. During the five years since the ruling of the Court of Justice, families have fought to restore the possibility of receiving support for monitoring. The Enhedslisten, together with other parties, has worked hard to change the situation. I would also like to sign up to the Danish People's Party's Disability Rapporteur for the great work that she and the Danish People's Party have done in this matter. It has kept unusually hard along the way. It has not been short of understanding on the part of successive ministers when we have discussed it; it has just not been acted upon. The matter has been unduly delayed, it has been impossible to clarify the economy, and concrete proposals for a solution have actually been completely absent. I would also like to say that, fortunately, that situation has changed after we have a new government. I'd like to sign for that. At the same time, however, I would like to say that this has not changed quite as much in a direction that we would like to see in the Enhedslisten. We are very pleased that we reached agreement at the Finance Act negotiations on ensuring the possibility of support for night surveillance for young people between 18 and 23 years of age, but I would like to emphasise here that we find it deeply regrettable that monitoring support is age-limited and that it will not include aid 24 hours a day. That is why we also regard the proposal we are debating today as a first step to be followed by several, so that all citizens with disabilities who receive assistance under Article 95 (1). 3 and have a monitoring need, also being given the right to receive the necessary assistance for monitoring. It should not be a secret that it has been difficult to get to where we are today. The uncertainty surrounding the economy, when we have discussed it with previous ministers, has to some extent been allowed to survive. There was confusion, unfortunately, about the economy when we negotiated the Finance Act, and in the discussions we have had on the implementation of the proposal, I think there has also been a consensus between the government and the conciliation parties that there is, to say the least, a muddy situation around the economy, which we simply need to clarify. It is the clear view of the Enhedslisten that, with the financial framework we agreed in the financial law negotiations, it would have been possible to secure support for monitoring, if not for all the citizens who should be covered by the right to support for monitoring, so at least for far more citizens. We have come a little bit, even after the financial law negotiations, with the agreement we have made, so a derogation provision has now been incorporated which allows for an extension beyond the 24th year. And we are very pleased that there is agreement that we need to have a thorough account of the economic consequences that are in the process of implementing the legislative proposal. I have to say that I have no doubt that it will prove possible to extend the scheme, even within the financial framework we have provided for in the last financial law. And in any case, I can guarantee that it will be a very high priority for the Enhedslisten that we will ensure, as soon as possible, that all citizens of the target group have a right of support for monitoring.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155053	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155107	Thank you. As the legislation is today, it is not possible to provide monitoring and support in your own home as part of the assistance in schemes under Section 95 of the Services Act. 3 on cash grants for the recruitment of assistants, where the management functions are carried out by someone close to them. This means that citizens who, because of their disability, need monitoring and support at night alongside personal and practical help at home cannot get it. If the need for monitoring and support is to be met for this group of citizens, the individual citizen can accept a 24-hour accommodation offer where the staff can look to the citizen and provide support at night with the other help. This means that young people with a disability and a need for night surveillance and support from the day of their 18th birthday have to move on accommodation at the age of 18, even though they may not be ready to leave home. I have read quite a few heartbreaking stories from families where their children at the age of 18 had to decide whether their 18-year-olds should move on 24 hours a day or stay at home. I am a parent myself, and as a parent I can put myself fully in their position. It must be a terrible dilemma and a situation to face. With the bill here we create the possibility that young people aged 18 to 23 with severe disabilities and extensive disability, who need monitoring and support at night, can be given a home help as a cash grant and thus stay with their parents and not feel compelled to accept a residence offer in order to get help and be seen at night. This will help to bring about a better transition to adulthood for young people who need night surveillance, and the Conservative People's Party supports this. Finally, in relation to the last part of the proposal for a derogation, I would like to mention that young people who, following a medical assessment, suffer from a currently life-threatening disease must be able to continue to receive surveillance in their own homes until they die, but for no more than two years, as the bill says, so that young people do not have to accept a residence offer in the latter part of their lives in order to get the necessary help at night. We also support that part of the bill by the Conservatives, but we believe that we should include the medical association's consultation responses and their proposals on the criteria in relation to this part of the draft law in the further work of the committee. However, as mentioned above, Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155406	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155427	Thank you. This bill, as was said earlier, is a step on the road. It is basically a question of whether families have the opportunity to take care of their children at home with help, or whether families simply have to be forced into giving their allegiance to an institution or in a 24-hour offer. So families who want to take care of their children regardless of age are trapped in the system right now. And it simply cannot be right that families who actually want to take care of their children at home cannot be helped. With this bill we come a little bit along the way, but when we talk about people with such severe disabilities as this group has, it doesn't make any sense to talk about a physical age, because it can be hugely different. I know we're not allowed to use props, but I've found an article in Frederiksborg County newspaper, where, among other things, there. is mentioned a young man who is 24 years old. He won't be able to get this help, and this family is so pressured that they can no longer get help with this age limit. And that is not the way it should be. So when you talk about children, young people or adults with such severe disabilities as these, we have to give priority to families being able to take care of their close at home and that, because of rigid rules, no family is forced to deliver their child or close to an institution when they actually want to take that responsibility at home and take care of them. In fact, I can hardly imagine anything worse than getting into this kind of rigidity. That is why we are also going to ask for assistance to get an amendment tabled, in which we will get some of these things done, precisely because we want to take account of the fact that, as a family, we must, of course, be able to take care of our dear and loved ones at home with the support and help that is needed. It must never be the case that as a family you are forced to deliver your child either in a home offer or at a 24-hour institution on this basis. But we support the bill. It is a step in the right direction, but we would like to see the problem resolved completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155709	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in a series of rapporteurs to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528155719	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also votes in favour of the bill, which we, like the other parties, recognise as a legislative proposal that makes things better than they are today. But we are full of questions as to why we are not simply extending the possibility for the municipalities to offer this aid instead of being as limited as it is in the draft law here. We agree that the National Association of Municipalities claims that offering families with, for example, an additional cost is an additional cost. disabled children the possibility of night surveillance, if necessary, under the Service Act. That's what the National Association of Municipalities says. However, we do not agree that allowing the municipalities to choose for themselves whether to offer that service or not to provide that service constitutes a financing requirement for the municipalities, of which they are entitled to have the State cover part. That is just one of the strangest things I have ever heard. In all possible areas, municipalities have the opportunity to provide services to citizens: more educators, more teachers, fewer children in classes, new swimming pools, new sports facilities, etc. The municipalities are allowed to do so because, strangely enough, it is not prohibited by law, and then the claim is that if, in this one area, the municipalities are allowed to provide that service, the pressure is so great that the service is provided that, almost by allowing the municipalities, they are charged with an expense. If this were to be a precedent, we would have to ban all kinds of municipal services, because this would give citizens the opportunity to go to the municipality and say: we would like the service, we would like an extra swimming pool, we would like more educators in kindergarten, we would like fewer children in the class. After all, it is expensive and because it is not prohibited for the state, the state will have to finance that there may be that pressure on the municipalities to provide the service. I do not understand any of the fact that the government is under this pressure from the National Association of Municipalities, that is, because they are not forbidden to provide a service, the state has to pay some of the money for it. I do not understand it, and I do not understand the majority that has been sitting in the financial negotiations and accepted that it should be possible for the National Association of Municipalities to say: if you do not forbid us to provide this service, you will have to give us some money. I think it is a weak majority in the Folketing that is under this pressure, and it is not just the government that I am disappointed in here. It is also the other Finance Bill parties, it is the Enhedslisten, it is the SF, it is the Radical Left and the Alternative. Why do you put up with dancing after the National Association of Municipalities' pipe here? We will vote in favour of the bill, and then we will have to wait until there is another majority in the Danish Parliament to inform the National Association of Municipalities that this is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160052	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160056	Thank you for that, and I am sorry to have disappointed the rapporteur. It may be about different ideologies in terms of how our systems are really going to work in this country. However, the rapporteur acknowledges that there is a difference between saying that this is possible in the municipality and having a legal right to what is actually being introduced with this amendment. After all, this is a monitoring exercise that citizens can claim, and they have access to justice and such things. It just makes the situation a little different, because that is the way it is and I will be the last to defend KL in this case because of the problem of the calculations that when we legislate and require the municipalities to perform a large number of tasks for us, then there must also be some kind of reasonableness and balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160152	Yeah, if you make a legal claim, and you do that with this bill, but you couldn't do that. One could just go back to the state before the court judgment, which was that it could the municipalities do if they wanted to. Then came a verdict which claimed that the Service Act does not allow us to provide that service, and then we are in this situation now. But the condition before the judgment was that it was up to the municipalities themselves if they wanted to provide the service. You could've just come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160223	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160226	Yes, you could, but frankly I do not think that is the best solution for the citizens, because we have to bear in mind that the citizens must have a legal requirement, and they must have that regardless of which municipality they choose to settle in. So there must not be too great a difference in how one chooses to implement this legislation. So somewhere we also have to have some kind of common denominator when we talk about helping people with disabilities. It must not blur in the wind in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160255	So according to the SF, it is simply better that if you are up to 24 years old, you have a legal right to receive this help, whereas if you are over 24 years old, there is absolutely no possibility of getting that help, even if the municipality wants to provide the help. It is better than all citizens being able to get that help if their municipality agrees to provide it. I don't think so. I think the most important thing is that all municipalities are allowed to provide that help to all citizens if the municipalities so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160325	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160332	Thank you. The reason we are standing here is because there are citizens with disabilities and very serious diseases who need monitoring, not least at night. It may be a 19-year-old who, for example, because of a disease or disability. In the middle of the night, for example, there is a risk of being in an incredibly critical situation. Can't breathe. It can be a very serious and potentially life-threatening situation that requires someone nearby to help. In order to respond to this, we have also helped in the alternative to draw up and adopt a financial law which sets money aside for monitoring. Initially, it can cover support for parents who want to keep their children aged 18-23 at home so that they can monitor them themselves instead of sending them to an institution. This has been incredibly welcomed in many families who have lived under enormous pressure because they had to monitor their children and young people around the clock. But I also have contact with a member of our party who has an adult sister who requires 24-hour surveillance, and she's not happy with this law, because it stops at 23 years. That is why, of course, it is also important for us in the Alternative to continue to fight to abolish the age limit and to ensure that support for monitoring and 24-hour care applies to all those who need it in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160457	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160500	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now I have listened to these speeches, including from those who have been sitting at the negotiating table, among others. The Enhedslisten and SF, and all the other rapporteurs today, who all problematize the age limit of 23 years. So what you're thinking is, why did it land there? So I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur: what now? How do we get out of here? Will the alternative rapporteur fight with the Danish People's Party and stop the government from introducing what is contained in the proposal for adoption that we jointly adopted? It says precisely that a solution must be found. There are also nursing homes mentioned: an alternative to housing or nursing homes. So it's also about those who are older. So how do we get out of here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160605	It's hard for me to stand and speak on behalf of others, but I can do it on ours. Yeah, we're gonna keep fighting. And without putting any words into my mouth, I have experienced the concern of all the politicians who have been involved in adopting this, that the latter part has not been included: that is, that there is an age limit at all. When I have such a clear concern, I also have the expectation that we can move on with it. I can't stand here on the platform negotiating finance law, but my gut tells me that this is something we're just as quietly going to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160641	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160643	The reason I'm asking is that I'm just trying to figure out who might have prevented this target group from expanding. Because when I hear these parties in the Parliamentary Chamber, I hear that they all want to expand this target group in relation to the fact that it is not about a certain age, but that you can get the help you need, regardless of your age. So the only question is why was it not adopted and whether anyone was against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160717	Well, I don't want to stand here and open up this kind of negotiation. This is, of course, done in confidence. What I have seen is that the stories that have been about young people who cannot breathe at night in the context of epilepsy, and those who really require monitoring, have made a huge impression on us all, including the government, and that is why we have given priority to taking a huge step in relation to the solution. It is, of course, the case with legislation, and often when the economy is involved, that you do something about it: take a big step, and that is also with a view to getting on with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160756	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the last person to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528160804	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. I would like to sign for the receipt of the bill and for the constructive debate that has taken place in the Chamber today. As you know, the draft law here translates part of the financial law agreement for 2020. The aim of the draft law is to provide the legal basis for monitoring and support at night for young people with significant job losses between the ages of 18 and 23 in their own homes and to introduce a derogation to keep this aid for up to two years further if at the age of 24 you suffer from a life-threatening disease. The bill here ensures a better transition to adult life for a group of young people with very severe disabilities and their hard-pressed families, who have been waiting a long time for a solution to the problem of lack of legal basis in the Services Act for monitoring and supporting them. In this context, I would like to express my support for the large and ongoing focus on the matter from the parties of the Danish Parliament, and I am sincerely pleased that we are now actually speaking not only, but also in action where we can adopt a legislative amendment which will hopefully bring about a significant improvement for the families concerned. It is no secret that it has been difficult to reach agreement with the KL on the economy. Things also need to be able to hang together in the municipalities. We haven't been able to convince KL that they do. That is why we aim to make up our minds when the system has worked a little time. Either way, I see this bill as an important step towards improving the situation of a group of weak young people and their families. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that the committee might wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings, but most of all today, I am actually very pleased that we have now come as far as we are with a discussion that has filled so much and been so fruitless since that judgment fell back in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161007	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161011	Thank you so much. I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister really believes that a physical age can be used as a guide for young people with such a difficult disability as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161034	When there is the age limit in this bill, you can point out two reasons for it. One reason is that the draft law here aims to ensure a better transition to adulthood for a group of young people. And there I very much agree with the rapporteur that the number 18 is not such a magic number; then you are suddenly mature and ready to leave home. This also applies to young people who do not have disabilities and disabilities. However, this is perhaps particularly the case with this particularly vulnerable group, which is why I am glad that with this bill we can open up more time for it and a better course for moving away from home. Then there is also the other side of the story here, namely that there must be an economy and funding of things. And if there wasn't to be, and this was just free to introduce, then I assume that the Danish People's Party under the previous government had done something about this a long time ago. So the answer is twofold: With this bill, we focus on ensuring a better transition to adulthood for a group of young people, but there must of course also be an economy, and that gives some limitations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161140	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161141	Now, I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had a very good point before, for it was apparently possible for the municipalities without, what should we say, help from in here to do it before this judgment from 2015. And I would really like the Minister to deal with an article in Frederiksborg Amtsavis, which I also mentioned from the platform before. And it is about a family that is deeply shaken because they have a very, very severely handicapped boy that they simply want to take care of at home. He has just turned 24, and the newspaper has then asked the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior why severely disabled people over 24 cannot be supported to stay at home if the parents so wish. And now I quote the Minister: "I am glad that young people and their families can have a good transition before young people leave home. But you don't have to stay at home all the time. There I have to ask whether it is generally the view of the Minister that it is the Minister who must dictate how the families should behave.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161231	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161231-2	Firstly, I should like to take this opportunity to clarify a misunderstanding. For it is a misunderstanding if one has got a picture that all municipalities over a comb granted surveillance at night before the judgment in 2015. We can also try to elaborate on that. However, it is not the case that people had de facto access to it everywhere. Then I would say: no, I am not the one who has to decide when to leave home. However, we are now dealing with a system in which public funds finance this monitoring at night, and that is why we have to deal with how far that funding can go and what can then be a natural limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161312	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161315	I have to say to the Minister that the Danish People's Party has fought for this for a long time, including in negotiations where the Social Democrats have been sitting around the table, among others. in the rate pool negotiations. Then I would like to ask whether the Minister can confirm today that the municipalities are dut-compensated for the BPA arrangements. That's one thing. And the second question I would like to ask is, in relation to the joint motion for a resolution that we have adopted, V 10: Does the Minister think that this draft law meets the proposal for adoption that a majority of Parliament's parties have written and adopted in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161355	First of all, I do not think I have heard anyone today do anything other than acknowledge that this is something that has taken up many parties for a long time. What I allowed myself to do was to note that this did not happen in the years when the Danish People's Party was a parliamentary basis for a government, and when agreement was reached on even a few financial laws where it could have been passed through here. And that means that there are some families who have waited a very long time for the solution that is now being presented with the bill today and which, fortunately, can come into force shortly because of the financial agreement the government entered into with the Finance Law parties before Christmas and thanks for that to you. I think it is good to hear the Liberal Alliance say here too: then we will have to fix it when we get back into government. At any rate, it has not been fixed if one can say so much about something so important and complicated before we stand here today. Then I would say that I think we are taking a very important step here today. However, it is clear, and I think I have also been very open about this, that there are the restrictions linked to the age limit in the funding that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161457	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161459	In any case, it has to be said that the government has been pressured into action in this area. I have previously been in negotiations with the Social Democratic Party on this very subject. However, we can discuss that when the Minister wants to make a sharp shot in that way. But the second part I would like to ask is: does the Minister believe that this draft law put forward by the Minister is in line with the joint motion for a resolution we have adopted here in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161524	However, I have to add a few words to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, because one thing is to raise something in a political debate; another is to accept that there is the financial framework that is needed for this to be done. And now I am not going to refer to much in-depth from the course of the negotiations, but more than once I have seen that more demands and wishes are being made on the table than there is money for the Danish People's Party, which is often and often the case, that is to say, that you want more than you can necessarily get. So I don't recognize that picture. I fully acknowledge the Danish People's Party's struggle for this matter, but I also have to say that it is only here today that it will become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161602	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161604	I am only taking the floor to repeat Mrs Karina Adsbøl's question, which the Minister has now not answered in two rounds: does the Minister believe that the bill here complies with the proposal for adoption adopted by a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161619	But I actually replied to that at the end of my first reply. I tried to do so, but my teaching skills are perhaps short, because with the resolution here I mean that we are getting a really important part of that discussion, and I also agree, and I have not been told that there is a target group in the discussion that is bigger than the one that we are succeeding with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161639	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161641	One step down the road is the answer from the Minister. So the answer here to the question whether the draft law complies with the proposal for adoption adopted by the majority of the Danish Parliament is that it complies with it some way along the way, i.e. it does not quite meet the proposal for adoption, which the Social Democrats have also voted in favour of. What is the explanation for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161702	Now, you have to be careful not to be polemical, but if the very great concern on this subject had filled a lot for the previous government, it could have been solved earlier. That is why I would like to say that, with the legislative proposal we are adopting here today, which fortunately will come into force shortly and will, hopefully, come to some hard-pressed families with very great help, with great importance for their quality of life and their everyday lives, we will come a very important step along the road from that text of adoption and from a discussion which has had many years on its back and where many financial laws have gone and come without a solution being found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161737	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161753	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528161818	Thank you. Denmark is too small for big differences. Wherever you live in Denmark, you should be able to have a legitimate expectation that there is a proper welfare society for you and your family. This has been the starting point of the Social Democracy for a new compensation scheme that redistributes several welfare crowns between municipalities. Today the municipalities have very different basic conditions to operate the municipality. For example, Gentofte has more than twice as much tax base as Brønderslev. As another example, the municipality of Brøndby has 26%. immigrants and descendants from non-western countries, while Hørsholm, for comparison, has only 6%. And every time Lyngby-Taarbæk Municipality forcibly removes 1 child, 97 children are forcibly removed from Lolland. The differences in the basic economic conditions of the municipalities must not be excessive. If they do, we will drag Denmark at a disadvantage, and we do not want that. That is why there was also a fundamental task on the table of the Socialist Government to correct some of the imbalances that exist in the municipal economy. It was therefore a bottom-up task to achieve a compensatory reform. I am therefore very pleased that we have managed to land the new compensatory reform with a broad agreement, in which we are taking a major step in the right direction in resolving the tied tasks that were and in which we are also lifting the municipalities' ability to fund welfare in general. If we look at the agreement, there are a whole range of things that I am particularly pleased about. I am very pleased that we are moving money from the big cities to the municipalities where there is a little longer between houses. A total of 1.4 billion is being moved. kr. to the outermost municipalities of Denmark. It contributes to a much better balance between the country and the city, so that the differences do not grow too large. In addition, we move money from a number of the wealthier municipalities to a number of municipalities that are more financially challenged. The agreement increases the contribution of the wealthiest municipalities, so municipalities with the greatest challenges will get more money to solve, for example, the social problems. Finally, we are not only redistributing the municipal economy we are also lifting it. The whole of Denmark is heavily affected by the corona crisis at the moment, and it seems that we will still be for a while. Therefore, it is not enough simply to redistribute among the municipalities • we also need to ensure a robust bottom under the municipalities' finances, and this requires more money. That is why I am pleased that the agreement provides the municipalities with additional funding of 6.5 billion. kr. next year, and that we increase the municipal opportunity to finance welfare with a total of 5.5 billion. kr. Every year with the agreement that we are dealing with now. Then I think there is reason to dwell on the fact that it is secured by a broad majority. Now we have to be careful not to use the concept of historical, but I think it is the case that we have to go back to the 1970s to find the last agreement on compensation that was reached over the middle. I think that is an achievement that we can afford to be quite proud of. After all, it is important for all agreements to try to make them as broad as possible, but with an agreement that is so crucial to the municipal economy, there is particular reason to rejoice that it is broad because it provides calm and stability around the local economy in the years to come. That is why I would like to sum up by saying that we want a better balance for Denmark, where there is the possibility of financing the welfare of all the municipalities in the country. We are taking a major step towards this with the agreement, which is why we naturally support the agreement. I am extremely pleased that it has landed and look forward to it coming to work as early as next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162211	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162214	It is the same every time we hear the Socialists talking about this compensatory reform: that in the whole rhetorical structure of the speech it is as if there is no compensation in advance, as if the municipalities today only live on their own money. But there is a huge amount of compensation in advance, even before this bill is adopted. What the Social Democrats should have done, as the government should have done, was to show that there is not a proper welfare society anywhere in Denmark, so there is therefore a need to move some more money. But try to let me read here what it says about, for example. the sports facilities in different municipalities in Denmark in a publication from Danmarks Statistik, which appeared in October 2019, i.e. a quite new publication: At the top, more than ten times as many people share a sports hall at Frederiksberg compared to Lemvig. So why is it that Frederiksberg has to pay a lot of extra money to Lemvig when there are ten times as many people about a sports hall at Frederiksberg than there are in Lemvig?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162317	First of all, I am glad that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can see that when we talk about and discuss the compensatory reform, we say the same thing in the course of the debate. I guess that says something about a certain consistency in the arguments. Compared to comparing the municipal economy between municipalities, I believe that a slightly more nuanced picture needs to be taken than comparing the number of swimming pools or football stadiums alone. I think it has to be said that the government of which Ole Birk Olesen's party was a member, and in which Ole Birk Olesen was also a minister, tried to land a compensatory reform, because that government had the same analysis as the current government in terms of the problem, namely that there are too many differences between the municipalities' ability to finance welfare, and that there was therefore a need to make the compensatory reform that the previous government failed with, but which we are fortunately succeeding with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162414	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162415	- Sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen mentions one, two or three municipalities where the welfare society is not good enough to justify that we have to take some money from some municipalities and give to those municipalities so that they can finally have a proper welfare society by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162436	Yes, I have visited a large number of municipalities where you run too fast; where there is not enough time to handle core welfare tasks. For example, it is municipalities on Lolland Falster that are struggling with massive social challenges that we are now giving them better opportunities to deal with. I guess you can just say in all seriousness that if you look at the recommendation of the committee of experts on which we have based our work, they say very clearly that people are moving to the Copenhagen area and the large cities along the east coast, and that the tax base in those cities is thus increasing more than elsewhere. And that is why the imbalance that exists is increasing in the years ahead, and that is what we want to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162525	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162530	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The Social Democrats' rapporteur is spreading out that this agreement represents a permanent boost to the well-being of 6.5 billion. kr., as far as I heard no, for 5.5 billion. kr. Will this mean that the money must be spent on welfare in the municipalities? Because I had the idea that I had understood it so that the service framework put some restrictions on this. But today the rapporteur can give an undertaking that all DKr 6.5 billion. can be used for welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162606	I know sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl well enough to know that I believe that you know that it is the annual debates on the municipality economy that determine the service framework, and it is the service framework that defines how much money the municipalities can spend on welfare. However, it is clear that when you strengthen the financing of the municipalities, you give more municipalities the opportunity to reach their service framework, and that is why we lift the welfare with a better equalisation reform here, where we strengthen the municipalities' economy in general. Then I would say that if we are generally concerned about the ability of the municipalities to provide good welfare, we should be delighted that we have a new government that wants to strengthen the economy of the municipalities and increase prosperity. We made a municipality agreement last year, which with one agreement strengthens the municipal opportunity to deliver more welfare than the last four combined under bourgeois rule, i.e. under the bourgeois government, which the Danish People's Party ensured was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162711	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162713	I have heard before that it has been said that it belongs in the municipal negotiations. But now that the rapporteur is standing on the floor and spreading out that this will increase welfare by 5.5 billion. kr. kr. Because over the years you have been quite close to hitting the overall service framework, so it is not because there is more air in the municipalities to spend extra money if you are not allowed to. So I take this as an expression of the fact that the municipal agreement, which I know is under way right now, will actually lead to the use of this 6.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162749	I can say that the government has an ambition to lift the service framework again, so that we again ensure better welfare in Denmark. That was one of the things we said to the Danes in the election campaign, and that is one of the things we will also do as we can to deliver on. That is why I also believe that with optimism, if we want to strengthen welfare, we can look forward to a municipal agreement, hopefully before that very long. However, there is no doubt that if we strengthen the ability of the municipalities to finance welfare by means of a compensatory reform such as this one, we will also ensure better welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162823	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162824	How do you want to make sure that this money doesn't just go to extra central government and management?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162831	We have local government autonomy in Denmark, and that is why it is the skilled members of the municipal councils that include the questioner, at least earlier, who has a responsibility to ensure that the money is spent sensibly on the ground. I have very much confidence in our city council out locally, although there may be flickers sometimes, where you will spend too much money on bureaucracy, but in general I am very confident that the municipalities will strengthen well-being considerably with the opportunities that are given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162910	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162911	Then I would recommend that the rapporteur try to look at the factual figures, because then you should not be so calm. The fact is that a municipality like Albertslund gets 5.4 million. kr. in this compensatory reform, and so it is a municipality which, at central administration and management, is being driven significantly more expensive than the surrounding municipalities • actually DKK 1,000. more expensive on average than the other municipalities. So if you drove Albertslund Municipality as efficiently as the surrounding municipalities, you could actually find 31 million. kr. annual budget. But what you are doing here is taking from the municipalities that are run efficiently and giving to an inefficient municipality. Is that government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528162953	I do not recognise the premise that Albertslund should be a municipality that has been driven inefficiently. I think you can come up with a piece like a municipal council by benchmarking administrative costs against other municipalities, but there are a lot of conditions that exist in a municipality and that can have an impact on how much money you should reasonably spend on administration. So I think maybe it's a little too simplistic a picture that's being drawn up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163023	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech that it was pleased that the large municipalities, i.e. Copenhagen, Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg, are delivering into the new compensatory reform. It is true that the four municipalities are the four municipalities that are sucking citizens out of the area, but the figures are that Copenhagen should deliver 465 million. kr. and Odense must have 47 million. kr. Aarhus must deliver 78 million. kr., and Aalborg must have 36 million. kr. Does the rapporteur think that it is a great deal to deliver to the other municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163109	That is not true when the questioner claims I mentioned these cities. It's wrong. What I said in my speech was that I welcome the fact that we are moving 1.4 billion. kr. from large cities to areas that are more sparsely populated, and these are the facts of our compensatory reform. When I think it is wise, it is because I grew up in a relatively sparsely populated municipality and set up in Southern Denmark, where I have been able to visit some of the municipalities where there are longer houses and where I can see that in a number of the municipalities it is more difficult to run the municipality than in other municipalities where there are closer houses and where it is easier to get economies of scale in. It's just that I fear that there can be a difference in what kind of treatment you give socially vulnerable, how good kindergarten you have. It is a difference which can be defined by whether it is a municipality where there is a long way between houses, or it is a municipality where economies of scale can be brought in, and these are some of the problems we solve with the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163222	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163223	However, if the rapporteur looks at the figures provided by Copenhagen, Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg for the new compensatory reform, then it is of course small change compared to the many, many young people these cities receive from the municipalities that the rapporteur rightly mentions lack of money for service. Then I just have to ask: could Copenhagen, which in their budgets and in their accounts has plenty of money in surplus, Odense, which expands and grows, Aarhus, which expands and grows, and Aalborg, which expands and grows and spends lots of money, not have delivered anything more to this compensatory reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163308	No, I believe that the balance that we have found in the reform is sensible, and I am pleased and proud that we are moving 1.4 billion. kr. from the larger cities to more sparsely populated areas. If we are to ensure that some of our young people stay in the more sparsely populated areas, I believe that some of what is crucial in this regard is to ensure that there are indeed educational offers out there, and that is one of the things that the current government, unlike the previous one, is very concerned about and has delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163338	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163345	Thank you for the floor. With the bill we are discussing here, we may be on one of these long-awaited runs. In any case, we are now finally in the process of establishing a municipal subsidy and compensation agreement. This is something that I can tell you personally I have been looking very much forward to as rapporteur for the Left, because it has taken a very long time. The draft law here proposes a wide range of changes which, overall, will ensure a simpler and more robust equalisation system. Among the many changes are: A number of initiatives which we in the Left are particularly pleased with. It acts among other things. on the inclusion of the employment subsidy in the general compensation and the halving of the compensation for foreigners are both things which the financing committee also recommended back in 2018. In addition, there is a permanent continuation of the liquidity grant of 3,5 billion. kr., which will create more security for the municipalities' finances. There is also the establishment of a new pool for vulnerable capital municipalities, a new grant for peripheral and island municipalities, a special grant for borderary municipalities and unchanged municipal tax and targeted subsidies for tax reductions. Regardless of how a compensation agreement is put together, there will always be some municipalities that receive a bill that they think is too large, and there will always be some municipalities that may even be very dissatisfied because they think they have not had enough money. I remember that almost a year ago, when I became rapporteur for this area, someone said to me: wait until you start these equalization negotiations, you will be called down by angry mayors who are dissatisfied, almost whatever the deal you are going to land. I would also like to say in this Chamber today that the process of negotiation itself has not been pretty. It's probably something that hasn't passed anyone's nose either. On the contrary, there was a bit of a farce at the beginning, in which the government withheld some significant calculations that many wanted, and at one time also leaked from the confidential negotiations. It wasn't a very pretty cocktail that short. In this way, the left also had the patience tested along the way. After all, we thought the agreement was so important that it was important to stick to the edge of the table and to keep fighting to achieve it. In fact, in the Left, we found it imperative that we sit and get our mark on the agreement so that the government's proposals were changed. It held hard, but it succeeded after all. We are very pleased that we got some of the things that were in the government's hands fixed and that we had some striking impressions made. And I have no doubt that with the many good initiatives we are also helping to create a more coherent Denmark. For the Left, it has been absolutely crucial that an agreement should meet our three fence posts that we set up before we entered the negotiating rooms. Firstly, the government's tax span was to be transformed into a total municipal tax freeze. Secondly, it was crucial for us in the Left that there should be security about the municipalities' finances by ensuring that the funding of the 3.5 billion. kr. was made permanent. Thirdly, we would also have a fight with the overpayment of foreigners. All three demands were met in the course of the negotiations, as well as a large number of other good things, and all in all I welcome the fact that we achieved our goal. We have got some things right that we have actually been struggling with, you might say, for a number of years. In short, I believe that this bill also helps to create more robust security for the municipalities. A number of errors have been corrected which have also been corrected to correct some imbalances in the equalisation system. Against this background, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163846	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163849	I fully agree that this was not a pretty course, and it is rare when the truth is revealed about what is going on when people have dark motives behind what they are doing. And it has been quite clear that the motive of the Social Democratic Party to make this compensatory reform has been to give some more money to some municipalities that have social democratic mayors. And it didn't look pretty when it was revealed that the Left's motive for making a compensatory reform was to get more money for municipalities where there is a Left Mayor. It is a pity that this sort of thing comes out in public and it doesn't look pretty. I agree with that. But why does the Left have such a policy that instead of fighting for something that is right and sensible, you just fight to reward the municipalities where there is a Left Mayor?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528163941	I have my doubts as to whether the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur has even followed suit. I have to say that. In the Left we haven't looked at where there was a Left Mayor at all. Excuse me, but do you know where I'm chosen? Do you know where I live, sir? Ole Birk Olesen? Because it's actually the case that with the proposal the government made, the City of Billund would have received considerably more money than what we ended up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164012	Thank you. I should also like to remind you that there is no direct indictment in the Parliamentary Assembly. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164018	Well, it's hard to make these criteria, so that exactly one's favourite municipality gets a lot of money if there are also some other left-wing people in some other municipalities that need to be accommodated. And there it may be difficult to make the criteria so that it exactly gives to your own municipality. But why is it important that Frederiksberg Municipality deliver 3 million? kr. to the municipality of Lemvig, for example. in Lemvig Municipality should be only 1,200 people about an athletic hall, while at Frederiksberg you should be 15,000 people about an athletic hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164051	I'm sorry I came to tell you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. I have to say that it is the case that, fortunately, we are also in favour of this in the Left, and there are great differences. No matter how much compensation we make, there will still be differences from municipality to municipality, and there must also be room for that. And the fact that Frederiksberg is a different priority than Tønder, I think we should also recognise that this is the freedom that city council members should be allowed to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164125	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164127	I understand on the Left that it was a victory that ensured that these extra 3.5 billion have been added permanently. kr. How does the rapporteur intend to ensure that this money goes to basic core welfare and not central administration and management in the municipalities as well? Because I guess that's not the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164145	I would say that I am very confident that the people will, of course, tick the town council members who they believe can best defend their interests. And yes, it is the council members who must help to ensure that this money is spent on some good things in the various municipalities. So in this way, I cannot dictate how the municipalities are going to spend this money. However, I can reassure the rapporteur that this creates greater security for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164215	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164217	It creates more space and space for gluttonous and crazy projects in the municipalities. That's what it does when we send money out there. During the last government, led by the Left, 2.5 billion were sent. kr. more to the municipalities. 434 million kr. of them went directly to increased central administration and management. So when the municipalities get more money in here from the state, they say: Hey, thanks for that, we can hire some more DJs. That's reality. And when the Left throws more money into this system, they also say hallelujah out there; now we can buy even more project manager consultants and everything else, just against what the Left stands and says to the people about what they are actually spending money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164258	We can always discuss, as the rapporteur says, what is gluttonous and what is necessary. I have to say that I was elected in Southern Denmark. I can see great differences in the way in which municipalities are run, even in my large circle. Then you can have different views on how to spend the money. That is fair enough, but I would say that like to blame all the municipalities for just glutting with the money, I think it is going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164331	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so we shall continue with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164345	Thank you. Finally, we are dealing with a legislative proposal for a compensatory reform. It has taken a long time to reach a broad consensus on the need for reform. And the indictment of everything that the reform has to do is also clear and clear. It must ensure simplification of the system, it must be long-term and it must provide better welfare throughout the country. All these objectives, which I do not think anyone can disagree with. But what are we dealing with now? Is it up to the goal? I'm afraid not. Is that a simplification? Oh, that's hard to say. There are still a great many parameters, and I believe that direct transparency is not exactly what it is. It can then be said that some of the pool funds have been simplified, where the distribution of funds is determined on the basis of a number of parameters. It is, of course, a simplification that does not have to be re-calculated every year, and the fact that as a municipality you can be sure of what you get from some of the pools must of course be seen as a simplification when you come on the other side of how the initial factors are calculated. But that is also one of the reasons why the new system is certainly not long-term. For it goes without saying that fixed subsidies will not be sustainable in the long run, given an immediate situation. There will be a need to adjust, some municipalities will develop positively and no longer need grants, while other municipalities may have negative developments and will need them. That is why, of course, in a few years there will be pressure to reform the system again, just as we have seen the increasing pressure in recent years. So no, long-term is not the solution either. What about the better welfare of the whole country? In the Danish People's Party we recognise that the reform is moving in the right direction, but when it is sold, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur did before, as better welfare throughout the country, it is absolutely a truth with modifications, as the service framework has been maintained for the time being, and that really means that the extra money cannot be spent on welfare. This means that if, for example, My own small municipality in Assens must be able to spend the extra money on the welfare of the municipality's citizens, which, to say the truth, is a very great need, because it has been cut far into the leg in recent years, other municipalities will have to spend less on welfare. This also means that if all municipalities insist on getting at least the share of the service framework that they now have, yes, there will be no service framework to increase the service in Assens, even if we immediately get more money in the box. Where, then, is the better welfare? In the Danish People's Party we have wanted a model that offers the same opportunities for welfare in all municipalities. We have wanted a common tax and then a distribution of money according to needs, in the same way as we do with the regions. Then there was an economic opportunity for the same level of service in all municipalities. But there was no support for that. This is a bit funny: in the area of health in the regions, there is a broad consensus that we will not accept differences in cancer treatment, whether you become ill in Copenhagen or become ill in Skagen. I simply do not understand why we then accept major differences in the level of service in the municipalities, in the schools, in the care of the elderly. I do not understand why it is okay that the aid you receive as a child, disabled, sick or old should be dependent on whether you live in one municipality or in the other municipality. In the Danish People's Party we fight in many contexts to ensure that the municipalities provide decent help to the citizens; to the citizens who need. However, in many contexts it comes up against the challenge that the economic opportunities of the municipalities are so different that it can really be difficult for the municipalities to meet the demands we make here from Christiansborg. That is why we are very sorry that we did not really want to enter into discussions on our model. But today we have to deal with the present model. We would also have liked to see the compensation of foreigners removed altogether. It is, of course, a step along the way with a halving, but why not remove it? There are grants for refugees for the first 3 years, and why is it that foreigners are then more expensive than Danes? I guess an early retirement with mental illness costs the same whether you are a native Dane or a refugee. So why do the municipalities need extra money for refugees? So, overall, we recognise that there are steps in the right direction in the agreement and that is why we will not vote against the agreement. At the same time, however, we believe that the agreement is far from being simplified, long-term and, at the same time, does not guarantee the welfare of the whole country. So we expect to vote yellow on the agreement when we come to the third reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164833	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164836	I simply have to ask DF's rapporteur whether DF is opposed to municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164848	We are not at all opposed to municipal autonomy. I know it's listed every time we talk about the treasure. There has been a tax freeze for many years, and real municipal autonomy is about providing the right service to the citizens who are out there. I do not think there is an extra amount of municipal autonomy because Langeland is allowed to raise the tax very much. So I really do not understand the question. But, of course, we support municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164918	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164919	Now, of course, I know that DF's rapporteur himself is also in a town council, and I am therefore a little surprised that one can agree that there must be exactly one's service, one's well-being and one's tax. That worries me, because would there be more freedom left if you followed DF's model? So that's really what I'm asking you. So, is there any freedom left to make decisions for yourself as a Councillor?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528164953	There's a lot of freedom left. The central thing in the municipalities is that I myself sit in a municipal council, so I know it is that we plan, structure and find out how we deliver the service to the citizens as it should be. It is a huge challenge when you sit in a small municipality that does not have the money to provide just about a service. What we want is to ensure that you actually have the basis for providing that service. On the other hand, I do not understand why the Left can accept going in and making a model that accepts the differences in service. Would the Left accept that there was a difference in the quality of a hospital treatment depending on whether you lived in Aalborg or lived in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165029	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur. It's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165039	Thank you. It's a big day today. I've been really, really looking forward to it. After all, as the municipal rapporteur, equalisation is a matter of the heart and some of the things that we have fought most with and prepared most for. The basic pillar of this reform is solidarity. It is the principle that welfare in Denmark should not depend on what zip code you have. So far, so good. We all know municipalities where welfare does not have the level that children, young people, the elderly and families rightly expect. The quality of our common well-being is one of the topics that concerns the Danes most. And the fact that welfare does not have the same high quality throughout the country is a major political problem. It is still gone, compensatory reform or not. But we're one step closer with this deal. Because equalisation is not about creating equality of welfare between all municipalities. On the other hand, it is a question of creating the same opportunities for prioritising municipalities. For too many years, many municipalities have been able to give priority to nothing more than next year's cuts in core welfare, and the old system has made less sense. There were far too many municipalities that could not get the ends to meet because they had been particularly hard hit by demographic development, by centralist education policy, by structural reforms up through the 00s, or a combination of it all. The bottom had simply become too heavy. The municipalities have been pushing for reform for years. The government was given a bottom-up task, which was to be solved jointly with the Danish Parliament's parties. Now we have thoroughly cleaned up and the mechanisms in the system are more up-to-date. At the same time, I know that not everyone will be satisfied. Some had dreamed of more, others had hoped to pay less. In the Radical Left, we are pleased with the marked reduction in the bill for the municipalities which were intended to pay the most in the government's first proposal. We prepared ourselves thoroughly and brought a wish list to the table, which we have pretty much got full plate on. I would just like to mention some of the headlines that we really appreciate. We are very pleased that the level of compensation has been raised; that the employment subsidy has been incorporated into the compensation; that the temporary financing grant will be permanent, hurry for it; that the state adds billions extra via liquidity transfer; that the equalisation of corporation tax is increased, that the compensation scheme has become one-tier rather than multi-tiered; that several of the Financial Committee's recommendations from 2018 have been followed; that the pool for island and peripheral municipalities is well upholstered by 1.5 billion. kr.; that section 16 pool for particularly needy municipalities has increased; that the capital pool is well upholstered and fine tuned so that it hits more precisely than in the game; that a municipality can retain a larger proportion of its income from parking fees; that paying municipalities have a free lease to raise taxes; that municipalities with residential areas that are particularly hard hit by high crime get a small special pool; and not least that border municipalities with many border commuters also get an extra hand. But the best thing about this reform is that the municipalities now know what they can budget for the years ahead. This sounds really boring and useless, but the uncertainty in municipal budget planning has been the biggest problem before the reform. Whether you have received or have to deliver in this reform, the municipality now knows its budget so that you can plan much better. Finally, I should like to express my sincere thanks to all the municipalities in the country. I think I'll take it with me, say hello to them. I'm pretty sure if there were 98 mayors up here on the platform, they'd say thank you with one voice. Thanks to the government for sticking to the negotiating table, thanks to the Left and Ellen Trane Nørby sitting over there to stand the distance and help with the qualification of the reform and also thanks to the rest of the parties to the agreement for helping to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165443	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165446	This agreement has, of course, maintained that there must continue to be separate compensation between the municipalities of the capital. And there I would just like to hear whether the Radical Left can provide a reasonable explanation for the fact that a municipality which has some challenges and which lies outside the capital should not have as much money from the compensation to solve the challenges that if the municipality has the same challenges and lies within the capital, it must have more money to solve those challenges. Why is it important that the municipalities of the capital have more money to solve their challenges than other municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165529	Neither have the municipalities of the capital, since the level of compensation is the same. And in relation to both places, whether it is within the capital or outside the capital, the municipality will either get extra, or a little more will be taken from it. So it is not true that the municipalities of the capital will be given extra compensation. It is true that there is a capital pool because some of the municipalities within the metropolitan area, for example. Halsnæs or Stevns, of course, some outlying municipalities have problems completely in line with other rural and outer municipalities. That's why it was important to be able to hit them more precisely, and that's why they made this capital pool. It was also made, of course, because there are some municipalities in the West region which have some particular integration problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165615	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165616	If you need to invent a language where words do not mean what words really mean, then you have a political challenge. And saying that the capital pool isn't an equalisation is a lot of nonsense. Well, that's equalization in line with all sorts of other things. It is just a separate compensation scheme alongside the others, and it is a compensation scheme which only applies to the municipalities of the capital. And I understand that because the challenges you have and for which you need money can be extra big if you are close to Copenhagen. Can one try on the part of the Radical Left like to qualify why it is that one's challenges are extra big if one is close to Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165658	Neither are your problems if you are close to Copenhagen. That it is a pool can also be seen by the fact that the vast majority of the money in that pool comes from the state and is not really money from other metropolitan municipalities. There is a part of it that is from other capital municipalities, but not nearly as much as from the state. That's one thing. The second thing is in relation to the proportion of compensation. In the old system of compensation, 88 per cent, as far as I remember, were offset. in the metropolitan area and 67 per cent. in the rest of the country. So it was, after all, a bias that was to be felt, and at least the imbalance is put to rest with the arrangement we have made now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165736	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165738	I'm curious. Now I have heard two other parties defending it by giving more money to the municipalities, which they can then spend on administration, management and everything else, with the fact that you will not interfere in municipal self-government. Then I would like to ask whether the Radical Left also takes the view that there should be no interference in municipal self-government, and whether this also includes the service ceiling, the construction framework and the other things. Does the Radical Left not think that should be the case, or should it be the case that rules should be laid down as to how much money the municipalities can spend? Or should it also be left free in the spirit of municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165814	After all, everything about the installation framework, the service framework, etc. is within the budget law and is also part of the negotiations between the KL and the government. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur for New Citizens that I do not know of a single municipality in Denmark, which has not been planning for efficiency, bureaucracy and central administration in the last 10 years since the merger of municipalities. And if the rapporteur looks at the budgets and accounts of the municipalities, it is the case that about a third less is spent on administration in the municipalities than does in the state. So the municipalities are all extremely efficient at running the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165854	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165855	This is quite simply factual nonsense. Under the latest government, the total cost of central government and management in the municipalities increased by 435 million. kr. It's factual. You can break it up. At the same time, if you look at the period from 2006 to 2016, i.e. a 10-year period, then the number of academics employed in the municipalities has increased by 60%. If you look at the number of journalists, it has risen by 170%. So the story that you have streamlined and spend only money on basic core welfare is a crazy misguided story. The data and facts show a completely different story.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528165939	Even sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who also sits in a municipal council, or at least has done so, knows that during the period mentioned here, the task of the municipalities has become significantly different than it was before the municipal reform. For example: all environmental tasks and health tasks that you have at this level are located in the municipalities. There you also have to hire people who are academics and who have a different education. That is what we usually call cold hands, and they are needed in the municipalities. Because we from the government and the Folketing have put the tasks out there, money must of course also be taken into account for the recruitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170016	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments, and then the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170030	Thank you. Denmark has become much more miserable over the past many years, but we are now making up for this when we introduce this new agreement on municipal equalisation. Today there is far too great a difference between the welfare that can be achieved, for example in Gentofte and in Langeland, and this is mainly due to the fact that the tax base is so much different • a difference that appears both in terms of service level and tax pressure. In Gentofte you even pay 22.8%. in tax, while at Langeland you pay 27.8%. In the SF, we think that there should be a better balance, so that service levels and tax pressure are closer together, because we owe this to the citizens, not least in the poorest municipalities in the country. That is why we are also pleased to be part of an agreement in which we move more money into the compensation system and thus out to the municipalities, while at the same time moving more money from rich to poor municipalities. This means that more will also be moved from parts of East Denmark, the larger cities, and to the outermost regions. Firstly, because all municipalities must have enough money to achieve a level of welfare so that all municipalities can live up to, for example, the level of service, health and education required by the law, but we also do so because, as a red party, we are working for greater municipal equality. One area that has been crucial to our support for the reform is the area of early retirement, and it has been important in the course of the negotiations that a number of criteria were established which take account of the number of early retirement workers, not least in the West and in the outermost municipalities, where there are currently many on transfer income. Today, we often find that a great many of the municipalities that find it difficult to reconcile budgets are also the municipalities where there is a greater share of early retirement, and in the SF we are pleased that a criterion is now being introduced for the number of early retirement workers. With this reform, some of the wealthiest municipalities in the country will find that they will have to give more or that they will receive a smaller block grant, but fortunately they will now be better able to raise the tax so that the citizens of these municipalities do not have to experience a deterioration in welfare. Other municipalities, typically the poorest with a high municipal tax, will experience, on the other hand, that they will have the opportunity to reduce the tax while at the same time increasing the level of welfare. The SF is also satisfied that the exceptional financial contribution is made permanent. However, if we are going to be fully in line with this agreement, it is crucial that the government now adjusts the service and construction framework so that the municipalities that are now getting more money will also have the opportunity to raise their welfare level. It's actually our very clear expectation in the SF. There is no point in moving the money into municipalities if it cannot be used, because with this compensatory reform, citizens in a large number of municipalities have legitimate expectations of a service boost. After all, the money is not meant to be simply in other municipal funds. SF's contribution to a new agreement on municipal equalisation has been intended to reduce inequality and geographical imbalance and thus provide better welfare throughout the country. Finally, I would just like to say that with a compensatory reform, there will always be municipalities which, more or less rightly, feel overlooked or perhaps, more precisely, have not been adequately covered by the fair approaches to the subsidy and compensation system that are now going to happen. To this end, it is only to say that it is both political and technical doghard to create a system that affects all 98 municipalities, so that they get exactly the same opportunities to run a municipality, and therefore it has also been important for the SF to maintain a special grant to the exposed municipalities. Of course, the SF agrees with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170433	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170436	The SF rapporteur mentions two municipalities, Gentofte and Langeland, and I think Langeland is mentioned because Langeland has a mayor from the SF. It is also one of the municipalities which, according to surveys, proves to be least efficient in terms of operating costs, i.e. it is where you provide the least service possible for the money you have. Maybe it's because you have a socialist as mayor. I'm not gonna be able to tell you. It is not normal for socialists to be good at making public operations more efficient. But at least one thing you have in control of in Langeland Municipality is having sports halls. If you look at such a map where the municipalities have different colors, then Langeland is one of the municipalities which has a very dark color, because there are very many sports halls per. citizen. It costs both to build an athlete's hall and to run an athlete's hall. On the other hand, Gentofte is one of the municipalities with a bright color, because it is one of the municipalities in Denmark which has the least sports halls per year. citizen. According to the SF, how can one at the same time be very poor in Langeland Municipality and be one of the municipalities that can afford to have the most sports halls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170544	I'm gonna have to correct sir. Ole Birk Olesen in his conjecture of why Langeland is mentioned in this context. That's because they have the absolute highest tax burden in the country. And when I mention Gentofte, it is because they have the absolute lowest tax burden in the country. It's just to show the differences that are 5 percentage points. When Mr. Ole Birk Olesen then talks about sports halls, I would say that I do not think that municipal welfare should be made up of the number of sports halls. I also have to point out that one of the reasons why the municipality of Frederiksberg has suffered from challenges in getting sports halls is in fact that it is Denmark's smallest geographical municipality with one of the highest population. So, of course, it's connected. There must also be room. And what local self-government can do is that it can find out what local opportunities there are. But there is no doubt that if you look at the key figures for some of the poorest municipalities and some of the richest municipalities, you can see that there is too much difference, and you can also see what the individual citizen can expect to receive in services in crowns and ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170654	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170655	I simply believe that Langeland will have to recognise that if you think that the tax is too high, then you should not choose a folk socialist as mayor. 'Cause you guys really like taxes in SF. After all, we have one debate after another here in the Chamber, where you say that taxes should be high and we say: No, can we not lower them a little? Now you have a municipality down at Langeland, where you've made the treasure high, and then we'll hear complaints for it too, but that's your policy, for Christ's sake. Can you say damn it? I'm sorry. Langeland Municipality is not very efficient driven. The figures show that, and that's why you have to have such a high tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170734	If these fugitive accusations that are running against socialists right now were not a bit humorous, then it might be that we should have a little longer talk about what the facts and realities really are, also in relation to the tax burden in Langeland Municipality. But that talk should not derail this debate, because what is essential and important in this is that there really are a large number of municipalities that do not have the money to have a reasonable level of welfare and also facilities, so that you can live properly and well as a citizen of this country, regardless of which municipality you have settled in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170812	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170814	I'd like to ask if SF thinks this is fair. You have a municipality that is efficiently run where they spend less money on central administration and management than the neighbouring municipality. The money they then save on operating the municipality more efficiently, they spend on e.g. a better ranking in kindergartens or on other core welfare in order to be able to deliver on it, because they think it is essential to spend the money on it. With this reform, there could be a situation where they have to hand over money. They cannot be more effective on administrative costs, because they are already at the cheap end. Then they only have a place they can save, and it is on the basic core welfare, or they can set up the tax, but if the tax is already high, they know that people are moving away from their municipality. What is the answer to the municipalities where they say: It may well be that we take money from you anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528170910	There is no doubt that there are some municipalities that I also mentioned in my speech, which will look a little different than most, and that will always be the case. In fact, we can look at the municipalities that are going to give the most with this compensatory reform, not those with the highest tax rates. And yes, it is an opportunity to set up the tax, and in SF we are not actually such a fan of having to pay the highest possible tax. We are actually a fan of paying the lowest possible tax. In reality, however, it is about whether it is enough for the costs that are, and that is the case with economies. It takes revenue to pay for the expenses that are and, if it is not linked, it is because something is wrong. Here we can conclude that when we look at the key figures, when we look at the geographical picture of Denmark, there is too much bias and inequality compared to the municipalities' prerequisites for maintaining some sensible levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171007	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171008	It's very nice, and then you talk about this moving it from town to country and from east to west and something like that. I am talking about quite a few regional differences in the same area, so it is not really moving the money. Then you always talk about this full amount, but a small amount, let's say 30-40 million. kr. You go in and take some of the municipalities that are actually very, very well run, but who have chosen to say: for us it is important that there is a good rating in our kindergartens and teachers to teach our children. They're going to cut down now. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171047	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171048	I have to say that I do not fully recognise the premise that there are a large number of well-run municipalities, unlike a large number of poorly-run municipalities. There is simply no justification for saying that in these cases. It is true that there may be differences in how to drive it, but on the basis of the few figures that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen mentions here, you cannot draw such conclusions. I would say with my own experience from sitting in a municipal council that it is absolutely not related to whether the municipality is just well run. Sometimes the tax base is simply too low and the level of expenditure too high in relation to the fact that you can go in to make the difference that moves something.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171123	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so we move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171132	Thank you. Now the government, together with the Left, Radicals, SF and the Alternative, has undertaken a reform of the municipal equalisation system, and I would actually like to start by commending the parties behind the reforms for having had the courage to make such fundamental changes in the system. It has been clear for a number of years that the equalisation system needed really fundamental changes to ensure that the growing inequality between municipalities was eliminated. Inequality grew for a number of reasons, and I will not go into them all, but only say that it was clear to everyone that the reform of the municipalities' co-financing of expenditure on transfer income adopted in 2016 has had a very significant negative impact on a number of pressured outskirts municipalities, so you have to think about who was responsible for it. That is why we proposed on the part of the Enhedslisten that this element should also be dealt with in the context of the reform. I would also like to acknowledge that the agreement involves a contribution of funding to the municipalities, that is. cash, cash which the municipalities can use for example. capital investment or other expenditure which does not directly affect service costs. This could help some municipalities to improve their economy, but for the municipality of Denmark it must at the same time seem a bit of a confession that the reform which the parties are proposing to us today can only be said to be a better equalisation system, because at the same time 3 billion have been pumped. kr. to new liquidity. We think this is an important observation. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the agreed reform is neither targeted at the municipal economic challenges nor the government's announced objectives. The Enhedslisten took a positive part in the negotiations because the objective was formulated as a reform aimed at shifting funds from the rich to the poor and from cities to islands and rural areas. However, the objective is not met and the agreement is insufficient to solve the problems facing the municipalities. That is why, unfortunately, we could not be in the agreement. There were several good reasons for this. Firstly, the agreement does not provide any more welfare. Although the municipalities receive 3 billion. kr. more in liquidity, they don't get the opportunity to spend one more penny on welfare overall. There will continue to be a ceiling on service costs and sanctions that penalise budget overruns. The agreement underlines how ill-timed and damaging the budget law works for welfare. However, I have pointed my ears out because I heard the Socialist rapporteur predict that the service ceiling would probably be lifted, and I heard the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party say that it was very important that the service ceiling was lifted, and I also heard the SF's rapporteur say that. So I can suddenly hear a majority in the Chamber for the service ceiling to be lifted. It may be a solution to some of these problems. With regard to the other problems, however, I would like to say that there are 26 municipalities which are being set to hand over money in the reform. It is a precise answer to question 470 that makes me use that number, although there have been other figures advanced. We see nothing wrong with rich municipalities with high tax bases and low tax rates having to hand over to poor municipalities, but we do not think there are 26 rich municipalities in Denmark. Several of the 26 municipalities are neither rich municipalities nor municipalities with low tax rates. So it is not a Robin Hood exercise that is being put into effect. The reality is instead that a quarter of the Danish municipalities either have to cut welfare and fire people, or they have to raise income tax. The second problem is that many rich people in the municipalities do not want to contribute to the community because of the slanted tax ceiling. This means that top tax payers are free from co-financing the continued welfare, and in this way the agreement can also have unsolidary elements. The third is that inequality in transfer costs has not been resolved, and they are among other things. not because it has been blocked, and this means that the grant is given once and for all to the selected municipalities and that further imbalances are not detected. The final point is that the poor municipalities are not future-proof. The change in the compensation system has been made in such a way that several municipalities, which have a high cost of support, actually lose out on the system itself. What saves the calculation for 2021 is that compensation is provided through the compensation scheme, which sets a ceiling on how much the municipalities have to take as a result of the reform. But that does not solve the problem in the future. All in all, we have some good reasons why we could not be in the agreement. We would have preferred to have seen that, in this uncertain crisis, with a high, rising unemployment, the same liquidity had been sent out to the most needy municipalities and had waited for the major reform until there was a better overview of the Corona situation. So, despite the positive elements of the agreement, the negative effects are overshadowing, and Enhedslisten cannot support the bill as it stands now. Furthermore, we would venture to foresee that by 2025 the pressure for a new reform will be at least as strong as it has been in recent years, because the inequality that exists will continue to increase when it comes to the whole area of employment. So I foresee a new reform in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171659	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528171708	Thank you. We in the Conservative People's Party were optimistic when, on the first week of February, we went to the meeting of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior about the municipal compensation. We were actually keen that we would be part of this agreement, but it was very clear to us during the meeting that the government did not want the Conservative People's Party to be part of it. We reached out and were ready to participate in a joint settlement, but we simply did not get the chance. After half an hour, 45 minutes, we were told by the Minister for Finance that we would not be called to a meeting any further. We were simply poured down the board and the door was opened so that the two major mayors could go in and make a deal. The Conservative People's Party is the country's third largest mayor party. We have 228 local politicians in Denmark, that is almost 10%, and we were not allowed to participate. I have to say this, although we obviously care about the Left, that the Left chose to abandon the bourgeois bloc and the Conservative People's Party. The Left chose Løkke's path, namely to cooperate with the Social Democrats, and the Left chose to pledge the right to vote in relation to the municipal equalisation of the Social Democratic Party. With the agreement on compensation, the Left has promised the Socialists that they will be together for future compensatory reform. This means that the Left has de facto renounced the bourgeois municipal policy agenda on the economic distribution of citizens' money between municipalities. At the same time, this agreement restricts municipal self-determination because it minimises the influence of citizens on the tax policy to be pursued in their municipalities. In the past, 18 billion were offset. kr., and now it is approx. 19 billion. kr. There's been a lot of talk about that. Conservatives are in favour of a municipal compensation system. There are local authorities that need help. That is clear, and we were prepared to do so. However, the Conservatives are also of the opinion that Berlingske's leader was also looking for the settlement with the heading: "Better compensatory reform than expected but bourgeois it is not." Then it said further: First of all, there is a lack of incentives to run its municipality more efficiently and incentives to create local prosperity. However, we would have liked a compensatory reform which would have given a clear incentive to reward well-run municipalities. An analysis by CEPOS has revealed that if all municipalities were run as well as the best municipality in Denmark, we would have an additional 30 billion. kr. to do good among the municipalities. There are both wealthy and poor municipalities, and there are well-run and non-managed municipalities, it is quite clear, and it could be an incentive to reward municipalities that are good at getting people into work, good at working with business and private companies that are particularly business-friendly, so that it will support growth and jobs throughout Denmark etc. We would have preferred to focus on how the municipalities become more efficient. Much more has been introduced than was recommended in the Financial Committee's report. In fact, a whole compensatory reform has been added. Take, for example, the special grant for border municipalities in Southern Denmark and the Øresund region, which has now been introduced into the compensation system. It is absurd that Glostrup Municipality should be a border municipality, but it is. 37 Social-democratic-led municipalities win and 10 lose; 28 Left-led municipalities win and 9 lose; in conservative-led municipalities pay six out of eight municipalities. Left-wing municipalities stand overall to win 1 billion. kr., Social Democratic municipalities stand overall to earn 3.25 billion. kr., and conservative municipalities must hand in small 200 million. kr. Guess who's in the deal and who's not! Gentofte is the largest supplier. Although I come out of West Jutland, I have to mention it, and not only that Gentofte is the largest supplier, it is also the case that Gentofte has sent a further letter here on the 27th to the Minister of Finance and to the Minister of the Interior that the total loss for Gentofte lands at 376 million. kr., when they look at all the consequences of this settlement. We are sorry in the Conservatives that we were not allowed to participate, we would have liked to have contributed, but we cannot support L 196.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172236	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172239	Thank you. Now, sir. Orla Østerby himself said that I had to ask for the floor, because it is clear that when you go for the Left, as you do, I also have to ask the rapporteur whether it is not correct that, compared to the proposal made by the government, the Left helped to ensure that the Conservative mayors will actually contribute nearly 300 million. kr. less than the result would have been if it had become a pure red deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172311	I believe that it is Denmark's oldest trick to play out with twice what you want through; then you have something to trade with. The Social Democrats did so, and then the Left believes that they have been involved in negotiating it down. I will, of course, leave the Left in that faith, but it is not the case. What has happened in connection with this compensation is that some municipalities that pay enormously in advance will pay even more. It is very, very unreasonable that we should have a system in which we continue to milk some of those who drive their municipalities the most capable. And I have to say that in Gentofte they run their municipality incredibly cleverly, with the mayor in charge. They're paying 3.3 billion right now. kr. in compensation and they reach 3.5 billion. kr. Their tax revenue by 2020 is 6.8 billion. kr. Well, there's a limit to how much you can milk a cow, and here you've crossed the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172415	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172417	There are some good sayings that I also think should be remembered sometimes in this Chamber. There are, among other things: such that it is important to be happy on behalf of others as well. There is another saying that envy is an ugly thing. I would really like to stress that I had hoped that the Conservatives would be included in this compensation agreement. I also think that the Conservative rapporteur should perhaps listen more to the Conservative Mayor of the municipality of Høje-Taastrup, i.e. Michael Ziegler, who has been out to praise the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172455	We can take Michael Ziegler first. I would like to say that Ziegler has been out to correct and asked that he should not be overinterpreted, that he was glad that his municipality escaped cheaper than it was at the beginning, and has said that it was not the same as that he thought it was a good compensatory reform. Finally, I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Left: we have had intergovernmental cooperation for many, many years. We have worked closely and hopefully we will also have to do so in the future. And sometimes, when you think your brother or cousin doesn't do exactly what they should do, you have to say it. After all, the Left had had a chance here; they could have made sure that the Conservatives were involved in this settlement. That would not have been a problem for the Left, it could have been done, but the Left did not want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172545	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172546	It's just a short question for understanding. The rapporteur mentions the loss figure published by Gentofte. If you have a grant to a municipality which lapses at the end of this year, a grant which is not affected by the compensatory reform, but which therefore lapses this year, is it so fair to say that the loss that is being incurred because a subsidy scheme which has nothing to do with the compensatory reform lapses, is the result of the compensatory reform, which happens to come into force on the day after the grant referred to expires? Is this a fair way of recording losses to describe it as a consequence of the compensatory reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172646	I believe that over the next few days the Social Democrat rapporteur will find out that there was actually an agreement that it should continue, that it should be included in the new reform. And I think there will be a former minister who will perhaps come forward, and I think that the Social Democrats and the current Finance Minister may have to acknowledge to Gentofte that this is not fair and fair. I know what the rapporteur is talking about. It is, after all, the cancellation of compensation for changes in the education statistics of 152 million. kr., but the total loss for Gentofte stands at 376 million, after the statement they made in Gentofte. kr. And I think that this issue will be discussed in the coming weeks. I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172746	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172750	It is also about the rapporteur talking about this increased bill for Gentofte. I'd like to follow up on where Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen escaped, because if it is the case that there is some form of private agreement that Gentofte should still have continued to be compensated for a grant to which they were initially not entitled, how can it be that the Conservative People's Party has chosen to stay out of the agreement and not actively engage in this reform in order to actually fight to keep our hands under exactly Gentofte?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172831	So, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it was the case that the Conservative People's Party would very much have liked to have been involved in this or we had expected We are bourgeois voices working and participating in almost all the conciliations that are in this Chamber. And in relation to the matter of Gentofte and the fact that we have chosen what has been done here in the conciliation procedure, I would say that we are not on the ground just to negotiate for Gentofte; we are negotiating for all the municipalities in which we have council members, and that is all 98 municipalities • 228 members. So I am not going to stand here presiding over Gentofte, but just say that there is a problem that has not been resolved, which we think may have to be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172917	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172918	So why are the municipalities that have actually phased out this subsidy scheme? So what we're talking about here, this special pool, which is due to expire in 2020, has phased it out of their budget? Haven't they known about this special underhand deal that Gentofte might have had with a former minister and something nasty?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528172939	I don't know about any underhand agreement at all. All I am saying is that on 27 May a letter from Gentofte was sent to the Minister for Finance and to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior saying that there is a problem that Gentofte would like to see looked at. Then I shall not interfere at all in how to resolve it, but I would just point out that Gentofte is facing a loss, not 164 million. kr., but they have made it up to 376 million. kr. It is an expensive round for Gentofte, if we look at it in relation to the City of Copenhagen of just over 400 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173017	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173025	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the government for the invitation and for some constructive meetings. I think that is also appropriate. In New Citizens we go to all negotiations with a constructive approach and we had some good meetings. This time the ends couldn't get together, and that's how it is sometimes. We could feel that it was probably the Social Democrats and the Left who were supposed to land this agreement, and that is politics sometimes, but I also think it is appropriate to thank for an open invitation from the government to New Citizens to attend some meetings or negotiations and to listen to our ideas about those things. It is clear that as a new bourgeois party we look differently at equalisations, but most often this struggle ended with the fact that it was the two parties that were most often government-supporting and have the most mayors who shared money between the municipalities. We might have thought that it had been looked at quite differently, and we were open and honest about that. I do not like the expression cold hands, because I do not believe that anyone goes to work and does not do a good job or do what they can, but I like the concept of cold hours, which means that no value is created for the basic tasks that lie in a municipality. We might have thought that one would go in and look at where one gets the most money and whether one could create a system in which municipalities, which are well run and where a lot of money is not spent on central administration and management, are not penalised municipalities, which choose to spend the money they have, on basic core welfare for the benefit of their citizens, the care sector, perhaps norms in kindergarten, teachers to teach their children in the municipality, have a good infrastructure, make sure that there are sports halls. Municipalities who spend money on it, and not everything else, do not think we should be punished. We could not get through with that, we recognise it, and it is, of course, a government's right to say that it is not going to be in this round, and therefore we could not see ourselves in this agreement either in the New Citizens' Party; we should also be honest about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173315	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173320	Thank you. I have to say that I really have a great deal of sympathy for the rapporteur's focus on a form of governance or reduction of the bureaucracy of consulting services, etc. that takes place in the municipalities, as well as in the state, in the regions and elsewhere. We can only agree that we must continue to work to reduce this. However, I am curious how the rapporteur thinks this should be translated into an agreement on municipal equalisation. How can we even go in to make criteria that hit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173402	The compensatory reform is incredibly complicated, and there are about 28 buttons that you can stand and turn on. A button we would have liked to have put in as a new button is one that does that if you as a municipality have an administrative and management cost level per. 1,000 inhabitants, which are lower than the average and the surrounding municipalities, to which you should contribute, then you should not be forced to pay in. Put another way: If you run your municipality well and cheaply, you should not be forced to pay to others. In the same way, if you choose to run your municipality dearly in these areas called administration and management, which we believe are cold hours, if it gets too much, then you shouldn't be able to get
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173446	This leads to the next, and I actually raised that question when I was on the platform earlier, namely how we can see the link between efficient management and low central costs, administrative costs. I would like to see the rapporteur elaborate on this further. And then, in reality, it is also a question of whether the differences between municipalities had been incorporated in that criterion in relation to operating. There are economies of scale in the larger municipalities, and there are also very different conditions around the municipalities in relation to geography, and there are large rural municipalities and there can be a lot of infrastructure or other things at stake. Is this some of the things New Citizens have brought to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173532	It is fortunate that there is very good data to compare the municipalities with. In fact, the municipalities have even over a few years posted hundreds of millions of kroner in data systems which make it possible to compare. And if you say here from the Chamber or from the municipalities that you cannot compare data, that is a massive waste of citizens' tax dollars. It is if you have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on data systems that are designed to compare data, and you then claim that you cannot compare data. No, that's not how the piano plays! If you have spent money on an instrument to compare data, then we relate to that data, and we use that data to make proper legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173612	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528173620	If it was the case that there was no equalisation between municipalities in Denmark, then we had to invent it, because we in the Liberal Alliance agree completely with everyone else that Denmark is too small a country for us to have very large differences in municipal service to citizens. It should not be the case that because you live in, for example. the outermost West Jutland, where there may not be so many high-paid citizens, then the schools are unfairly poor, or the care of the elderly is extremely poor, or other necessary municipal services do not work properly. Nor should it be the case that because you live in Gentofte and your neighbors have a lot of money, and therefore the municipality gets a lot of money in the box, then there are gold taps in the nursing homes, and you have lots of luxurious things in other ways, while the rest of the country has to go for lye and cold water. If there was no compensation scheme, it had to be invented. There's 18 billion. kr. This bill will be evened out for every year before we pass this So when the Social Democrats' rapporteur and also the Social Democrats' Minister for the Interior from the platform pretends today that there is pure capitalism out there between the municipalities and that the municipalities only have the money they can earn and that the municipalities that have rich citizens are flowing in money and that the municipalities that have poor citizens have nothing to do with, then that is just completely untrue. That is not the basis for a compensatory reform now, because 18 billion is already being offset. kr. every year. If this bill is passed, it'll be 18 billion. kr. to 19 billion. kr., i.e. one eighteenth more than has already been compensated for. That's what we're talking about. And what is the reason for the eighteenth more to be compensated for? Is it that it has been found that the service in some municipalities is unacceptable? No, it really isn't. In the part of the negotiations to which we were invited, we repeatedly asked whether the government had any figures showing that the municipalities to which the government would give more money have a service that is unacceptablely poor. And at one meeting after another and also the third, we received no answer as to whether the government had figures showing that some municipalities provided unacceptable poor services to citizens. This was the task that the government had to solve in order to justify more equalisation in Denmark, in order to justify going from 18 billion. kr. to 19 billion. kr. in compensation. The simple task had to be solved that the government had to show that this was necessary in order to have an acceptable service in all regions of the country. The government has not solved that task. Because that's not what it was about. What it was all about was that the Socialists had come to the government, they had received help from all sorts of places, including from mayors of social democratic observers, and now we have to pay back. We have to pay back to the municipalities that have a Social Democratic mayor. That is why we have sat creatively and made officials count; not on what are sensible principles and what is reasonable, no, the officials have been given the task of counting on how to accommodate social democratic municipalities, and there was a risk of that. If it was me who was an official in a system like this, I'd quit. I think it must be unacceptable to have to work in such a way that we cannot apply sensible and objective principles in our work, but must work for the most unspeakable wishes of a particular party that comes into government, that their mayors should now have some more money. What has come out of this is that we are no longer redistributing 18 billion. kr., but must redistribute 19 billion. kr., and they must primarily go to social democratic municipalities, and the Left is needed to obtain a majority, so the Left has been dragged into these negotiations, and therefore there are also a lot of Left Communes that need to have some more money. The government wrote in a note that during the negotiations the Left was working to ensure that there were certain Left Communes to be accommodated, and that note was so leaked, and the Left was very upset that the note was leaked not so much because of what it said, because it was true that the Left worked for the Left Communes, but the fact that the government had the nerve to leak the note was too much. But the statement that the Left was working for the Left was true. We're voting against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174132	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments, so we can move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174145	Thank you. In the alternative, we are pleased to be included in the compensation agreement. It's a gigantic, complex case like a clockwork with lots of small and large gears. When you turn on a small cog on one side of the clockwork, there is a large cog on the other side that should not have moved, and in this way there are incredibly many parameters on which you have to turn very, very carefully. In this whole big, complex case, there's something that we in the alternative are really, really happy to be part of and that makes us part of the agreement. There is also something we would have liked to have brought with us that we did not get, and then there is something we are extremely happy to get out of the agreement. The reason we're here is because it creates social equalization. The money flows from the rich to the poor municipalities, and that is at least enough Robin Hood effect for us to be involved. It is also important that there should be 6.5 billion. kr. into the municipal equalisation, into the system, so it's not just a zero sum game where we take from one and give to the other. But sometimes an agreement is not just about what you can get, but also about what you can get out. In the alternative, we have always worked to get out of the agreement the proposal that centralises municipal power in the major cities of Denmark and abolishes the Magistrate system. We were very sorry about this proposal, and if it had been so, it would have been such a mess that we had not gone along with it, because we really do not like the kind of centralisation of power that had been set up there, even though we admit that it had abolished a lot of bureaucracy. Then there is something we would have liked to have brought with us. We would have liked to have seen a kind of musketeered that the service ceiling and the plant ceiling should be raised so that the municipalities could spend more money on air conditioning or municipal service. It would have required a musketeer's oath if it were to be a standing requirement for the forthcoming negotiations in the Budget Act. There the government wouldn't reach out and make it that way. But all in all, we are happy to be in the agreement, and that is especially because there is enough Robin Hood effect in it for us, so of course we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174418	Thank you for that, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, the High Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174430	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by signing off on the receipt of the bill and on the debate we have had in this Chamber today. We've come a long way, but it's kind of hard other than when we talk equalisation because there's so many facets in it. As you know, the draft law here implements agreement on the reform of the municipal subsidy and compensation system of 5 May this year between the Government, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative. No one may expect that the municipal system of subsidies and compensation will ever be quite simple, easily understood or arranged so that everyone is satisfied with the result. But I hope and believe that the bill we are discussing here today will contribute to a better balance for Denmark and that we will create a long-awaited calm about the economy of the municipalities for the coming years. I also sense that in many of the municipalities in the country there is, after all, a relief that the system is now finally being reformed. The draft law will provide us with a new system of subsidies and compensation for the municipalities, which will deal with a number of the inequalities and injustices suffered by the old system. We will have a uniform equalisation system across all the municipalities in the country, while at the same time holding hands under the most vulnerable municipalities. We will have a more robust and simple equalisation system which will provide better conditions for welfare throughout the country. This is absolutely crucial for the government. Denmark is too small for big differences, we have said this all the way through, and so I would also like to say that, following today's debate, I am pleased to note that it seems that there is support for the proposal. I look forward to the further work and will, of course, answer what may be of questions in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174625	Thank you. We start with a whole series of brief comments, and the first one is from Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174631	Thank you to the minister for the pick-up. I would like us to try to look at the crystal ball, because there are a few rapporteurs who have spoken a little along the way today that perhaps there is a prospect of us going back in and tampering with this system. After all, the minister has the best prerequisites with his ministry in the back to make an assessment of when we are going to make a new compensatory reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174700	Uh, I guess on a lot of levels in life, that thing with crystal balls will be nice to have. After all, the system we have agreed on here has stability. I think it was the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who referred to it in the description of the two large pools, which help to hold their hands stronger under the most vulnerable municipalities both in the outer and island districts and in the metropolitan areas, which are, of course, - and that is right - locked in order to ensure that stability and secure against the very large fluctuations that have hit some municipalities with the old system. At the same time, however, we are redistributing in the large system 19 billion. kr. that is not locked and that moves. I have heard well in the debate, which has been going on in some media, the question of whether we have now set up a system that is so rigid that it cracks when reality develops in a moment, and I would just say that is not the case. On the contrary, we have improved the main engine, i.e. that part of the equalisation system that is moving in line with developments in society, by among other things. to have corrected the employment subsidy, which had gone wrong, to have corrected the population decline criterion, which had also gone wrong, and to have it incorporated and adjusted some of the different criteria that are within the engine of the compensation system itself, so that we have a much better-to-follow compensation system, even in the years that come when developments are taking place in our society. That is why I would just like to say that I do not agree with the logic that it would have been better not to make an agreement now that we are in the midst of a huge corona crisis. On the contrary, I think it is really important for the municipalities to put this security and security around their economy in a difficult situation. It was in any case that it has been wanted for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174837	There, by the way, we in the Radical Left are in complete agreement and would like to thank you for having ice cream in your stomach to do this reform in this coronatide. But now the Minister also mentions it himself. In relation to the service ceiling, which has also been mentioned as a problem in this context, there is a whole group of support parties and is hoping that we will get the service framework lifted so that some of these many, many millions and billions can work for better welfare in Denmark. After all, the Minister is now in the chair with his colleagues in this regard. Can we get the veil lifted a little bit about how things are going with lifting the service frame?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528174913	After all, one must be careful to lift the veil too much for ongoing negotiations, and I would say that if I were not with you right now, I would be with the parties with whom we are negotiating the economy of both municipalities and regions. So we sit as much in medias res, in the middle of things as you can at all. However, it is clear that we, as a government, have said from the outset that we believe that when more children and more elderly people arrive, and what this has to do with derived costs, not only in our municipalities, but also in our health services. This means, of course, that the service framework will increase when you commit yourself to it, as opposed to the previous government. If you want to take a look at what we mean by that, then it has to be said that the boost made by the service framework last year, when we put together economic and financial legislation, is a very, very significant increase in the service framework compared to what has been seen in recent years. It is true that it is a slightly more enjoyable background to be compensated for when you have a government and a majority who actually believe that we should put welfare first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175011	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175012	Thank you. Well, that last one just sounded a little weird. Because during these hours, regional and local negotiators are waiting and do not know whether they have been bought or sold or whether they can strengthen welfare and contribute to the green transition in regions and municipalities, or whatever. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if the negotiations can get under way again with a message that the municipalities can spend the money that, following the compensatory reform, lies in the boxes. And the reason I ask in this way is that the fact that we are now lifting with the demographic move was not the word used, but that was what was behind it, after all, is the same as the status quo. What we are talking about is the possibility of raising welfare, so that, in addition to what lies in the demographic trait, that is to say, more children, etc., can be raised in welfare by using what is in the cash registers. That is what I am asking, and I would very much like a very precise answer to that, if I can get it, even though I know that negotiations are under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175122	I think it would be both unwise and probably a bit of a break-up if I took a middle time from here on from the platform on the ongoing negotiations with municipalities and regions, although I can easily follow the attention of the rapporteurs to what is going on in the red building right next door, over in the Ministry of Finance. But, you know, we have said clearly on the part of the government, yes, we have actually wanted to ensure in a welfare law that the money has to keep up, and that means that when there are more children and more older people, the service framework has to rise. If you look at what happened last year, we have to say that there was a boost in addition. This was done in economic agreements, but it was also done in the subsequent Finance Act that we made together, among other things. Because of a boost to our primary school and to our day care institutions. In this way, I am pleased to be part of a majority that puts welfare first and which has, of course, provided a better framework for not only service but also facilities, and that also means something when we talk about our welfare society and when we talk about the funds that are in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175227	Well, now it was important to find out if the desire to raise the service and raise the welfare and, by the way, raise the level and this has not been so much mentioned here the chance for the municipalities to participate in the green transition is fulfilled. The possibility that they can use their cash stocks stands and falls by, of course, whether they can spend the money they have in the box, and that is what we are asking about. And we know that this is happening at the moment, but we could not get the least of it in the negotiations on the compensatory reform that looked like a promise clause that it was something that would be discussed, and it cannot be by chance that it was not available at that time that it was something that was included in the consideration of what the overall economy would look like. So that's why I'm asking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175315	But there is something in principle here that I think it is essential to stick to, namely that when you negotiate compensatory reform, you negotiate compensatory reform and the distribution of funds between municipalities. And then, when you discuss what kind of welfare economy comes into the balancing engine, we talk about negotiations between the government, the government in office at all times, and municipalities and regions. I know that it does not surprise the Enhedslisten that this is the way it is, and I also know that it is no surprise to Enhedslisten that there is now a government that has actually undertaken that the service framework should grow in the municipalities. Whatever the outcome of the negotiations we are in the middle of now, I cannot and will not stand and conclude on from the platform of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175358	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175402	After all, this bill now seeks to increase the compensation between municipalities from 18 billion to 19 billion. kr., and the reason for that is that some of the municipalities will receive this extra billion, which simply has too little money for them to have a proper welfare society out there. There I would like to ask the Minister to mention three places in the country where it is due to a lack of money from the compensation that care for the elderly is not working properly, that schools are poor or that day institutions are not working, that is, that it is simply because today with the 18 billion. kr. is not the last billion for a proper equalisation and a proper welfare society in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175444	It's been such an amazing experience to follow sir. Ole Birk Olesen in the debate here today, where special sports halls have been such a recurring theme as an indicator of how things stand out in the municipalities. I could easily stand here and strike down concrete municipalities. Only today I have read about a specific municipality located in one of our outermost regions, have many citizens on transfers, have many children's cases and have few jobs that are saving on their elderly care. I am not going to stand here and discuss individual cases in relation to municipalities in this way, but I just want to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that I would like to acknowledge that it is difficult to run the municipality everywhere. I believe that it is difficult discussions in all municipalities, in all town councils and municipal councils, when you have to lay down your annual budget, but there are some places where it is unequally much more difficult because you have many citizens outside the labour market; because there is a long way between jobs; because there is an inequality in health that makes citizens needy in the past, perhaps because you have had a large place of work that has resulted in great wear and tear; because you have many early retirement pensions; because you have many vulnerable children and many children's cases. And then there are other municipalities where there is growth, where there is relocation, where there are jobs, where there is good infrastructure and where, after all, it is easier. That's why we're offsetting, and I've heard that too, sir. Ole Birk Olesen recognizes as a fundamental principle. We believe that the differences had become too great in Denmark, had been drawn more and more crooked, and therefore it is true that we now have a compensatory reform which will offset more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175607	Well, I fully agree that in some municipalities there is less tax base and more expenditure than there is in other municipalities, but that is why we have a lot of compensation in advance. I just do not think that the government has lifted the burden of proof that the municipalities which already receive a great deal of money need even more money. I have used the sports halls as an example because I think that it shows in such a grotesque way that you take money from someone who does not have very much money for leisure for young people and for children, and give money to some who have filled up the municipality with sports halls, swimming halls, municipal gyms and the like. Lemvig Municipality, which now receives 3 million. kr. more, is the municipality of the country, which has the most sports halls per. Citizen. If you can afford it, are you a poor municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175700	I have to maintain that I believe that sports halls are not one of the indicators that say the most about what challenges you can have as a municipality and which relate to how difficult it is to carry out the task of getting a budget together, while at the same time taking care of the entire group of citizens, you are responsible for them are the newborns, because fortunately there are more children, and there are also more older ones, because we live longer. In some municipalities they are healthy and healthy, while in other municipalities they die early and have many bad years when they are in need of early care, and this means something for the task that you have to solve as the municipality of sports hall or not. To this whole thing about calling out a table and a figure that can convince Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, I would like to say that this is also about politics. This is about how much equality we think there should be and how much inequality we want to accept and there's probably just another limit for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, than there is for the government and for me, and that is actually natural when we look at what kind of political background and ideological position we each have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175759	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175803	Thank you. I think it is interesting to hear the Minister talk about the fact that, in principle, we cannot talk about the service framework right now when we heard the Socialist rapporteur earlier about the possibility of better welfare as a result of the reform we are talking about today. There was talk of 5.5 billion. DKK 6.5 billion kr., which was available. Why, then, is it that we cannot get an answer as to whether that money is actually going to be spent? Because it doesn't bring better welfare if they're not allowed to be used. So I think it's weird. And I am quite sure that the municipalities would not complain if the minister in here stated that the money they were given could of course also be used. I'm sure they'll stay on their feet and not ask for extra money. Then we cannot be told now and here: when the 6.5 billion. kr. I hope that you will be able to use them in the municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528175853	You can talk about the service framework here. What I cannot do here is negotiate with the Danish Parliament about what kind of service it is and what kind of building framework the municipalities will have next year. This happens when you negotiate economics with municipalities and regions, as we do in these hours and days right over in the red building next door. However, it is clear that we have had a compensatory reform that has been broken; on some of the parameters it has actually gone wrong, and on others we have not seen a compensatory reform that has made up enough for the growing challenges of certain regions and parts of our country. It is the outermost municipalities, the islands and the rural areas, but it is also some of the municipalities that face the heaviest social challenges in our metropolitan area. At the same time, for several years now, every year we have had to give a liquid grant to the municipalities, the so-called financing grant, because some of the poorest municipalities, the most disadvantaged municipalities, simply have not had the means to reach the service framework they had. After all, with this compensatory reform, both because we are redistributing more, and because we are putting in increased state funding, there will be better opportunities to deliver that welfare and, incidentally, stability and calm that this option will not only be there in year 1, but also in year 2, year 3, year 4. And then I am glad to hear that the Danish People's Party is happy that we now have a government that actually believes that when more children and more older people arrive, more money is needed. I am sure there would have been a great deal of satisfaction in the municipalities if the enthusiasm had also been reflected in the economic agreements concluded by the previous government. Because it means something out there... I'm not saying anything except that it obviously also matters out there what kind of service you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180035	Well, it is actually very interesting that the funding is now mentioned. If it has been able to be linked in previous years, it is because there has been huge savings in certain municipalities, so there are more than 40 billion. kr. in some municipal coffers, and if they had been used, it would not have been possible. So I have to ask: what am I really going to put into it when the Socialist rapporteur earlier stood here and said that there are now 6.5 billion? kr. for better welfare? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180108	This means, of course, that with this compensation reform and the rapporteur knows it too, there will be increased government funding of the municipalities by 6.5 billion. kr. Next year and 5.5 billion. kr. lasting. This means something for the municipal funds and for the municipalities to be able to provide proper welfare and also to be able to have security and planning that goes further than that, as the system has been so far, where, year by year, financing grants have been negotiated in place; moreover, recognising that the compensation system we had did not work and was not sufficient. And it is a happy situation that we are now in a place where we have provided for fairer compensation, where the differences are reduced, but also have ensured a fundamental security of funding by putting more state funding in the municipalities. The President simply has such a frightening technique where he starts to sit and knock on the table when he is not allowed to say anything anymore!
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180156	It's because I'm practicing some small, cautious educational things... I've messed up in a number of areas. I have heard that you can say thank you, thank you, thank you, in the middle of others talking. I'd rather not. So I'm trying to look at the minister, and if you can't make eye contact, it's hard. That's why I try just as carefully to knock lightly on the table. Everyone can hear that, but it doesn't bother much. But I'd like to find another way if someone works. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180230	The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180237	I think it's the plexiglass up there that does it. That's where the dog is buried, sir. Madam President. Let us try to become a little more concrete then, and let us not thematicise sports halls and everything else. Let's take it to run a municipality, and let's be very specific: Hjørring Municipality gets 59 million. kr. However, the municipality of Hjørring is run more expensively than the surrounding municipalities. So not municipalities in a completely different place in the country, but some who have the same people who live there and roughly the same income basis etc. But, with comparable figures, it is driven 100 million. kr. more expensive than the municipality of Jammerbugt, which is next door, and 75 million. kr. more expensive than the municipality of Brønderslev. It's quite a lot of money and more than what you get in compensation. In addition, they spend 25 million. kr. more in the cultural field than the surrounding municipalities. And then you can say: that is fair enough, they have to decide for themselves that there is municipal autonomy, and they can decide for themselves whether they want to run their municipality more expensive and whether they want to spend more money on culture. But is it reasonable that they should have even more money in a compensatory reform when they are not willing to lower operating costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180343	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign up to the New Citizens' rapporteur for the nice words about the course of negotiations. I have experienced it completely accordingly and have greatly appreciated the discussions and discussions that have taken place, and I saw a very constructive and real approach to things. That is why I would also like to say that it is not surprising to me that this is what is taking place in the debate for the new citizens. And I don't know if I can really say that New Citizens are running in an open door. But yes, somewhere along the way it will please New Citizens that some of what we are discussing with the municipalities right now, among other things. is about administration and about the use of external consultants. And I actually think so too, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen knows from our discussions over there. It is also something that we are concerned about as a government: can we release resources for core welfare, which are spent on external consultants, on recruitment consultants, on what are now examples out there? I am not going to stand here sneaking them up, it will soon be such a ridicule, because of course there is money that is being spent well and necessary on IT systems and other things. But we certainly believe that it is worth it, and the municipalities have shown, following the economic agreement we made last year, that they can deliver on it, thus creating a reduction in administrative costs. And we are discussing this with them again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180502	Yes, because the cost of external consultants is actually going the wrong way, even if you want them down, they have actually increased. And I am happy if you take the spoon in the other hand and say that this does not happen by itself, but that we simply have to set very specific percentage requirements. In fact, this is what New Citizens proposed when we spoke about the financial law: that is, that this requirement should be put on both the regions and the municipalities and also the various areas of the state: a budget, a percentage reduction. They must then deliver on that, and if they do not, then of course there must be a consequence. And I'm glad if that's the case. Then you can just say that when the City of Tønder can spend 250,000 kroner. on a slogan and Aarhus Municipality spends 1 million. kr. at a golf tournament etc., there are also some areas where you have to say: Maybe the municipalities should also look inward and then focus on the basic core welfare tasks instead of everything that is nice to have instead of need to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180551	One can hardly be familiar with that way of mentioning a slogan without mentioning what it is. It's gonna have to be the first thing I google when I come down from the platform. In other words, as rapporteur of the Left, I think that has been a great help in the debate here before, I am very pleased that we have a local authority. Yes, you can point out some expenses that may look crazy, and I actually think that we usually do well to ensure that the discussions in here also become more fundamental. And I think it is of great value that we have local selfgovernment, that we have local politicians who are also very familiar with the particular challenges and issues and strengthens them. It may well be that culture is a force and a strength and something that attracts both jobs and income. It may be part of a conscious strategy, but I must not stand here drifting or wise myself on that. But it can be just part of what we get from having the strong municipal autonomy that we have. So it is a both-and-for-for-what the New Citizens' rapporteur says. On the one hand, I very much agree. After all, we have also made demands, tough demands, on ourselves in the state about the use of external consultants, and we should also expect the municipalities to do so in relation to administrative costs. On the other hand, I also have very great respect for and believe that we will have a very great value in having a municipal autonomy. Now I'd better stop, or the President will throw that thing in my head.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180718	It's only the first time you have one minute. And I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180724	Thank you. I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that perhaps negotiations are already under way on whether the service framework should be raised. But can the Minister confirm that? And then I would like to hear from the Minister whether it was the government and the Left that agreed in the negotiations, that is to say that the service framework had to be increased. As I said, we are in the midst of an historic crisis, the worst since World War II. Does the government and the Left agree that we can afford to raise the service framework and spend some more money in the public sector because we have enough money at a time when our private business is going to collapse? Is the government prepared to say that we are just raising the service ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180835	This is true in relation to this issue, as it has been in relation to the other issues, that when we negotiated compensatory reform, we did not negotiate the local economy; these are two different things. The compensatory reform is about what kind of engine we build up when it comes to redistribution between municipalities. And then the discussion about both municipality economy and finance law, and what else might come of additional money for the municipalities, is a discussion about what we put into the balancing engine. That is why the short answer is that the Left and the Social Democratic Party did not sit and negotiate the municipal economy when we negotiated compensation there we negotiated compensation. And the discussion about the service framework is, of course, a discussion that takes place in the economic negotiations with the municipalities, with the regions and with the government in place at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528180920	This means that the Left has so much confidence in the government and the Finance Minister that when you are going to sit here and negotiate local economy, it is so that you in the Left are quite calm that you are now handing out money to the municipalities at a time when Denmark's business community is bleeding. I'm very excited to see that. And then I want to hear about something from the minister. It is constantly mentioned that 6.5 billion is being added to the municipalities. kr. Let us not agree that the 3.5 billion. kr., namely the liquidity grant, has been there in recent years and that it is not new money? Now it's faded with the 6.5 billion. kr. throughout the debate. Do we not agree that it is 3 billion? DKK added in addition to the 3.5 billion. kr., as in previous years, has been the subject of cash-flow grants?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181023	I can reply very briefly to that last point. The temporary 1-year financing grant is, of course, in its nature and has by its very nature been one-year and temporary, and so it is new money when you undertake to dispose of it permanently. And then I have to say that the picture that it would be wrong to make sure that our home helpers in home care actually have time for the elderly and that there are educators in kindergarten and schoolteachers in school for our children, because, due to the corona crisis, we had to make a severe slowing down of the municipalities' finances, I am just politically very, very disagreeing. And I also believe that we have used the community to keep our hands on business, and I think that our social model of education and welfare, where we can be confident that the kids are being cared for while you are doing your job, etc., is an essential part of the answer to how we get out of this corona crisis properly, which is also a social crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181119	Thank you, Minister. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181146	The debate is open. And the first to speak is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181203	Thank you. Just as we were pleased with the compensation that we discussed in the previous proposal, we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased that, in the context of the agreement, we are also now receiving increased reimbursement in expensive social matters to the municipalities. In short, this bill ensures that more cases are covered by reimbursements and some also by higher reimbursements than today. The increased reimbursement is collectively financed by the municipalities under one. In this way, it is a solidarity payment to the municipalities which have the actual cost of the expensive social cases. This is very well linked to a fairer equalisation system. It can be a very significant cost for a municipality when the expensive social cases hit, and for many municipalities this brings with it a great deal of unpredictability in terms of social costs. Of course, especially those municipalities which have many social cases. That is why we are taking an extremely important step with the legislative proposal. With the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, the government focused on vulnerable children. And in fact, we already proposed an increase in reimbursement in very expensive cases and the possibility of summing up the costs of all children in a sibling group in one refund case. That is why we are pleased that we can now, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, deliver on those ambitions. The proposal we are debating now, together with the issue of compensation as a whole, gives municipalities much greater budgetary security, and it gives greater certainty that the economy is not the decisive factor when engaging in social efforts. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181343	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed very quickly with the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181354	Thank you for that, President. With the bill here, which we have now moved on to, it is part of the compensation agreement itself, which has then been moved into a legislative proposal for itself, namely the adjustment of the central reimbursement system. The draft law provides for the uniform application of the two reimbursement schemes in the field of children and young people and adulthood respectively, so that in future it will be the same. This includes, among other things: a reduction in the thresholds for adulthood to match the limits for children and young people, and a new limit is also proposed to allow municipalities to receive a refund of 75%. Across the Danish map we see that there are large differences in relation to the number of children and young people who are placed. Therefore, there are also major differences in terms of managing the economy if you are one of the municipalities, such as Denmark. I've got a lot of these cases. That is why there is good reason why we are now adapting things so that there is better balance in these areas as well. This will create more predictability for the municipalities, which will also make it easier for the municipalities to plan their finances. In fact, we know very well that this is perhaps also the starting point for what we know the government is going to tackle in relation to looking at the location area as well. This was one of the priorities of the Prime Minister in the New Year's speech. And we in the Left feel that what you do must, of course, always be what is best for the children; it is the children who must come first. But what I also welcome in this bill is, among other things, the fact that we are going in and making refunds, a better refund, in a more holistic and preventive effort for the whole family. And that's some of what I think is important. All in all, it is a good bill that we in the Left support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181611	Thank you for that to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments. The next one I'd like to welcome is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181624	There is very good thinking in the proposal to increase reimbursement, as it may be so large that it can actually overturn a municipality's budget. The key must, of course, be that the right offer is always chosen for the individual child or adult, but also that preventive action has weight. Therefore, as a starting point, the elements of the proposal are very good, because they have as a starting point to provide a basis for making the right choices, both in terms of prevention and the choice of action in relation to the whole family. Where we in the Danish People's Party are concerned is when the municipalities themselves have to pay for the compensation. We are concerned because we can see a development that points to an increasing number of cases and that they are spread across all municipalities. It is a development which, among other things, is: In the light of the series of cases which were there a few years ago, which showed that too many cases were not reported and acted as they should. Fortunately, this has led to strong efforts in many municipalities, focusing on raising awareness of reporting and follow-up. This means, fortunately, that more problems are being identified, but also that there will be more cases in most municipalities. The fact that the municipalities have to pay for themselves means that if you now imagine that the cases are spread across all the municipalities, the municipalities will just pay for the effort via a lower block grant corresponding to what they receive in reimbursement. That is why, in committee, we want to clarify the development of such social matters in the municipalities and, in this context, an overview of the redistribution effect of the agreement. Because we do not want to support a system that does not solve the challenge, and if it turns out that you just pay for your own refund, the system does not benefit. But the work of the committee must show this, and we look forward to getting clarification on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181810	You're welcome, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, and warm welcome to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181826	As part of the agreement on the revision of compensation, a political agreement has been reached on the reimbursement of local authorities from the State for the cost of expensive individual cases, and that is what we are implementing today. As has already been said, we are moving the refund limit upwards, so it is now 75 percent reimbursement in the expensive children's and adult cases, and at the same time we are allowing the municipalities to pool all children in a sibling group and to exceed the total cost of 2 million. kr. per year, the increased refund is triggered. This is a beneficial legislative proposal which we warmly support. This will make it considerably easier for poor municipalities with many children's cases to act properly, because one thing is that it may become more predictable with the economy, but another thing is that we also remove a negative incentive to choose cheaper solutions for municipalities. And that should be of benefit to those concerned: the children and young people who are ahead of them, for example. a place outside the home. The bill also brings together the rules for reimbursements in the area of children and young people and adulthood and abolishes the 67-year-old limit for reimbursements, and we are also pleased with this. All in all, we warmly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181936	You're welcome, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and warmly welcome to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528181952	Yes, that is absolutely correct. As mentioned earlier in today's debate, SF is happy to be part of the agreement on a new compensatory reform, because then we can help to ensure a better balance for Denmark. Over recent years, municipalities have experienced increasing pressure in the specialized social area, where there are much more citizens and pressured municipal funds. That is why we also support this proposal for an adjustment of the central reimbursement system in particularly expensive individual cases in the area of children and adults. In this way, as a society, we can share much more the high costs that can often be incurred in the expensive individual cases and thus avoid these cases being involved in overturning the budget, not least in the smaller municipalities and in the municipalities that have put pressure on the economy. Worst of all, it is when you as a municipality do not choose the right solution for the first time. It should not be a secret that in the SF we would have liked to have seen an even higher rate of reimbursement and a previous phase-in of a joint financing, so that the state or municipalities across the board took on greater responsibility in the expensive individual cases and that the principle of a higher rate of reimbursement had also come to include the new early retirement pensionists. We also see a clear advantage in the proposal in that you can now pool the costs in cases with just one sibling. Thus, the municipalities will receive more financial support for families in need of support for more children, and this, of course, strengthens the possibility of compensating in cases of sibling flocks. SF supports the proposal as a contractual partner, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182128	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. Welcome, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182141	Thank you. There is a need for a fairer and more solidarity-based coverage of the costs incurred by the municipalities of the country in the specialized social field. The support and assistance needed to provide children, young people and adults in this area is often very resource-intensive, which means that some municipalities have very high costs for helping a relatively small number of citizens and that expenditure in the specialised area will weigh very heavily in the overall economy of the municipalities concerned. There is therefore a considerable degree of coincidence in the distribution of expenditure in the specialized social area, but I also think it is important to emphasise that there is much evidence that the whole way in which the economy is organised can lead to a very border-seeking procedure, where excessive emphasis is placed on economic considerations at the expense of professional considerations when deciding whether to respond to the needs of the citizens. We see this very clearly reflected in the very high number of changes made by the Ankestyrelsen every year in the municipal case decisions. That is why there is a great need to change the funding in the specialized area, and although we in the Enhedslist are not included in the overall agreement reached on the local economy, we think that the legislative proposal we are discussing here is, in isolation, a really sensible step. It is quite reasonable that a reduction in the threshold for reimbursement to adulthood should be introduced in order to harmonise it with the area of children, and it is right that a new limit should be introduced where a higher refund should be granted in the most expensive cases. This means that there is greater equalisation, and this means that there is a fairer distribution of expenditure between municipalities. I would also like to point out that it is right to remove the age criterion or, at least, to change it in such a way that the municipalities can be reimbursed for expenditure on citizens who have reached the age of 67 if the citizens concerned have been covered by the reimbursement scheme before the 67th year. This is a matter which has rightly been the subject of the disability organisations for many years, and I think it is very good that this is being dealt with here. Having said that, I would also like to say that, although we think it is a sensible step, much more needs to be done. If we go in and look at the reimbursement limits that have now been laid and compare them with the limits laid down in connection with the municipal reform, we will see that there was a limit of DKK 400 000 if you had to have a reimbursement of 25% and a limit of 800 000 if you had to have a refund of 50 per cent. Those of us who were not so enthusiastic about the municipal reform had the vague suspicion that it could cause the bitter pill to sink, and it was also the case that in the years following the municipal reform the ceiling was raised so that the possibility of a fair distribution became smaller and smaller in the municipalities. So it is only to say that it is really sensible to change the limits here, but just a glance at the legislation following the municipal reform shows that this is hardly enough, and I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl in that the weakness of this is, of course, that it alone is a better distribution of funds, and that it was of course desirable to have an increase in the total resources for this area. That is why I would just like to say in conclusion that we are looking forward very soon to evaluating the area of disability, which is only part of the overall specialized social area. We have a strong hope that once that evaluation has taken place, we will have to make changes, including the funding in this area, and then I hope that we will also achieve the desire that I share with the DF's rapporteur that we should have more funding, but we think it is very sensible that we should have a better and fairer distribution in this legislation. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182644	Thank you. There were no brief comments. And if we think back 50 years, the President would have said: then the President would like to welcome the honourable Member, sir. Orla Østerby, on the platform of the Thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182657	Thank you, President. L 197 is about the adaptation of the central reimbursement system. At the heart of this is the agreement that the State reimbursement of the municipality's expenditure under the Social Services Act in the individual adult case is modified so that the threshold for the reimbursement scheme in the adult area corresponds to the threshold in the children's field, and that is, in Conservatives' view, very sensible. It is also proposed that, in a single case, reimbursement may continue after the age of 67 for persons who were covered by the reimbursement scheme immediately before the age of 67. Then there is the proposal to extend the sibling scheme so that all the costs of a sibling flock can be summed up in one refund case and that the cost of measures can be included, whether the measure is provided at home or by placement outside the home. Finally, this adjustment of the reimbursement system has no economic impact on the public sector as a whole. The increased payment of reimbursement to the municipalities is matched by a regulation of the municipal block grant. Although the Conservative People's Party cannot vote in favour of L 196, we support these amendments in L 197 because it makes sense and thus we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182840	Thank you, sir. Østerby, and welcome to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182901	Thank you so much. Well, we are not part of the compensation agreement... this L 196, which has just been dealt with as our rapporteur was also given, but we are in fact completely in agreement with the need to act in good time and in the right way in this area. Care must be taken to ensure that there are not so many errors and to ensure that those who need to be dealt with are taken care of. We have some questions about this particular model, about the way in which it is done, and we need to answer them before we can finally say whether or not we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182942	Thank you so much. It was short and cash. There are no brief comments, which is why I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior who just met his colleague. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528182958	Thank you for that, Mr President. Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs here for their consideration of this proposal. I am very, very pleased with the positive reception, and I would also like to acknowledge all the good observations that have been made about how crucial it is to be able to do what is right for vulnerable children and for people with disabilities, and that it should not be the price that is crucial. After all, we all know that there is also a bias in how many citizens need community help in the field of vulnerable areas, children and the specialized social area for adults, and the bias is that in some municipalities it is something that pushes more than in others. That is why this was part of the compensatory reform and agreement. But I would also like to sign that there are parties that are not part of it and do not support it, but that can see themselves in this. I think this is an important proposal. I am not going to repeat what has been so well explained from up here, but it is a proposal which concerns both vulnerable children and adults with disability and which offers better opportunities for the efforts that need to be made to take care of these people who need community help not to overturn the economy of a vulnerable municipality. So I really do not think I want to add so many more words to it but to welcome the fact that we can gather so widely in the Danish Parliament about this, and I will allow myself to take that down, because it makes me optimistic about the discussions that are ahead, both following the government's initiative to put the children first and the child's law and the discussion that also follows on from the evaluation of the specialized social area. So this is going to be discussed in other contexts, and I would just like to welcome the fact that there is a broad awareness of it in the Folketing and a constructive approach to it as we have seen here today. Is it allowed to continue, and is it not? Thank you for the receipt of the bill, I would say. I am, of course, available to answer questions there were a few here which we can clarify during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528183217	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. No one else has asked for the floor, and that brings the negotiations to an end. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528183237	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 June 2020. I would like to say to the rapporteurs that you must remember that, if you have proposals to be read, you have the right to read it out outside your agreed speaking time. There was a very nervous rapporteur the other day who thought it was all to be achieved within one's speaking time, and that is why it went really, really fast. But you can take it a little more calmly if you have to read out a proposal for adoption. We're gonna have to hear Mr. Kim first. Rasmus Nordqvist justifies the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528183344	Thank you. Since the Corona crisis began, we have seen a series of actions in countries around the world which have reduced both the opportunities for democracy and the opportunities for expression and, therefore, genuinely violated fundamental rights. Unfortunately, steps have also been taken in Europe within the European Union, where some countries have gone a long way in their zeal, perhaps even to say that they have used the corona crisis as an excuse to make some moves at times, which have been so much on the border. However, it is very good that today we can have a discussion with the Minister about what the consequences, as they were, have been for the rule of law, the fundamental rights of the European Union in relation to the legislation implemented in the Member States, but probably also what else has been used for excuses to push something forward. Among other things: We have seen it with Law 33 in Hungary, which really is a restriction on the rights of transpersonals. So the question is, in all its simplicity, about what has been seen in relation to the rule of law, the fundamental rights of the European Union, with particular focus on Hungary, which is almost itself asking for special attention to be paid to this over and over again. And, of course, it is also a question of hearing what action has been taken by the government in relation to these things, i.e. what dialogue you have had with the countries and what steps you have taken. So, on behalf of the questioners, I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to the discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528183530	Thank you. The time has come for the Foreign Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528183541	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for all the questions. Rasmus Nordqvist for the reasons. It is a very important debate that we have here today. In other words, respect for the rule of law and fundamental values are at the heart of any modern democratic society. At the same time, it is the whole foundation of our EU cooperation. And that is why we must take it very seriously when justified and recurring doubts are raised as to whether our common values are being respected in an EU country, as has unfortunately been the case for Hungary and Poland over a number of years. The European Union is a very special community, a community where members are closely integrated, and we are so closely integrated that we share money, about laws, about standards and that requires trust. This also means that we can and must make great demands on each other. That is why, unfortunately, there are good reasons for today's debate, which is why I would like to thank the authors again, because this initiative is very important. In Hungary, this is not a single specific problem, but rather a broader development over a number of years, which, overall, gives cause for serious concern as to whether the rule of law and our common set of values are being respected. It is not just something that I and the Danish Government think it is an assessment that is widely shared among international organisations and observers with particular expertise. And let me just give you a few examples. The Venice Commission has expressed concerns about changes in the judiciary, which in the long term risk giving the government influence on the outcome of specific cases. The European Journalists' Association has pointed out difficult conditions for the free press. The OSCE has pointed to unequal conditions of competition in parliamentary elections, which give the government a significant advantage and make it difficult for the opposition to compete. And the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has expressed concern about the government's stigmatisation of sections of civil society. In the European Union, the Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary due to changes in the law relating, for example, to: the judicial system, the conditions for NGOs and academic freedom. However, in addition to specific legislative changes, this is also a difficult political climate, with a serious risk of self-censorship being exercised for fear of the consequences that a critical article or a politically undesirable action might have. The emergency legal measures adopted by the Hungarian Government in connection with the Covid-19 crisis were therefore not the beginning, but rather the latest steps in a long and worrying development, and the measures are particularly worrying, because there are indications that democratic control in Hungary has already been weakened. The concern about emergency justice measures is one of the main concerns. on the lack of a time limit for the wide-ranging exceptional powers which allow the government to introduce measures through decrees. It reduces democratic control when the government does not have to justify it to the parliament on an ongoing basis, which is why we need powers. An even more worrying element is the criminalisation of so-called desinformation, which is considered to undermine the government's actions. Disinformation is a challenge that we all have to face, but the Hungarian approach is worrying because of the high penalties of up to 5 years in prison and because it creates uncertainty as to what is considered a criminal offence. This particularly affects journalists whose work has already been challenged, and the EU Commissioner for Values has mentioned a worrying example of a journalist who was picked up early in the morning by police because of a facebook listing with information on the number of hospital beds available. The Hungarian Government has this week indicated that from June it will start rolling back emergency measures. This will, of course, be an important step forward, and I will follow with great interest whether and how it happens. At the same time, however, I have to stress that the problems in Hungary, as I have said, are unfortunately about much more than emergency justice measures. Another development in Hungary, which I am following with concern, is evidence of increasing pressure on the rights of refugees. It has most recently been in the form of a change of law, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist refers to which, in fact, makes it impossible to obtain legal recognition of gender change. The law is not directly related to the government's extraordinary powers, but one might then wonder why the change of law with such fundamental human consequences is being implemented in a time of crisis. Although there are politically different approaches in the Member States in the field of immigration, there should be no doubt that human rights must be guaranteed for all our citizens. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has warned that the amendment of the law is contrary to human rights standards and case law. We have also raised Danish concerns about the proposal with the Hungarian Government. At the same time, we must not forget that it is only through an independent judiciary and strong democratic control that we can protect all citizens' rights. That is why we will also be concerned about signs that the rule of law is weakened. Unfortunately, it is not only in Hungary that there is cause for concern. International organisations have also warned about the state of the rule of law in Poland. In January we saw extraordinary European judges, including the President of the Danish Court of Justice, demonstrate in Warsaw in support of their Polish colleagues. The occasion was the increasing political influence on the courts. A Polish judge can ultimately be as important to Danish companies and citizens as a Danish judge, and therefore we cannot afford to turn a blind eye when the independence of Polish courts is undermined. I'm worried, it's no secret. It is important that we defend democratic values when they are threatened. This must, of course, be dealt with first and foremost through the European Union and international organisations, and there are currently Article 7 cases against Hungary and Poland. Denmark has been one of the most active countries during the consultations. We have asked critical questions and we have also conducted an honest dialogue. Denmark is also one of the main advocates of a rule of law mechanism in the EU, which should allow economic consequences if a Member State is simply to have a stronger link between rights and obligations, including with regard to the EU budget. In general, we work to strengthen the EU's capacity to prevent and deal with the problems of the rule of law, and we intervene in cases before the European Court of Justice when it makes sense. Most recently in a case against Poland concerning this disciplinary regime for judges, which further pushes the independence of the judges' decisions, Denmark intervened and also. We also raise our concerns in international fora. Among other things, we did. at my request a few weeks ago, through a joint Nordic letter in the Council of Europe on Hungarian emergency law measures. But I also raise the difficult issues bilaterally, in other words directly with the Hungarian Government. For example: I was the first to make contact with my Hungarian Foreign Minister's colleague when concerns about the Hungarian emergency measures arose, and we have also taken up with them the controversial Hungarian bill on gender change from Denmark. For Denmark, together with our like-minded leader, is taking the lead in defending the rule of law and fundamental rights. We have done so historically, among other things. as the driving force behind the Copenhagen criteria, which we adopted during our presidency here in Copenhagen, and we are now doing so. And I would like to stress that this isn't about punishing anyone. Hungary and Poland are among Denmark's close friends, partners and allies. Their people know about anyone what it means to fight for freedom and democracy, and I have great respect for that. However, we in Denmark have to speak out when there is justified concern that governments in Poland and Hungary are managing power in a way that pushes the rule of law. The strength of the European Union comes very much from our democratic foundation, which is why we have a joint responsibility to keep each other on the Copenhagen criteria. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184441	You're welcome. There is now a single brief comment to be made to the Minister for Foreign Affairs from each rapporteur. The first is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184453	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for that clear speech, because that is so much needed now. This is something that, as the Foreign Minister also says, has not only started now, but is just the latest step. And if you look ahead, one thing is to get the instruments into the budget, but another is to have an instrument that works and that we have for the protection and promotion of democracy and the rule of law in the European Union, something that is, after all, part of the MFF negotiations. Is it also a desire from the government to strengthen it, as we have seen from the European Parliament, so that it should not just go on as it is, but that, because we see greater pressure on some fundamental values in the European Union, it is something that must also be strengthened, so that we face this more strongly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184543	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. For me and the government, of course, it is quite clear that EU funds should not go to Member States that do not respect our common values. After all, we agree on this, and we are also fighting for this by the Danish Government, which is why it is also positive that there has been broad support among the Member States for the Commission's proposal for a rule of law mechanism, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also refers to. I welcome the mandate given to me in the European Committee last autumn on the rule of law mechanism. It is a mandate that shows how important a case it is, and it is still gone, and the government is therefore fighting hard for an effective rule of law mechanism. This is also true in the key MFF negotiations. It is the case that the mandate for the central MFF negotiations is on top of a large number of the mandates, the individual sectoral proposals, which the Folketing has given to their Resort Ministers. So we're fighting for this case, and I agree that we have to link this together because we're in a community of values in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184638	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184640	It is good to hear that the Minister in various forums takes up this when there is a breach of the rule of law. Then I would just like to know whether the Foreign Minister has also taken it up with the Social Democratic Slovak Government that there have been some very worrying killings of journalists who, at least in press speculations, have been linked to the Social Democratic Government. I would also like to ask whether the Foreign Minister has put questions to the Social Democratic Government in Malta in connection with the blogger Daphne Caruana Galizia, who has exposed the Prime Minister's wife's hiding of tax money in Panama. She was executed, too. I would also like to know whether the Foreign Minister has raised critical issues with the Socialist Government in Romania, which has, after all, implemented legislation that effectively blocks the fight against corruption, or perhaps with the social democratic government in Bulgaria, where corruption was at one point so extensive that the European Union chose to stop the transfer of money. Or is it only national conservative governments that the Secretary of State is concerned about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184754	It is completely irrelevant which government is in power in a given EU country. This is about something as fundamental as the rule of law and fundamental values, and it takes up Denmark no matter what. Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also well, how much I in my previous capacity also fought the case. For example, I have met with the Maltese journalist, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt refers to before she was assassinated by a car bomb in Malta. This is something that we must take very seriously. I fully agree with that, if that is what is in the question. I do not, and I hope the questioner does not, have any wish that we should deal with which government is sitting. It is about something much more fundamental, and I also hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti support the idea that the EU should be a community of values, a community based on fundamental values and the rule of law, and that when someone breaks them, we have to take it up regardless of who it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184848	Only one comment can be made in this round, but the Minister will return to the platform when the rapporteurs have spoken. So there are two options for making brief comments. I would like to thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the debates and the general rules for short remarks, which means one brief comment in one minute and one in one and a half minutes. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528184918	I remember from last year before the European Parliament elections that Charlottenborg Kunsthal here in Copenhagen had an exhibition about Europe and Europe as a political community. There were posters from referendums with yes and no, there were posters from the Brexit vote, there were a number of artists who had reflected on the political discussion in the European Union, and the curator of this exhibition had also chosen to bring up the Charter of Fundamental Rights, that is to say, what rights we are building on. When you work with EU policy, as we do in this Chamber, I sometimes think you forget it and actually forget how beautiful a basis it is that we have chosen to build our community on, which ought to be something we reminded ourselves of before we went to every meeting, whether we should talk about transport policy or agricultural policy, that is, what it really is for a community we have, and what it is for some values, it should be based on the values that we have our personal freedom, that we have a community and must help each other, but that we are allowed to be who we are and, of course, the values of our democracy. Unfortunately, we have just seen over the last few years that this is something that is under pressure, and it is not just in Europe. We see a number of places in the world that some of the absolutely fundamental rights and values we had are suddenly being proclaimed a lie. Some people call human rights a lie. All the things that in my reality have been the starting point for any political talk that we actually have, we have also really seen ourselves under pressure in Europe over the last few years, especially in Hungary, which is also mentioned here in the question, but there are also other countries. When the corona crisis started, a great many countries took steps to act quickly, and we did so at home too, but some countries may have just chosen to forget some of the fundamental principles that still need to be present. It has been seen in Hungary that the demonstrations organized week after week by opposition politicians could no longer take place physically. They were then tried to make them that people could honk with their car horns. That's what the cops took over. The action was taken on what was called fake news, which is also something of an abuse of the concept on the part of Hungary, where people were pressured, compared to the fact that, if they criticized the government, it was considered fake news. There were people arrested for sharing criticism of the government and later released, but the pressure that has been put on people is something that I think it is very, very important that we are very clear about shouting about in all the forums we have, of course from the government, but I also think it is really important that we here in Parliament are clear in the language, and that is why I am pleased with this question today. For that is something that is also happening in other parliaments, and there has also been the debate in the European Parliament. The question also raises the question of special beneficiaries, and that was because, as in the shelter of this emergency law in Hungary, it suddenly adopted what is called Law 33, which deprives transpersonals of fundamental rights. It has nothing to do with it, but funny enough it's just being pushed into the shelter of this, and it puts a minority group under extreme pressure, a minority group that we should protect and stand for. That is why I am very pleased that there are so many of us who have called for this debate today to say loud and clear where it is that we are standing here on the part of the Folketing, and I would also like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative, Radical Left and the SF, and it says: the proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it essential that the EU Member States respect fundamental values and democratic principles which are the foundations of EU cooperation and for free democratic societies. We must never compromise on democracy or on the freedom, dignity, legal certainty and equality of the individual citizen. Parliament notes with concern that individual EU Member States, including Hungary, have developed towards less freedom, democracy and legal certainty, and that the trend has deteriorated during the covid-19 crisis. This can have serious consequences for the individual citizen, particularly for LGBTI people and minority groups in general. Parliament calls on the government to take the lead in ensuring that the EU's fundamental values and democratic principles are maintained and that all means of EU law are used to prevent and combat discrimination. The Danish Parliament supports that the Foreign Minister has raised concerns in the EU, the Council of Europe and bilaterally, and that Denmark is fighting for a strong and effective rule of law mechanism that allows economic consequences when Member States violate the rule of law. V 73). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185518	You're welcome. This will be part of the further negotiations. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185526	I'm just gonna have to deal with that question, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist raises about the law allegedly passed in Hungary on gender, asking whether Mr. Norqvist believes that we are antidemocratic or at odds with human rights if we do not, as Mr. Nordqvist presumably does, believes that gender is something one has to decide for oneself. As I understand it, in these minority groups, or at least in some of them, there is the view that Mr. Nordqvist can probably correct me if I'm wrong that there is, it's 22 genders. I'm just gonna ask sir. Nordqvist: Are those countries that may not have an authoritative recognition of all the 22 genders, according to Mr. Norqvist as undemocratic or acting in violation of human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185614	I started by talking about the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which, of course, emphasizes that each of us can be who we are and live freely, and one of those things is to get recognition of one's sex. What has been done with this law is to deprive someone of a right that they had. This has also been strongly criticised by a number of international organisations, precisely because they compromise individual rights and individual freedom. So here I think we are acting antidemocraticly when we make such a law that in this way suppresses the freedom of the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185658	Now I have the Charter of Fundamental Rights in front of me, and I cannot find it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist mentions. Perhaps he will help me and tell me what kind of provision it is that speaks of gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185704	There is no provision that refers to gender. But there's the freedom to be who you are, and that's exactly what this is all about. It's being who you are, being able to live free as who you are. These are the values on which the European Union is founded and which I think are very important to stand up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185723	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185741	I would like to start by commending two parties. First of all, I would like to commend the SF for raising this debate on the situation in Hungary, which is not just any country but is an important country in our European family. Unfortunately, the situation in the country has taken a sad turn lately, which is worth a critical focus. It is of course important to remember that our countries are different • we have a different story, we have other traditions and we have different ways of living. And there must be room for that. It is only a strength for Europe that there is room for diversity. However, one cannot compromise on the fact that the Member States of the European Union do not comply with the rule of law and democratic values. That is why we are very concerned about the legislation, for example. has just been adopted in Hungary, which is losing Parliament and which allows for up to five years in prison for journalists who criticise the government's actions in relation to corona. This is totally unacceptable. And it is also sad reading to read the annual report on freedom of the press, where Hungary is no. 87 out of 180 countries, and that is after countries such as El Salvador and Niger. The report was even made before Viktor Orbán's coronalov. We have also seen worrying developments when it comes to anti-Semitism in Hungary. Studies show that up to half the Hungarian population corresponds to classic anti-Semitic statements that the Jews control the media or that they are part of a secret network of opinions backed by anti-Semitic statements by some Hungarian politicians. And a month ago, the works of several famous Jewish writers were officially removed from compulsory reading in primary school and replaced by authors with strong anti-Semitic attitudes. Similarly, the country's large Roma minority has been the victim of discrimination and also of violent attacks by right-wing extremists and has had a feeling that it was not taken seriously. And we have seen the same development when it comes to lgbt rights, where development has stood still or has gone the opposite way when it comes to improving conditions for sexual minorities. I think I started by saying that I wanted to praise two parties, and the other party was actually the Conservative People's Party which is not here. But that may not be so important either, because it was actually said to Pernille Weiss, who is sitting in the European Parliament and who has taken a stand with Fidesz, who was part of the EPP group and still a little away it is; they are suspended, but she believes that they should finally come out. I think she deserves a lot of credit for taking this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185947	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528185949	I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Aslan Rasmussen agrees with Mr. Nordqvist in that if you do not recognise everyone's right to choose gender, and I understand there are 22 of them, you are an anti-Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190005	I don't quite know if that was it, sir. Nordqvist said; I didn't hear it that way. However, we are concerned in general when homosexual rights are trampled underfoot, whether it is in Hungary or elsewhere where it is much worse. And, of course, I am in favour of Hungary being a different society from the Danish one, and of other values that I respect, for example. Conservative family values or religion fill more than it does here in Denmark, it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190027	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190028	It cannot be ruled out that there should be Danish voters who do not agree that there should be an option between 22 genders on the CPR certificate, and it would just be nice to hear whether they from the Social Democrats, like being put in booths as anti-Democrats. I think that democracy will have such a very normative size, a very political size when you take that view, and I thought that democracy was about being able to defend the views you have openly. So when you hear that a certain political point of view is democratic and that another political point of view, that is to say the opposite, is undemocratic, it is, for me, totalitarian. That is why it is only important to know whether the governing party shares the view of the socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190111	For me, it is absolutely not undemocratic if you do not think there are 22 genders at all. And that is also why I spent a lot of time on anti-Semitism and a lack of freedom of the press and other things in Hungary, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will also discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190123	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190143	Thank you for the floor and thank you for giving us the opportunity to take this debate, which we in the Left think is very important indeed. Personal freedom is a fundamental right of a liberal, and that is why it is something that really matters to us, namely that state power should not impose restrictions on who you are. When we look at Hungary and Hungary's Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, what we are seeing right now is frightening. Because what you have chosen to do in Hungary is to take advantage of a health crisis... the corona crisis... where you have had some opportunities to rule by decree. That crisis is being misused to implement legislation that has nothing to do with covid-19. In practical terms, legislation has been put in place which restricts the rights of trans-nationals in Hungary. This is a legislative proposal of 31 March this year, which states that the Hungarian People's Register no longer mentions the gender that is at present, if I may say so, but instead states the sex that you had when you were born. And that means that transsexuals who have changed genders from man to woman or from woman to man are now being excluded from legal registration of this gender change. It is then a bill that comes very conveniently at a time when, due to the corona situation, Parliament has more or less been sent home and then has given Viktor Orbán the power to rule by decree and the legislature is therefore not even heard. The proposal is against the decisions of the Court of Human Rights, which establishes the duty of states to recognise transpersonality and allow legal change of sex. The draft law is thus another example of Viktor Orbán's less enthusiastic attitude towards Igbti people, I think we can say calmly. For this is not the first time that the Hungarian Prime Minister has tried to undermine the human rights of Igbti people. He's got, uh... refused to ratify the Istanbul Convention because of its definition of gender. And in 2015, he blocked a decision in the Council of Europe calling on the European Commission to counter homophobic and transphobic discrimination. These things may well be done, but it comes into a story where he has even gone so far as to simply prevent the State Opera from performing Elton John's musical • Billy Elliot • because it was thought that homosexuality was promoted. This is a sad development which is moving in the opposite direction of freedom, democracy and legal certainty, and these are values on which EU cooperation is based and which are the conditions for one to be allowed to be a member of the club at all. That is why, of course, we also support the use of all means under EU law to prevent and combat discrimination. It is absolutely necessary for us in the other EU countries to say no when this happens in one of our Member States. Here we are glad that the government will go in the front row we didn't expect any less. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised concerns both in the EU, in the Council of Europe and bilaterally. And I am also pleased to read the Foreign Minister's answer to question 83, which was asked on 18 November last year by the chairman of the European Committee of the Regions, my party colleague, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, where it can be seen that the government supports the Commission's ambition to strengthen the EU's tools to ensure the prevention and enforcement of the rule of law, including a proposal that non-compliance with the rule of law will have financial consequences. For that, then, it must be felt when countries do not comply with the common democratic rules and when countries go in and suppress the human rights of minority groups. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190605	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190608	Yes, sir. Jørgensen is a lawyer, and therefore knows that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, under Article 51, applies only to the implementation of EU law by the Member States. And that is why I would just like to ask what kind of directive or regulation it is in EU law specifically requiring countries to have the very liberal understanding of the gender issue, as Mr. Jørgensen is laying the groundwork.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190632	Just to get some misunderstandings in place, I would like to say that it is not the case that you have the right to choose between 22 different things that have to be in your passport on the basis of gender that is a misunderstanding. This was something that was brought forward in the debate before. It is about the right to change genders, i.e. if you have had a sex change operation, so you are now a man with a full beard and hair on your chest and male genitals instead of women, then of course you should not have standing in your passport etc. that you are a woman, because you are no longer; that is what it is all about. So it is not a question of being able to register that you are gay. I think that most people would have been deprived of your passport so that it was in your passport that you are a homosexual because it could lead to persecution in countries where you were not so enthusiastic about homosexuals. So I think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is trying to derail the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190725	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190726	No. Well, I'm just trying to understand sir. Jørgensen, because he said before that this was a matter that violated the rule of law, and that is why we in the European Union had to take action. And that is why I would just like to know what kind of directive it is in the European Union which then obliges the countries to implement it, as Mr. Jørgensen thinks that is sensible and that I may also think is sensible, but I do not want to cut off other people from thinking that is unreasonable. So if you are going to activate the rule of law instruments in the European Union as a result of this gender change legislation that has supposedly been implemented in Hungary, I just want to know what part of EU law it violates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190755	I'm quite sure that sir... Morten Messerschmidt can be informed of the Directive number and date of issue, etc. by putting a written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What we are talking about here today is fundamental rights, and it is therefore a human right to be able to live out its sexuality; it is a human right to be able to change sex. So it's not really that much anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190820	There are no more brief comments, and we thank Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. The next one on the platform is sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528190840	Thank you, President. It is rare to get such a fine presentation of what you really want to say, as that, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen just gave me here. Because in his speech Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's judgment against a country, but revealing enough at the end without being able to explain immediately what the legal basis of the judgment really is. It reveals quite well the problem covered by this whole debate, namely that it should not take place in a parliament. We elected representatives have been elected to mean something, and most people may think that other things would be quite strange, but I do mention it anyway, because it makes us stand in stark contrast with judges who have been elected to mean nothing but seek complete objectivity. That is why, in the rule of law, we normally choose to say that a judgment must be handed down, because that is only where those who are then convicted or acquitted can have some guarantee that it has been done fairly. And justice I can do, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist's awareness is one of the EU's fundamental values. On the other hand, to be judged by someone who has been elected to mean something gives unmistakably a suspicion that one is not judged on an objective basis because one has done something wrong, but simply because one belongs to a minority who thinks something other than what the majority might think, and therefore judges one. That is why it is a fundamental legal problem that, especially in the European Parliament, but now apparently also continues with this in the Folketing, we choose to judge a country. If the people of Hungary, Romania, Cyprus, Malta, Denmark, who are elected, have a office, do something contrary to the laws or judgments, or whatever it may be, it is obviously not other elected representatives who have to judge the person concerned, then one has a duty to ensure that the cases are brought where they can be soberly assessed, where the parties are allowed to be heard on the basis of legal principles, are allowed to present their cases, then they are allowed to argue for their cases, after which people who are not specifically politically informed give a judgment. What the majority of the Danish Parliament is proposing with this question is precisely the opposite, namely to assess politically, politically and politically, and that is exactly the opposite of what we would like to see, namely as a defender of the rule of law. The mere fact that, for that matter, we in the Folketing or the European Parliament can talk about judging a country by subtracting funds from the Structural Funds, or what I know, bears witness to how depraved democracy has become in reality in the European Union, because if anyone is to be judged in this way, it must of course be done not by political opponents, but by people who are independent. That is why we do not want to take part in this question debate, and that is why we do not want to be involved in your adoption. It is not because we are not concerned about what is going on around many EU countries, but because it is precisely important that we should not be the ones who pass judgment. I actually thought it had to be quite elementary for one of the most well-functioning, transparent and decent democracies in the European Union, but apparently it is not. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament is astonished that Hungary alone is being criticised for introducing corona emergency laws without sunset clause and with the transfer of far-reaching powers from parliament to government when several EU countries have introduced something similar. The Folketing notes that it is the right of every EU country to adapt as it wishes, with respect for fundamental principles of the rule of law, democracy and western freedoms. It is not a task for the Danish Parliament or the European Union to decide. Parliament finds it worrying that the EU in general, but the European Parliament in particular, is becoming increasingly involved in the internal affairs of the Member States. A parliament that behaves like a court of law violates the rule of law as much as a government that does not respect the courts. • V 74). Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191308	That will then be part of the further debate. For the time being, we have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191314	Thank you. It's pretty simple, isn't it? Democracy is about the majority deciding. Viktor Orbán has sent the parliament home and now decides for himself bypassing the parliament. It is not democratic. Democracy is also about protecting minorities, and by 2020 it is also about protecting sexual minorities, including transpersonals. So the question is, does Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti, that what is happening in Hungary is okay, that it is okay that people who have had a sex-change operation and have changed sex cannot be considered to be what they have become, namely a person belonging to the sex other than what they were born as? That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191402	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191403	With regard to the fact that Parliament has been sent home, I understand that it has now been decided to repeal the emergency law. We don't have that in Denmark yet. In other words, in Hungary, the state of emergency has been lifted and Parliament is fully functioning. That also means that if there is no majority in the Hungarian Parliament behind the law on gender, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentions, and they are now free to lift it again. It's gonna be so exciting to see if mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and his views have a majority in the Hungarian Parliament, or whether it does not. I actually think I agree with Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen here, but I do not agree so much that I am willing to say that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and my point of view are more important than what the Hungarian people might think. Because I'm dividing it up with what we learned in law school. Jan E. Jørgensen recalled positive and negative rights. Negative rights are, of course, the right to protection. It is so that no matter who you sleep with etc. But that does not mean that we have a positive right to define standards for the rest of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191512	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to speak again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191513	Thank you. It was very shapeful bypass. I have to admit that, but it was non-negotiable. I fully agree that it is, of course, the Hungarian Parliament that decides, and the Hungarian Parliament, when they are allowed to meet, can then choose to table a new legislative proposal so that the law that has been adopted is repealed. Yes, yes, but now you are also a member of a club which has a set of statutes, as the Hungarian Parliament or President does not matter who makes the decision: the right of transpersonals to have a legal gender change so that their legal sex matches the gender they have been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191558	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191559	First of all, I would like to be excused from being accused of being sidelined, because I know very well when I am going to reply, and I did not do so here. In fact, I replied so precisely that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen hardly needed to ask his second question. What was the matter is that if Hungary violates an EU directive with the law that has been adopted now, then it is very simple. Then this debate in the Folketing just has to stop now, and then Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, led by the government, brought it before the European Court of Justice, after which the Court of Justice will judge and Hungary will rectify the law. That's the way it is. There is no reason why we should have such a parliamentary show process here, if it is that simple, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then it is just that I am sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will manage to bring it before the Court in a different way, and then no one can then question the motives behind the judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191638	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191638-2	Thank you. I wasn't quite sure if Mr. Cole was gonna do it. Morten Messerschmidt felt that there was a general concern about the situation in Hungary. But then I would like to ask whether the attitude of the Danish People's Party has changed. Last time there were elections, the Danish People's Party was out to praise Hungary. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who was rapporteur at the time, said that Viktor Orbán was pointing the way for Europe, and Søren Espersen was saying that there was little concern about developments in Hungary. I agree that we can have a different attitude towards gender, but is there anything in Hungary that also worries the Danish People's Party and where it is believed that it is no longer Orbán that is showing the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191714	I believe that what both the honourable Members and the rapporteur are referring to, and on which I myself will be aiming for our opinion, is, in particular, the good way in which Orbán has protected Europe in the context of the border situation. One might say that there was Orbán a bit avant-garde and took the lead by actually protecting the external border, even though the criticism hacked down on him. So, with regard to the entire migration policy and the way to deal with migration towards Europe, Orbán has been a pioneer, yes. Does this mean that I am in favour of all Orbán's politics? No. Unlike Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen neither speaks I Hungarian nor is an expert in Hungarian matters and is therefore unable to assess everything that is going on in Hungary. The two things that interest me most about Hungary are the annual figures 1683 and 1956. That is where Hungary stands in my historical consciousness. But all the details of the legislation, as Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is in there, I can't be in it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191809	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191810	Mr. Morten Messerschmidt that it is details when Jewish organizations tell about anti-Semitism in Hungary, or is it something that should be taken seriously? I'm in on it, but that's why I guess it's still not details. Nor is it in detail when one can see that freedom of the press is seriously threatened. I guess it's pretty serious stuff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191827	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191829	Absolutely. I totally agree. I didn't mean that stuff, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen mentions details. I mean, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen knows far more detail than I can. And I would just like to hope that all those cases will be brought before the courts, because what is the problem with Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is, of course, that he is doing Orbán a favor, by Orbán, if it is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and his political colleagues, who are to judge him, can then reply that it is just a political judgment. It is much better to have it brought before the courts so that they can assess it independently. That's why we should interrupt this debate. It's a big hand to Orbán.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191902	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528191904	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the colourful speech. I'd like to know if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt does not think that one can discuss in a parliament when part of the community one is in goes in and puts freedom of expression under pressure, as has been done now in Hungary: is it not a political discussion? 'Cause normally I know Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt as one who likes to discuss very broadly, also about democracy and about what one is allowed and not allowed to do, and about what other people must think and do. So why is it that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that it is too wrong for us to have a thorough debate on the developments we see in a country which is a close ally and part of the European Union, which is, after all, a club that we are in and with which we have many common rules when this kind of pressure on fundamental rights occurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192004	Well, there are several objections. Firstly, I find it strange that Parliament as an institution should have a detailed view of what is going on in all the other EU countries. I think it must be the case that the case is dealt with one by one, i.e. that I accuse Mr. Nordqvist for something, and then Mr. Nordqvist defend it. And it may well be that there are 10 or 20 things to be accused of, but that is the way it is normally done in a constitutional state, and not that you simply throw out some claims and, by the way, do not invite anyone in to defend yourself and then give a verdict, and that is something about Denmark having to punish Hungary now. Because as I mentioned to Mr. Aslan Rasmussen in the past, therefore, gives the one you want to punish a fantastic argument, namely to say that it is just a political judgment. So it is much better to bring it before the courts, and I know that Hungary has, in this way, addressed every time a judgment has been handed down before the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192102	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192103	But I'm just gonna have to ask sir. Morten Messerschmidt: Where is that verdict being handed down? We have a discussion on some principles on which our community, the European Union, is based. In the proposal for adoption I see no judgment against anyone, I see a criticism, and then I see that we have to work to ensure that there are principles for how to act when there are breaches of fundamental rights and so on. So where is it that the sentence is in a political debate? I guess that's why we're in a parliament, I guess it's to discuss politics, and that's what this is all about. That's politics, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192142	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192143	Well, the verdict is that, sir. Jørgensen mentioned that Hungary would be penalised by the Structural Funds. I think so, at least, sir. Nordqvist's new party has been out at the Presidency level with a report on that, and that is what the sanction is about. I just think you'd be much stronger if you got a court to pass that judgment. Of course we can discuss all sorts of things. I mean, I can call a question debate when we meet again after the summer break, where we have to discuss the internal situation in 26 other EU countries. Well, it's gonna be exciting to hear how much sir. Nordqvist can equilibrate over, what should we say, the Maltese relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192217	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192219	That was an incredible exaltation of the European Union, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is working on it. I mean, it's amazing. The Hungarian people can decide exactly what they want. The Hungarian Government can do whatever it wants. The only thing they cannot do is to decide that they should be members of the European Union. Because being a member of the European Union is not a democratic right. Who is a member of the European Union, and who is not a member of the European Union, does the EU decide for itself? We decide that we will be a member of the European Union, the European Union decides whether or not we can be a member. And that is what is ultimately being done under Article 7. Where does Article 7 say anything about courts? After all, it is a purely political balance that is in Article 7 of whether a country meets certain values and otherwise, in accordance with a particular procedure, it can be excluded. It doesn't say anything about courts. The EU is a political association which makes political decisions, just like the Danish People's Party when calling Vistisen for an interview. It is a political organisation and no courts are needed. Why do we have to have this talk about courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192333	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192334	Because, on the basis of a democratic rule of law, I believe that it is best to pass judgments in courts. Of course, it is not quite the same in a political party, but the European Union is not a political party. After all, it is an institution of cooperation between countries that has a court of law. Now I cannot memorize Article 7, but I think it is the Council that has the power to start the process. And end it, that's absolutely right. But it is not, for example. The European Parliament, and some of this debate has, of course, run very hard in the European Parliament, where I have made the very same criticism. However, I believe that what should be built on in the Council are the judgments. In other words, the judgments handed down in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192424	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192425	I think sir... Morten Messerschmidt has to reread Article 7, in which the European Parliament is explicitly referred to as some who have to make recommendations. That is because it is a political union, and that is why I am so shocked that someone I thought was a little critical of the European Union can so much elevate the European Union to something completely superb. The European Union is a political organisation that decides who it wants as members, and if a majority in the European Union decides that there are some that they do not want as members, because they think that their policy runs counter to the policy that you want to pursue in the European Union, then you throw them out. It's as simple as that. That is why I think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt should not talk about courts, but just acknowledge that the EU is a political association that decides who they want as members. And the rest of us can do whatever we want. We can, for example. Don't join us and submit to those rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192515	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192516	Well, it may be that I have expressed myself unclearly. What I have said is a criticism of the European Union. I think it's a bad thing. I think it is undemocratic and I think it is contrary to legal guarantees and legal principles that it is other. After all, the Treaty is the European Union. I think sir... Søndergaard and I have fought this fairly intensely together, but what I am correcting is a criticism of the European Union, and that criticism is so completely linked to the criticism I make of the Folketing, or at least those who are behind this proposal for adoption. In my optics, as I understand and understand a society of law, a democracy, we should not pass judgment in parliaments. You have to do that in the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192557	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Messerschmidt. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192603	Thank you. It is incredibly positive to engage in a discussion and discussion on personal freedom and legal certainty, but it is all the more serious when it comes to Hungary and Poland. Since Viktor Orbán's party Fidesz obtained an absolute majority in the elections in Hungary in 2010, there has been a significant reduction in freedoms and legal certainty in Hungary. The independence of judges has been compromised by political appointments and by the introduction of the right of the Minister of Justice to dismiss judges. The Constitution has de facto been repealed because a two-thirds majority without any other consultation and with today's notice can be amended in the Constitution. Governmentual oligarchs have been awarded large public invitations to tender and, for money, have bought up virtually all important audiovisual media and converted them into government propaganda machines. Universities and cultural institutions are subject to political control and with severe sanctions. It's been forbidden to be homeless. The suppression of sexual minorities is increasingly taking place through family policy measures. And there is plenty of evidence that the police cannot or will not protect them from attacks by extreme right in particular. The Radical Left rapporteur, Jens Rohde, has been one of the most critical critics of the situation in Hungary and Poland throughout the European Parliament. As a party, we have initiated numerous resolutions, debates and dialogues with both the Polish and Hungarian Governments. Over the years, we have tried to create a much more robust system in Europe that can ensure respect for people's rights and respect for the Copenhagen criteria. We have criticised the Member States for being too handy in addressing the problems in the Council and we have been fighting for years for a new treaty to make the so-called Article 7 of the Treaty operational. It is it that allows a country to be deprived of its right to vote, but also gives its citizens a genuine constitutional court that can guarantee their rights wherever they live or reside in the European Union. We welcome the fact that, in the context of negotiations on the EU budget, the government attaches importance to compliance with the rule of law as a condition for receiving EU funds, but would like us to have more and stronger instruments that we can do something about. If we, within the European Union, are unable to protect individuals from abuses by governments and states, our voice in the great world becomes weak. The European Union has been marred by many crises since 2009, but the most serious is probably the value crisis that developments in Hungary and Poland have revealed to us. We need to take care of it and solve it. Here the law, aid packages and other economic instruments cannot help us. Only our own values and the rule of law can do so, and we must insist on them. We support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528192957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we can go further. Now it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193006	Thank you and thank you for presenting the question. I would like to start by saying that discrimination is not a new phenomenon in Hungary and I do not think that we need to go back to the 1930s and fascism-friendly regimes to find examples. For decades we have seen examples of discrimination against Roma, and we have seen hateful attacks on asylum seekers, lgbti+ people and Jews; a violent anti-Jewish campaign has been carried out in Hungary, also supported by the Prime Minister. The decisive turn came when we got a government in Hungary that has actively promoted this discrimination. Because there is a difference between whether there is discrimination in a country and having a government that goes against it or, for that matter, that there is murder in a country and that you have a government that goes against it or whether you have a government that supports it. There's the law against gender change just the latest example. As Amnesty International in Hungary put it: "It not only exposes people to further discrimination, but also reinforces an already intolerant and hostile environment facing the LGBTI community. Not only that, because there are also undemocratic changes to laws and regulations that make it more difficult for an opposition to win the majority and take over government. The highlight was the law on emergency justice, which gave Prime Minister Viktor Orbán virtually unlimited power and the right to decide for himself when to end it. After all, there is nothing wrong with a parliament giving special powers to a government in a particular situation if it also has the opportunity to withdraw them again. Now it is reported that Orbán will remove this law on June 20th. Some people use it as proof that he's not so bad, but in reality it's just the other way around. Democracy comes from the people and must never be given to the people by a higher power, be it God or Orbán. I have to say that I personally often disagree very much with Professor Marlene Wind on EU matters; in fact, I very rarely agree with her, but I completely agreed when she said to Politiken a few days ago, and I quote: 'What we see in Hungary is so serious that we cannot sit and watch passively. This has been going on for so long now, and there have been so many warnings, so much dialogue, so many cases of infringement of the Treaties and raised fingers of European leaders without any action being taken. That's right. Our proposal for adoption today also shows that something needs to be done. Here, of course, we have a wording which states that we call on the government to take the lead in ensuring that the fundamental values and democratic principles of the European Union are maintained and that all means within the framework of EU law are used to prevent and combat discrimination. Fine, brilliant. But what are the means of EU law? That is where we will have to go if we take this discussion seriously... to discuss Article 7, namely Article 7, which is a purely political paragraph and which, for example, is on the initiative of the European Parliament. The European Parliament or others allow the Council to take a decision to deprive a country of its rights. Unfortunately, however, it is designed in such a way that it requires unanimity. In fact, it might be thought immediately that by means of a unanimous vote those who have to be thrown out should also be in agreement. But now it is the case in the European Union that nothing in the European Union is as it would appear. So when you have a paragraph 7, which says 'unanimity', it obviously refers to Rule 354, which states that in that vote the country concerned does not have the right to vote. But then there just has to be another country that's in it. And we are in the situation where there are two countries with which there are problems, namely Poland and Hungary. In other words, the greater the problem in terms of respect for what a majority in the European Union considers to be the basis of value for the European Union, the less chance there is of doing something effective about it. We have to think about that. You have to discuss that. And that raises the question of an amendment to Article 7, otherwise we can at least risk being able to keep talking for a very long time without really being able to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193503	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193506	Thank you. I fully agree that Article 7 contains the problem that Poland can cover up Hungary and Hungary can cover up Poland. I would also like to thank you for an excellent speech. Then I just have to ask the Enhedslisten whether this is not an example of the fact that there is also something good about the European Union, because if we did not have the European Union and if Hungary was not a member of the European Union, then we did not have any means of power to help, for example, in guaranteeing the rights of trans-personals in Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193542	Yeah, that's the question, isn't it? Because I would like to say that it is very little that the European Union has actually managed to achieve in relation to Hungary and Poland. And I do not believe there to be good statements, but actually to change anything. There is a certain right on the part of some of the countries, Poland and Hungary, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we can point to other countries and say: 'Well, the European Union is not doing anything'. Well, yeah, they're criticizing it, but it's not serious anyway. So we have to say that, if the European Union were to function in a completely different way, it might be that it would be a force, but so far it has not proved to be a force. And that brings me to my conclusion: what has to change the situation in Hungary and Poland in the end is the Hungarian people and the Polish people. So, whether you are a member of the European Union or not, international solidarity with the people is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193651	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193653	Well, we agree that miracles have not been accomplished. And we also agree that the opposition must, of course, come first from the Hungarian people themselves, just as there has been an earlier rebellion against Soviet communism. So we are in agreement on that. However, you have some means of power that you would not have had. And then we can agree that those means of power are probably not enough, but there are some means of power. Let us take South Africa and the apartheid regime, because there was nothing but trade boycotts and so on, and it did succeed, but it took a very, very long time. So, after all, there is something good about the European Union: some fundamental rights, which I assume the Enhedslisten agrees with, are some good rights and opportunities to at least try to...
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193740	Yes, please! The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193741	Well, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, I do not want to be put in a situation where I say that everything that comes from the European Union and everything that is around the European Union is bad and that there is nothing good. In other words, I do not want to be put in that situation, because that is neither what we mean nor what we practice. We will, of course, support it if the European Union adopts some things that are moving in a positive direction. Then we think that there are some other negative things about the European Union that weigh more heavily on us than the positive things, and that is, of course, a balance. But the short of the long one is that, of course, there are good things in the European Union, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193814	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528193822	Thank you. I understand the question No. 59 to the effect that the specific legislation adopted by Hungary to counter covid-19 is at the heart. In other words, it is the interaction of this law with fundamental rights in the European Union that is being highlighted in the question. I have tried to read the Hungarian legislation in translated form and have tried to give me an overview of the European Union's position on legislation. Neither the European Commission nor the European Court of Justice seem to have made the Hungarian law the subject of major debates or actions. The Czech EU Commissioner has said on several occasions that Hungarian law is not contrary to EU law. However, the latest announcement from Hungary is that the law will be removed on 20 June. This means that Hungary will remove its Corona legislation long before Denmark. The law does not seem to give in any way the opportunity to govern per se. decree infinitely in any jurisdiction. It must be a law which can demonstrate that the law helps to remedy the covid-19. You can, for example. not only raise the retirement age to 85 years, unless it can be demonstrated that it will help to reduce the epidemic. The EU chamber which seems to have a problem with Hungary is the European Parliament. The European Parliament is a political institution which cannot or should not decide on the legal arrangements of individual countries. So there's a problem with law? I do not think that can be used simply. It is clear from Section 5 of the Act that the Hungarian Constitutional Court must operate during the epidemic. There is therefore a judicial review of whether the decree law goes beyond what the law says. I am not aware of any information that the Court is not carrying out this task. As far as I read the same legislation, decrees can only be issued if, due to the covid-19 practically, the parliament cannot be brought together and only for so long. That is why I should like to ask you a question. 59 that today's debate could be further qualified for the benefit of the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194035	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194048	Thank you. Hungarian politics is not an issue that I have so much knowledge that it justifies strong opinions. But I can google myself to the fact that Viktor Orbán's party, Fidesz, in the 2018 elections got almost 50 percent. of the votes. Within the framework of a democracy, it must mean that Orbán and his party have done something right, at least if you ask half the voters in Hungary. So it's a support for a party you can only dream of in Denmark today. I can also read out that we have to go back to the interwar period to find a backup similar to this country. During the parliamentary elections in 1935, the Social Democratic Party under the leadership of Thorvald Stauning received about 46 per cent. of the votes. It also makes me think that this discussion is a difficult one, quite frankly and not to make unnecessary political and polemical markings. Around Europe, there have been many governments which have pursued a policy that I personally did not like. I was never a huge fan of Silvio Berlusconi, who was Trump before Trump. But like Viktor Orbán, Berlusconi was elected according to all the rules of art, and then it becomes a little strange to pronounce a criticism. Of course you can have your freedom of expression, you are allowed to mean everything but as a member of the Danish Parliament do I have to work to overrule a democratic election in another country? It has a slightly different weight when I'm elected and of course it has for all of us who have been elected if we say now that we will work to overrule the people of a friendly country. I think I would almost describe that as a dangerous precedent. Because if we set a precedent for the parliaments of the European Union to overrule the electoral population of other EU countries, we have set a principle that there is a majority in the European Union that can decide that a political majority in one Member State is wrong and should therefore be overruled, and that is surely a rather unhealthy principle in principle. I therefore find it really difficult to relate politically to politics in other countries where, as a Danish politician, there are no special powers. It is of course exciting to take the debate, but I do not really know what the conclusion can be. We do not have a proposal for adoption that is in the eye either, so I cannot tell you what we are going to vote for, but we will study what is on the market of decisions and then we will make our choice before the vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194414	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194417	Of course, we need to be very careful when we enter the European Union and we want to sanction another country for adopting legislation that we do not like. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The countries have self-determination and so on. That is also what we hear from various dictatorships when they are criticized by China, Saudi Arabia and others, that is to say that this is our internal affairs and that you should not interfere with that. But now there is the difference between Hungary and all sorts of other countries that Hungary is a member of the European Union. And in the European Union there are some fundamental rights to which we must live up to, and Hungary does not. That is why the European Union says that they should. So it's not really that much anymore. That is why the question is: does the Liberal Alliance want to be with other liberals who are fighting for personal freedom, including the right to change genders and, of course, to be recognised by the state after a gender change?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194518	After all, I spent a very large part of the previous parliamentary term as rapporteur for foreign policy, and I was able at least to learn that in foreign policy we must also be together with representatives of countries and regimes that are not very much liked. It's part of the game's rules. I think that if I were better at Hungarian and had more understanding of it, I would not like the Fidesz party very much either. But I actually think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt raises a good debate when he says: shall we then have a political process, or shall we have something more like a fair trial if it should get there? Otherwise, it is the Danish Parliament, in the end, who is working for what should we say, to overrule the people of Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194611	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194612	It's hard, and sir. Henrik Dahl escaped the question. Because it's about us being a member of the same club, and that club has some statutes. One of the statutes is that minorities should not be suppressed, and Hungary does. You don't have to know Hungarian to see that. One of the most recent events is a clear suppression of the rights of transsexuals to recognize the sex change they have undergone physically, that is to say to have it implemented legally. It is not really difficult and complicated. So what this is all about is that, with the statutes in our hands, we should try to force Hungary to protect the transparency of the country, or we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194659	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194700	For many years now, through multilateral cooperation, we have set up a number of institutions to address or condemn such things. I think it is an unsympathetic law, but I also believe that there must be some institutions whose task it is to look at, for example. conventions that are being broken. This is certainly not an unknown problem for us here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194725	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194725-2	Thank you. I really find it interesting to hear how both the Danish People's Party and now the Liberal Alliance almost question the legitimacy of discussing this. And now I do not know where the Liberal Alliance stands today in relation to the European Union; in other words, the European Union is, after all, a community in which we have decided on common rules of the game; we also have a political community; we have a parliament together. We have a number of things together and, of course, we will also go in and discuss these things, including political ones. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is entirely legitimate for us to go in and have a discussion when we see a country that is part of our close community in the European Union, to do something that goes beyond minorities that we have actually chosen to protect, so that we have the discussion about it and express a criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194821-2	Yes, of course it is legitimate for us to discuss anything here in the Folketing. And, of course, we can also express our criticism. But I also think we should take ourselves seriously and say that criticism of a legally elected government is also a criticism of the democratic institutions in that country and the majority who elected the government. There I think you owe it to yourself to take it seriously. It must always be imagined that the principles advocated fall into the hands of some people who really do not like them, because there can also be some, as I know, religious orthodox people around Europe who think that we have a completely godless sexual morality and that it must be rolled back or something. And I would very much like to see some people sitting in other countries having an opinion on what could have consequences in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194912	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194913	Well, that's one of us. Is today discussing, for example, attacks on freedom of expression • can one express one's criticism of a government? We're talking about the right to privacy, that is to be who you are. How can it be something to be careful about standing up for? I really thought that was the core values of the Liberal Alliance, that is to say that we are standing up for each of us having the right to be who we are. This is not just something that we have just decided with our right hand. It is part of the fundamental charters of the European Union, for the community of which Hungary has also chosen to be a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194949	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528194950	Well, in the area where the Folketing has jurisdiction, we certainly work for the right to be who you are. However, the discussion that I am trying to raise without much success is, of course, a discussion that is about ignoring democracy in another country and saying that the citizens of another country have voted incorrectly. And I think that should be considered a little more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195015	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195017	Thank you. I did not quite understand how much the rapporteur thinks it is necessary to interfere in other countries, but as I remember, the rapporteur has quite often interfered in what is happening in Sweden in the field of integration at the latest a few hours ago. Often it is in the form of very well written speeches on the discussion pages, and often I also agree with many of the rapporteur's analyses of it. But it is also a very large and broad voice support in Sweden for the integration policy being pursued. It is not to be polemical, but I think there is also a lot of support for Orbán in Hungary. Has the rapporteur also Googled out some of the major problems of freedom of expression in Hungary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195057	Yes, I have and, as I said, I certainly would not vote for Victor Orbán and his party, because they are pursuing a policy that I certainly do not agree with. What I was trying to express in my reply to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, was that of course all citizens of this country, including the members of parliament, are entitled to think what they want, and also about the conditions in Sweden or Hungary. However, I also think that when we stand here in the finest forum in the country and discuss and we can make laws that have major implications for the citizens of Denmark we must ask whether it is a good idea to stand and override a majority of the population in another country and say that we want to set an active process in motion, not just to say our opinion, but to have physical consequences. I am not sure that I think it is a good idea to overrule elections in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195154	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195158	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that there are common rules of the game in the European Union to which we have to live up to. And it is clear that if freedom of expression is pressured in this way, or if there are undemocratic legislative measures, then you have to respond to it when you are part of a community, regardless of what your attitude is to the European Union in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195216	Yeah, but what I was trying to say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, was that it could get there, but then we have some institutional framework to do something like that. And if that is what you want, then I think you should start the institutional machinery, because then things go by the book, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195238	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195240	Yes, I'm simply trying to understand Mr. Henrik Dahl's point of view. Because it seems that when you are in the European Union, you cannot be excluded. Why, then, can countries really be prevented from entering the European Union? So why should Turkey not be allowed to join the European Union? I mean, they also have a president who didn't get 50 percent, but if we count the support parties, he has a solid majority in the parliament, so why shouldn't he also be allowed in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195319	I don't have such well-developed opinions on this subject that I could stand by and write a book about it or something I also have to try something like that. There is an institutional possibility of getting rid of a country that behaves sensibly, and I have said to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and to Mr. Jørgensen. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, if that is what you want, then I think you should put the institutional apparatus in play, because then there is like a set of rules that things run by. And if so, then I would urge a majority in the Folketing to put the institutional apparatus in play. However, I also think that we can discuss the issue of ignoring the electorate in other countries, because it is in any case a relevant issue. As I said, there have also been other governments in other countries of the European Union, which were very provocative in my ideals; I mentioned, for example. Silvio Berlusconi.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195423	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195424	Yeah, but then let's think together. Let us now imagine that before Erdogan had actually succeeded in entering the European Union under the former regime in Turkey, and then Erdogan had been democratically elected with all the progress that has then been made. So, because you let them in once, should you say that you can't throw them out? No, that's where I understand that sir. Henrik Dahl says: Well, then we must go the institutional path. But is Mr. Henrik Dahl does not agree that then the institutional path must also be possible, and that means that we must then amend Article 7 so that a single country cannot really block the fact that, for example, we do not have a single country. a country like Turkey, if they had been a member, could be evicted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195512	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195512-2	The formalities here know Mr. Søren Søndergaard no doubt better than I do myself. But I could understand the very interesting conversation with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that two countries can help each other never to be thrown out, and that is of course something to be aware of. But at the heart of what I might even sense we agree on is that the institutional path is the right one, because there are also some considerations to take into account democracy in individual countries and that it should be allowed to unfold.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195548	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195550	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is watching and that makes all the legislative, executive and judicial powers three key elements. In Poland and Hungary, significant considerations have already begun in relation to the government's decision on who should be judges and under what conditions they should be employed. Does the rapporteur think this is a correct solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195618	After all, we also have a government body that decides who will be judges in Denmark, so we must look at ourselves a little in the mirror, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195631	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195632	I must admit that I simply did not hear what was said. It seemed very unclear. But I hope that the conclusion is that we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195646	But judges in Denmark are not elected by direct universal suffrage. In other words, they are, in effect, appointed by a body which the government ultimately has control of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195655	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195657	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I noted that the rapporteur spoke of his being a foreign rapporteur. And then I was a little surprised if the rapporteur thinks that EU policy is the same as foreign policy, and it is in fact also a curious question. I would also like to ask whether the rapporteur does not think that EU policy is a community with common ground rules that must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195738	Formally, EU policy is foreign policy, and foreign policy is conducted by the government and not by the Folketing. That is why we have this very special structure with the European Committee, which is a special structure which has evolved from the 1970s, when it was called the Market Committee, and then it has changed. But it is a very special construction in which the Folketing authorizes the government to conduct the foreign policy to be conducted by the government, according to the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195806	Then we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528195815	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for a good and important debate. Thank you to the parties, thank you to the rapporteurs. I think we have got around well, it has to be said, our democratic principles and our common values. I think we agree on the important role that the principles play in any democratic society and how crucial it is that they be respected. I would also like to say here that this is particularly true in a country that has the privilege of being a member of the European Community, as several have said. No one questions that. But what is at stake is which we must therefore help them back on the democratic track. We must help them to ensure that all citizens and companies located in Hungary, whether Hungarian or Danish, can freely unfold and that they can be confident that their rights are respected and enforceable in independent courts. In short, we must work to ensure that EU cooperation continues to work. After all, in Denmark we take responsibility and say no when our fundamental values and principles are under threat. We stand guard over the 1993 Copenhagen criteria, as we remember. When we held the Presidency of the European Union, they formed the basis for historical reunification based on clear principles: the rule of law, democracy, respect for minority rights, functioning market economies. It's important. Together with our like-minded people, both in the European Union, in the Council of Europe and in the Nordic countries, we must continue to do so. I would also like to say about the debate that I think something is being overlooked. After all, the European Union is a special community, and I believe that we need to make it clear. And being a member then gives special privileges and opportunities. Rights and obligations go hand in hand. This is pretty important to understand. Therefore, we can and must also make great demands on each other. If democracy is challenged in a Member State of the European Union, then of course it is primarily a problem for that country and its citizens, we are in agreement on that, but it is also a problem for the European Union and it is not something we can just ignore. We are bound together because we have chosen to be together in this, and we have chosen to be a member of the European Union as a country, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard, I think, at some point referred to. So the European Union is founded on democratic principles and values. If they are not respected, the cohesion and functioning of the European Union will be affected. Democratic principles are also part of the European Union's identity, and in many ways this helps to define what it means to be European, and it helps to give us credibility on the international stage. And I just want to say that we are living in a world in which fundamental values and rights and freedoms and freedom of expression and human rights are seriously under pressure. I think it is very important that we ourselves in Europe should stand up both in Europe and globally for the values on which we build our own cooperation. I would like to make one comment on the discussion that has taken place. It can be said that the negative measures for people with disabilities break Article 33, i.e. legal obligations, or they are simply inconsistent with Danish values. There's been a discussion about this. It can be said that the international conventions state that all people are born free and equal with dignity and rights. This also applies, of course, to people belonging to minorities such as IGBTI people. And it also follows from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, that a change in the law which makes it legally impossible to change gender is contrary to the right to privacy. In other words, this is a potential violation of human rights as a result of the new law in Hungary. In addition, it is, of course, also a breach of the values that Denmark promotes internationally. We want to stand by that. We attach great importance to human rights and freedom, and Denmark, together with like-minded countries, will take the lead in the fight for lgbti rights and conditions, and we will of course continue to do so. And we will say no when we see trends going in the opposite direction. I am not going to prolong the debate further here, but I would just like to thank you once again for your broad support. I think it is very important and good that the Folketing, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned, sends a clear signal that we stand up for our values and rights, and that we do so by a broad majority here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200322	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200325	Thank you. It is actually because I think it has been a little interesting with this discussion that has been going on today, i.e. whether one could even take up such a discussion in the Folketing, if it was quite, quite wrong. I would really like to hear the Foreign Minister's opinion on whether it is not precisely with the Community that we have in the European Union that we should go in and discuss, precisely when it is difficult and other countries go in and challenge the values on which we are based, so that we should also dare to take the political debates and dare to take them both here and with Hungary, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200400	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200401	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Yes, I fully agree with that. Perhaps I should also like to add, as regards the debate that was held with Mr. Henrik Dahl, in relation to this question, that we are in a community based on a common treaty and, incidentally, common legislation, an internal market, and also some different legal certainty for companies and citizens, you can see that when you move around the EU you are bound together. So it is not like comparing with a country outside the European Union, a third country, but we do have something in common, and that is also why it is a little an answer to Mr. Søren Søndergaard has made demands on the candidate countries who want to be members of the European Union. They must live up to, among other things. The Copenhagen criteria and the legislation so that they can be taken into account at all as a member of the European Union. It's because being a member of this community is linked to some special obligations and rights. So yes, I can confirm that I think it is important to understand, and therefore it is also important that a country like Denmark and both the Folketing and the government stand up for these things when they are challenged in our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200509	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Would you like to speak more? - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist to end the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200527	Thank you, and I'll be brief, so I won't keep you in this room too long on this beautiful first real summer night. However, I would just like to thank you very much for the debate and also for the proposal for adoption, which many of us are behind. Because I think it is crucial that we stand up for the values and rights on which we are based in the European Union and, in particular, I also know from the trans-activists I have spoken to in Hungary that it is very, very important for them to hear the support of us here in the Folketing today. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200608	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 2 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200627	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200644	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for not 11:00 now. So for L 198: Denmark, yes, almost the whole world, is in a peculiar situation. A health risk has brought our common habits and habits to a halt. Fortunately, Danish society has responded in time, targeted, professionally well-substantiated and responsible. When society is virtually put to a standstill, unintended events occur. We do not buy in as usual, and that affects industry and employment. The responsibility of society, among other things, has to do with: This led to major help packages for the business community. A total of 400 billion. kr. the government and the majority of the Folketing have put into effect. When the community puts so much money on the line, we have a responsibility to ensure the proper use of these funds. Fortunately, it seems that the vast majority of companies are fulfilling this. Trust is, of course, good, but it is naive not to build control functions. A control measure is an auditor's statement and it covers a large space for the use of the large amount of money. Audits are an essential paper assessment of the company and their use of the aids. The arrangement we are to decide today is very close to practice in everyday life, namely an access for employees or others involved in everyday life in the companies, to contact the Danish Business Authority if they suspect fraud with public funds, and in such a way that they can maintain their anonymity except for selected employees of the Danish Business Authority who have confidentiality when it comes to the name of the contact. Given the extent of society's goodwill towards Danish business, it is reasonable that we seek to protect society from abuse. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200859	There is a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528200901	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to sign for the good cooperation, and I hope I do not say too much, but it is also important that it is something that complements and supports the Danish model and the trust representative system that we already have. I would like to thank the rapporteur personally for that. I have a question with regard to paragraph 22A paragraph. 3. It states that the Danish Business Authority may disclose any information received under the whistleblower scheme. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be open to the fact that in the committee work we will be able to look into how we can protect the employee if we run the risk of finding out who the employee is. Perhaps we can be inspired by the way in which we protect pregnant people, where you cannot be fired, and if it happens anyway, that you are protected by some other labour law measures. Will the rapporteur be open to look at those parts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201005	First, a receipt for the good cooperation. I can only say that this is the other way too. I don't think it's my fault. I think it is for the Minister's benefit that we have a very good working relationship in committee and with the Ministry. Then I would say that we are treading new paths here, and we must of course have thought about this and also have the opportunity to assess whether we are getting to the right place and that it is the right considerations that are being taken into account. And, of course, we have agreed on considerations of anonymity and the fact that it should not risk costing an employee something that thinks of the best interests of society rather than just thinking of the company's possible narrow interests if it were to come into play. So, yes, of course we will be willing to have a dialogue on those matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201056	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and then the Left. Maybe it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, rapporteur. Looks like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201117	Yeah, I'm the one who cancels. So I have been allowed to present the Left's position on the bill we are now debating, which is to establish a whistleblower scheme which will provide the framework for those who commit fraud with the aid packages that we have established in Denmark to be more easily accountable and punished for their crimes. The Corona crisis has led to some quite violent consequences for Danish society, including for Danish business, which is why we have found it necessary to support Danish companies as much as possible to ensure that we stand strong, even after the corona crisis has slipped into our economy and our way of life. And when we jointly choose to make quite large funds available to the companies, we have done so with the belief that the vast majority of the Danish business community are, of course, honourable and have no desire to swindle. However, there are probably some stray vessels out there that might abuse these schemes, and it is therefore important that we have the best opportunities to find them so that they can be held to account. At the request of the Left, the penalties for financial fraud with the aid packages have been significantly tightened. It is, in fact, a quadruple, because it is quite unreasonable when someone tries to abuse the arrangements to enrich themselves at the expense of the Community. The aid packages should not collect dust, and that is why we have made an agreement to speed up the payments, but at the same time we tighten the controls and we increase it with a whistleblower scheme. By protecting those who are shouting about fraud, we are helping to create the framework for security for those who are experiencing criminal dealings with our support crowns. The scheme is simple: the identification of fraud can be carried out digitally and without the callers being turned into parties to the case. No one who intends to do the right thing will subsequently be able to feel the consequences of it. And our efforts in this area are essential if we are to ensure a fair deal with the funds that we, as a society, have made available to the needy Danish companies. On the basis of this, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201336	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201337	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am glad that the Left is helping to back it up if there are stingy vessels, of course they must be stopped. Fortunately, the vast majority of people can find the right way to do it. Unfortunately, we also sometimes see that there are resignations that should not have happened. And that is why I have suffered the same question to the rapporteur on the Left, and even if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is not a business rapporteur, it may be that he can tell whether the Left could be open to look at what we are doing. This is about Article 22a, paragraph 2. 3, which means that the police must make police reports, which the police are already doing now, because the Danish Business Authority has received some inquiries about the other parts where the name of the person concerned may appear. Therefore, I can be concerned that we have not protected the employee well enough and would therefore like one to see that, as in the case of pregnancy, there is a reversal of the burden of proof, so that the company must say that it is some other difficulty in cooperation, that it is for economic reasons and that it has nothing to do with this part. Is the Left open to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201445	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201445-2	Well, I'm a lawyer, but it would have helped if I could have been told what law we're talking about with respect to section 22a, and even then I don't think I could have memorized it, for now to be completely honest. So I simply cannot answer that question. But if I have to try, I would say that, for example, pregnant women are particularly protected against dismissal, and as an employer you must be able to prove that termination has nothing to do with pregnancy. But you can dismiss people, even during a corona crisis, without pointing out that this is due to a fall in turnover. So I do not really see that these two things are comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201531	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201533	Thank you. It is precisely that yes, you can terminate an employee, because it should not be the case that you cannot be fired because you have been the one who has indicated your employer under the whistleblower scheme. And that is precisely why I am thinking that it makes sense to make use of the legislation we know from the protection of pregnant women, so that the employer can demonstrate that it is about a particular reason why you have fired the employee and so that you are not fired because you are the one who has told us that your business has cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201603	Now I think I understand what that means. Thus, if an employee of a company indicates the company by going to the whistleblower scheme, the company is not informed who has notified it. Therefore, the company will not be able to fire some employee because they have used the whistleblower scheme, because the company does not get that knowledge. So I think it's a theoretical problem that's being raised. But I am willing to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201635	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528201647	The legislative proposal we are discussing here is, of course, the implementation of part of the agreement we made last week with the government and, as it were, all the parties of the Folketing, as far as the part that was not implemented through announcements and other initiatives was concerned, but where it was necessary, of course, to make a definite amendment to the law. The draft law ensures, as rapporteurs have already said, that a whistleblower scheme is put in place to ensure that employees who become aware of financial fraud or attempted fraud in connection with the five different aid packages implemented as Corona aid schemes will be subject to the rules contained in it. Another point that lies in the proposal is to ensure that information, confidential information from the White Wash Secretariat can also be passed on to the Danish Business Administration under the stricter conditions and rules which will, of course, continue to exist, on the confidentiality of employees, etc. At the same time, the draft law imposes on employees of the Danish Business Administration the obligation of professional secrecy with regard to information received from the Whitewash Secretariat. All in all, the sensible proposal that we in the Danish People's Party naturally support is that we are part of the agreement. However, we also recognise that, in the context of legal work, we must of course investigate and ensure that the questions raised in relation to particular risks are answered, because in some cases, if the companies are relatively small, it will be quite easy for an employer to be able to track down the employee who has been in charge of informing about suspected irregularities in the company's aid applications. So it has to be that this is a whistleblower system which also, as far as possible, gives the employees who could get into such a squeeze the rights and conditions required. I fully agree that there was this debate earlier between the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and I therefore share the concern expressed by the Enhedslisten in relation to the discussion on the burden of proof. After all, it is a little easier to prove whether a person is pregnant or a little pregnant or very pregnant than it is to be able to prove whether a dismissal is due to a report which is not known whether or not he has actually made it. But the less a company is, the harder it will also be, everything else equal, for an employee to be able, I had almost said hide in the crowd. For if there are only a few particularly trusted financial employees, for example. In the administration office, etc., it will also be harder to hide. But let us make things clear during the committee work. In any case, the Danish People's Party will be involved, and we would like to have answered those questions in order to have a sure hand in doing what we can to protect the employees who will be in a position to get into trouble. They're not gonna get caught anymore by the fact that we're making this law. The smaller ones are caught up in this, because of course it is always voluntary to provide information. You cannot force employees to submit information about their business etc. But all other things being equal, it is important that we examine the legal parts of it precisely to ensure that employees do not get into an unnecessary legal dispute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202036	I have a feeling Victoria Velasquez wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202039	Thank you. I very much agree with the parts that the rapporteur mentions and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. That's why you could be a little bit bold and teasing. On page 12 it says that it has no positive consequences, i.e. economic consequences. In fact, I think it may have, in terms of being able to do so, but that was another thing. In addition to the good arguments put forward by the rapporteur in relation to the fact that it is a small company, I would say that it is generally a very good piece of work and that one is being protected very well, but that there are some cases where the Danish Business Authority has to pass it on, for example. If it's a police case and there's already some police cases going on now. The name of the employee can then appear. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is also taking part in looking at this in relation to these very cases, in other words, in addition to the small business cases, so that we also have the best possible protection for employees in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202131	We clearly believe that the employees who get into trouble are those whom the companies, in other words their managers and their owners, are giving some tasks that make them into such a kind of loyalty conflict. If they assume that something is at odds with the law or if it is definitely far beyond the edge, then it is important that you have some legal concepts that ensure good legal certainty for the said employees. And, of course, we need to have these points clarified in the course of the legislative proposal's consideration here, primarily between the first and second readings. And that is also why I said in my rapporteur's speech that we want to help ensure that those questions are asked so that we are on as good and secure a basis as possible. We also recognise that we cannot do that one hundred per cent; we cannot do that because it is very difficult to legislate on. Firstly, it is voluntary whether people will go out at all and state their employer, and secondly, in many cases it will also be relatively easy for employers to locate who has done this fantastic work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202236	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby on the island and goes on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202246	Thank you. I am also pleased with the agreement that we had made here last week. I am glad that we will have the opportunity to pay out some money, at least a little faster, to some of the many companies that need help right now, because this is an extraordinary situation. At the same time, however, I am also very pleased that, alongside it, we have made an agreement here on a whistleblower scheme, because it is just important that we create the best opportunities to report possible cheating with these aid packages. In fact, in order that we can continue to support our aid packages for business, I also believe that it is quite fundamental that we also know that there is as good a control over it as possible, that is to say that our tax dollars are also going to those who actually need them. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202352	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Theresa Berg Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202402	Thank you. We finally came on. L 198 is a proposal to amend the law on business promotion more specifically: a whistleblower scheme. Another agreement is in the field of business, which contributes to the rapid and secure payment of the compensation arrangements that have been made. It is still about holding hands under our businesses. It is particularly important for SF that we get a whistleblower scheme. A scheme like this will help us prevent cheating and deception for the community's money. It is important for the SF that the citizens or the employee have a place to approach when and if you become aware of cheating with the aid packages. I have received a number of requests of a different nature about cheating and questions about the aid packages, and that is something we must put to the test. If you, as an employee, shop steward, union and the like, find that your employer is in the process of circumventing the rules, or if you are even ordered to cheat, you are faced with a huge dilemma where you can fear the consequences for yourself. That's why we have to make this arrangement. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202527	I am pleased that we have been able to agree on an agreement on a whistleblower scheme, whereby employees can report confidentially if their employers are fraudulent of wage compensation or the other aid packages. In the Enhedslisten we have fought for a whistleblower scheme because with this agreement we create a security for all people on wage compensation. They are assured that, if their employer asks them to come to work in breach of the rules, they have a place to go, which is confidential and safe. This also applies to the employees who learn that their company will cheat with other aid packages. I have received messages from people who have been asked to do work while their workplace continues to receive compensation for wages, and this puts an employee in a really unpleasant situation. Only yesterday I received another request, and here it was a person who is not even working at the workplace anymore, but who suddenly saw in his e-Boks that the company was still seeking compensation for wages on behalf of the person. The person thought it was a mistake and approached the employer and former colleagues and then found out that it was on purpose and that in fact there were others other than the person himself who had experienced the same. So now the employees get a safe and confidential place to go where they can tell about employers' violations of law without fear of losing their jobs or getting stuck. I am particularly pleased that one's shop steward is also involved in the solution, so that the whistleblower scheme will be a supplement and not competing with the schemes we have in many jobs • it will complement and support the Danish model. Salary compensation is a very good solution. Together, we are helping companies affected by the Corona crisis in the hope of limiting layoffs. It is therefore also deeply regrettable that a few greedy employers are taking advantage of this helping hand to secure cheap labour, and I hope that this agreement will act as a deterrent to the few stumbled vessels that are both for the sake of their employees and us as communities that pay for the aid packages, but also for the sake of the many good companies that are actually doing the right thing. So I would like to thank you very much for helping to succeed, and I would also like to pay tribute to the talented employees of the Ministry of Business and the Danish Business Authority who have provided good and serious solutions to what we should do about this problem in a very short time and in a very good way. It gives me peace of mind, and now I hope that I can have complete peace of mind, and that we succeed with one last thing... some of you in this room might be able to guess what it's all about. That is, of course, that in section 22a paragraph. 3 states that the Danish Business Administration can pass on all information received under the whistleblower scheme, and that makes sense if, for example, there is no information available. to set up a police case or the like. However, I may be afraid that if it is a small company you can see through what it is for an employee it is about, or if the name is going to appear later you can be fired as an employee because you have done the right thing. That is why I hope that we can secure the employee all the way in relation to it, and there I hope that all parties will take part in the work of the committee so that we can have the best protection for the employee. I look forward to being able to vote in favour of this bill in the Enhedslisten and make it work and for further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202905	Thanks for the speech. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528202916	Thank you for the floor. It's been a nice long night. Of course, it is a very great wish of Conservatives that the aid packages already agreed will actually come out to the companies in time. And now companies have to pay wages, rents and so on again. The first has already been speeded up, i.e. the compensation for wages. And last week we got pressured on the accelerator in relation to the payment of compensation for the fixed expenses, where exactly rent is one of the very big items, so one of those items that can mean whether a company and its employees are going through the crisis or not. The only place we want to put our foot on the brake is in relation to possible cheating with the aid packages. We cannot and will not accept this and have therefore wanted to put experts and users to hack the help packages so that we can put up safeguards against both intentional and accidental cheating. Because there is no doubt that when we increase the speed of setting up fast-tracks and so-called immediate treatments, which really cover up skipping the ordinary and perhaps a little heavy application, which is, of course, replaced by ex post controls, yes, then the risk of cheating increases with the common fund. Therefore, we have also made an agreement on a whistleblower scheme, which is exclusively linked to the aid packages and which is not completely anonymous, because it must be possible for the Danish Business Authority to check and check and find out what turns upside down in a case. The Whistleblower scheme must not develop into a sticking line where anyone with an evil whim can abuse confidence. This kind of belly must be eliminated, and we believe that the proposal has succeeded. Let us move on and focus on phasing out aid packages, reopening and recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203051	Thank you. I cannot help but say to the business rapporteurs, who feel a little over the fact that it is late in the evening: we are some who have been sitting here also at 8 a.m. 4 in the morning, so it can be. Bring it on, President!). Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203108	Well, if you've been sitting here till 8:00. Four, I recommend you go home for Christ's sake. It's a long time to sit here. The meeting was in progress). Well, the meeting was in progress. Then I can see it's hard. In New Citizens, we can also support this. Of course, as I hear from Enhedslisten, there may be a concern about this about whether there is a protection for them, even if it turns into a police case. So let's take a look at it. I am sure that is not the intention. It is clear that if you go into a whistleblower scheme to report something illegal, you do so in order to preserve your anonymity, otherwise you could report it openly. If the whole purpose is to report something anonymous and then cannot remain anonymous if it moves forward, then there is basically a problem there. Of course, we have to look into this in the committee work if there is. Then I would also like to see us delve into this committee's work if there is something going on within the Danish Business Administration itself in connection with the work on these aid packages. To be honest, 400 people have been employed who may not have had the longest interview and anything else. There may also be some who are being pressured. We have seen in other areas that there may be some employees being pressured by companies or perhaps being promised something. That's a lot of billions we're talking about. There may be some employees who may be promised that there will be a split in the gate or something if you get this application to go further quickly. So, is one aware of that part too, i.e. that there may also be an opportunity for this to happen to employees? It is not because you have to have a snitch culture or keep an eye on each other, but there are many new employees, and there may be some who are tempted there. Because it's a lot of money you work with. And maybe the normal control bodies that will be in Business Administration to secure these things, maybe not one hundred percent in place. It is clear that they cannot be so fast either. Anyway, we just need to focus on that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203313	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Henrik Dahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203320	Thank you for the floor. I might just as well say to Mrs Victoria Velasquez that I have absolutely no idea what it says in paragraph 22 (a). 3, so it will be impossible for me to answer any questions about it. And why haven't I? I do not have that because I am a substitute for our normal rapporteur, and although I tend to be quick to understand what the legislative proposals are about, it is impossible when the negotiations go as fast as they do this evening. What I have been asked to say for our normal rapporteur is that we think this is a very sensible legislative proposal which we would like to support when we come to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528203420	I would also like to start by thanking not only for the remarks made by the rapporteurs, but also for the recognition of employees in the Ministry of Industry, which I can confirm not only in this case, but also in this case, working 24 hours a day in order to make things work. That is why I would just like to thank you for those comments. I know that means a lot. And thank you for our cooperation in the business group. We can also agree on other things than not being here so late, namely on really good political initiatives, and fortunately things succeed in very good and good understanding with each other. So for the bill here: The payments from our joint corona help packages to business are being rolled out in earnest these days. Thousands of companies have sought and received a total of billions of dollars from the relief packages... packages to help needy companies and their employees in full through the corona crisis. It is my very clear impression that companies are largely responsible and use the aid packages in the way they are intended. At the same time, we are also aware that there are companies that may be tempted to defraud the compensation schemes, and we will, of course, take action against these companies. The aim of the bill we are discussing here is, firstly, to establish the whistleblower scheme, which aims both to prevent and detect fraud with the five compensation schemes set up by the Danish Business Authority as a result of the covid-19 crisis. Secondly, the proposal ensures that it is possible for the Whitewash Secretariat to send notifications of possible fraud involving the five compensation schemes to the Danish Business Administration without the person or company to which the notification relates knowing who has reported them. With the bill, we will create greater security for those citizens who have knowledge or suspicion of fraud with the five compensation schemes, but who are concerned about the consequences of sharing their knowledge with the authorities. I think it is quite natural that, as an employee, we should fear, for example. the consequences of reporting your employer to cheat on the scales, and the Danish Business Authority has already received many citizens' requests for fraud with the compensation schemes, but it must also note that some of them are getting cold feet, as it were, because the Board cannot promise them anonymity in the course of the inquiry they have made. Therefore, the need to establish a real whistleblower system there. The scheme shall allow the name of the notifier to be kept secret from the public and from the person to whom the notification relates. However, the notifier will not be completely anonymous. It is of course important for the Danish Business Authority to know the identity of the notifier, because it allows the board to follow up on the request. It is important that the Board can contact the citizen with clear questions about the notification submitted, and it is also easier for the Danish Business Authority to assess the credibility of a review, which a citizen also stands by personally. If the scheme was completely anonymous, some might, unfortunately, be tempted to make false notifications, for example. to bother a competing company. A whistleblower scheme, which protects the identity of the notifier, violates the general principle of openness in the administration, and we therefore propose from the government's side in the bill here and also after a discussion between the parties that the scheme is explicitly limited to inquiries concerning the business-oriented compensation schemes, which are thus administered by the Danish Business Authority. In this context, the Danish Business Administration will also be able to reject notifications which do not relate to these schemes. With the bill, the government will also enable the Whitewash Secretariat to disclose in confidence important information to the Danish Business Authority, which is relevant to the Danish Business Authority's control of payments from the covid-19 compensation schemes. This shall be done without the notified undertaking or person or others being able to know who informed the authorities. The draft law therefore imposes an explicit obligation of professional secrecy on employees of the Danish Business Administration for information received from the Whitewash Secretariat for this purpose. It is important for the Danish Business Authority's control of the compensation schemes that the Danish Agency can obtain information from the Whitewash Secretariat about suspicious behaviour and possible fraud with the compensation schemes, and it is important that the surrender of this information is done in such a way that they do not become publicly known. The introduction of professional secrecy is therefore appropriate in order to protect bankers and others who have reported information to the White Wash Secretariat against potential reprisals from the person they have reported. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for the government that we have set up some compensation schemes which, in fact, as the radical rapporteur also stressed, have made possible the rapid payment of compensation to needy companies. Speed means something in this context. However, such compensation schemes also go hand in hand with the establishment of the necessary control mechanism to ensure that the money goes to the right purpose and that fraud with the funds is combated. I believe that, with the arrangement we have proposed here, we have found the right balance between the need to curb fraud with the compensation mechanisms and to ensure sound information about the cases. And with the special confidentiality clause for the employees of the Danish Business Authority, we ensure that the Whitewash Secretariat can transmit important information for the purposes of the Danish Business Authority's control, without there being any publicity about which bank employees and other persons have in due course reported this information to the Whitewash Secretariat. I look forward, of course, to the further examination of the proposal in committee and would just like to point out in this context that I think that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has touched on an extremely relevant element of the draft law. This is actually extremely good and it naturally raises questions which, in the further work of the committee, we must help each other to clarify, so that we get the answer to the questions that arise on the relationship of a matter which is passed on to the police. How is the anonymity of the employee concerned secured in relation to any reprisals thereafter? I will just sign for that and confirm the willingness of the government to support the committee in that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204153	There is a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204156	I would like to thank you for the good cooperation and also the willingness that this should be able to land quickly. As we already know, there have been inquiries to the Danish Business Authority, and police cases are not anonymous. So when you, as an employee, get a message in your e-Boks that you have to turn to them, you do, and then you can get into trouble. So I'm really happy about the quick work you've done, and also that you're on board that it should be good all the way, because I really think it's been quality-proofed. I just want to know if the Minister agrees with the fact that a guarantee is being granted... now there is Article 22 (a) (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) ( 3, that is to say on the first page, so it is no longer nerdy, I would just like to say, but also in relation to the concern that I share with the So it is the different conditions that may be that I just want to hear the Minister about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204257	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204258	I can start by giving the information that the bill here is to insert a section 22a and a section 22b into the law. That is it; it is the two elements that are, so it should be clear. But that is why the challenge is very good when it is passed on to the police. In other words, it is not only employees from the company in question who can submit notifications, and therefore one cannot be sure, even as a small company, that if a request was made for one's small company, it should be from one's office lady, who is the only employee you have, in addition to those in production. However, there may well be conditions that we need to clarify further, and we are also open to that. What is really important to us is that when we can see that a number of inquiries are being made today to the Danish Business Administration, but that you actually get cold feet because you are afraid of not being sufficiently anonymous, we must ensure that this is the case as far as we can get around it, and we are prepared to support the committee in that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204404	There are no more questions from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204409	Thank you. I was just beginning to think that it was only about employees who can do whistle-blowing in the workplace, but now I am really glad that the Minister mentioned right here also that the whistle-blower scheme is part of all the aid packages in the various areas where one can imagine that there may be an incentive to cheat. I would have just asked that if the Minister had not just reached it himself and I had managed to print it. I would ask him to confirm that it is indeed the case that this applies to all the aid packages and in different ways and not just to employees in individual companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204445	What we are changing here applies to the aid schemes administered by the Danish Business Administration, and it is not only employees in a company that can indicate. That's why we've been a little bit around this about whether or not you could come up with a scheme that animated the harassment of behavior. And that's actually why it's a little important that you are not so anonymous to the employees of the board that they don't know who you are; they need to know who you are. So you have to stand by your application, but it doesn't get public knowledge, and the company you report something against or report information about isn't told. But the board has to know, because there also has to be the seriousness that you stand by what you come in with. So that part of it I can at least confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204530	Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204532	At the same time, let me acknowledge Mrs Victoria Velasquez' very sharp look precisely in this case and in many other cases. I also think it is very good that we can end with a good case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204545	Well, I can only confirm that, and this applies to the whole business group, that there is a high level, and it goes so far as to make sure that we get home in good time as well. So the receipt's just back from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204556	Yes, be careful, there is one more brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204600	It is a question of concluding on a positive note here, but it will be as far from my nature as it can possibly come. So let's get it back to a proper level. Now you mention that with those things from the Danish Business Administration, so I would like to ask if the government is planning to extend this to, for example. to cover the places covered by Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen, because there are also some things in the cultural field and some large aid packages where there is also a lot of money in play. Has any thought been given to whether this is something that needs to be spread out? Do we know whether the ministers in the other areas have done this? It could also be an idea that there was a similar whistleblower scheme for those places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204646	I would like to start by saying that there is no doubt that the large-scale aid packages are here. These are wage compensation, self-employed, fixed costs; they are the large-scale schemes, the arrangement scheme, etc. To be honest, I am not aware that there are similar discussions in the other rapporteurs on the same subject, but what we are doing here is dealing with the arrangements administered by the Danish Business Administration, and these are five very large schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204721	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204722	Now I am so strained or perhaps so lucky that I have nine rapporteurs, and I am, for example, rapporteur. I would also like to thank the rapporteur on culture, so that I know what discussions there are. That is why I asked whether anything came from the government in that area, as I know there has not been the discussions in committee or elsewhere about it. That's why I'm interested in hearing if there's anything coming from the government. Because some rather large schemes are there, for example. in the media field and other support schemes in the field of culture. There is also quite a lot of money in this area. And some special arrangements have been made for example. artists and others where it might be appropriate to do so. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204754	You're welcome. I do not know whether we got that much closer, but it is of course very welcome and also possible to address the various rapporteurs. I can only honestly say that I am not aware of whether this is something that has been raised elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204809	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And if no one objects, it considers it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200528204820	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 29 May, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
