ParlaMint-DK_20201120100004	The meeting is open. I have received from the Prime Minister a notification of the change of government that took place yesterday 19 November. The notification will appear in the Parliamentary Times (cf. (see below). Following my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 19 November 2020 has decided to dismiss Mr Mogens Jensen, Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, and the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Mr Mogens Jensen, from his position as Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, to provide for the establishment of a Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, to exempt Mr Rasmus Prehn from this position and to appoint him as Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, to provide for the following areas to be assigned to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries: matters relating to agriculture, including ecology, food safety, food health and food supply, animal welfare, including the relevant institutions, etc., as well as matters relating to fisheries, to provide for the designation of the Ministry of Environment and Food to be changed to the Ministry of the Environment, to provide that the responsibility for gender equality with related fields is transferred from the Ministry of Environment and Food to the Ministry of Employment, to the Ministry of Employment, Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, to be designated as Minister for Employment and Minister for Gender Equality, and to appoint a member of the Danish Parliament Flemming Møller Mortensen, Ridder of the Dannebrogorden, to Minister for Development and Minister for Development and North Cooperation. I would ask the President to inform Parliament accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the criminalisation of invitations to tender, dissemination and facilitation of sugardating via websites, etc.). René Christensen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on several reefs in Danish waters). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to allow municipalities to demand 33 per cent. general housing in local planning areas). Henrik Dahl (LA) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Enquiry no. F 21 (In the light of the case of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, where a now sent department manager vandalized a bust by Hans Majesty Frederik V... will the government state what it intends to do to ensure freedom of spirit at the academy and prevent identity-political extremists from taking power and destroying the professionalism and cultural contributions of the academy?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100100	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100117	Thank you. The legislative proposal that we are going to deal with here today aims to lay down a requirement for the incorporation of biofuels for 2021. The bill consists of three parts. Firstly, it is proposed that we maintain the increased incorporation requirement for biofuels in petrol, diesel and gas delivered for land transport of 7.6%. The incorporation requirement has previously been increased from 5.75%. to 7.6%, and that is what we want to do for the calendar year 2021. Secondly, it is proposed to set the incorporation requirement for advanced biofuels at 0.3%, so that we ensure that part of the incorporation takes place with advanced biofuels that have a better climate profile than the first generation biofuels. Finally, with the third legislative proposal, we propose that the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply be authorised to limit the use of fuels such as palm oil in counting in compliance with the incorporation requirement. This is in order to reduce the use of high-risk products for indirect land use changes. Unfortunately, we have seen that palm oil often has a worse CO2 bill, as stated in 2021, and the Social Democrats want us to replace the incorporation requirement from 2022 onwards with a displacement requirement so that we promote the green fuels that have the best CO2 The discussions are under way in the context of the negotiations on green transport and we hope that a good solution will be found from 2022 onwards. Of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100259	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100303	It is a good thing that the bill here opts out of palm oil, but I am surprised that we have not gone a little further because we could have taken the soy oil on the list. I am well aware that if you go one step further, you get to the rapeseed oil and you can find arguments that it would be difficult to go so far. But why is it that the soy oil has not just been taken with it, so that we could prevent areas in South America with forests being cleared, where it ends up in a soya product, and prevent oil being extracted for what can be put in the tank in Denmark, so that you officially have a nice climate accounting? I mean, why didn't you go ahead and take the soya oil into this deal? I have the impression that this is something that is part of the discussions for 2022 and beyond, so much more complicated, I guess. Why not include this in the agreement for 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100359	The palm oil is clearly what has been discussed most, because there is the negative profile of the palm oil as there is now. That is why I think it is very sensible that there has been a special focus on palm oil. It can then be said that using it for land transport is, in general, a transitional solution and not something that is a long-term solution to the challenges that we face in relation to the transition to green transport. Therefore, it is clear that in the long term we must also phase out the first generation fuels in the tank, but that is why there can be some good effects over a period of time compared with the CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100454	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100455	Well, I understand that the palm oil has then been discussed mostly, and then we must have more discussion on other issues, so that they can, as well as being on the list. I am happy to contribute to that, and we have had a proper soy debate here in the Danish Parliament recently, so this is a well-known problem. So I am a little surprised that one cannot go any further, since one knows that there is a problem with using food to put in the tank of Danish cars, that is to say that one has not made any progress in relation to taking the soy with it. Is it not well known to the rapporteur that there are also problems with the cultivation of soya, where forest areas in South America are being grubbed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100527-2	There is no doubt that there are also major problems with soya production and with imports. That is why I also think it is very positive that there is so much focus on reducing the use that exists. And, as I said, we also believe that we need to look at CO2 to a greater extent in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100609	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100618	Thank you for the floor. The Left has an ambition to reduce the expected increase in emissions from the transport sector to the benefit of the environment. This will not happen if a lower incorporation requirement covering biofuels in petrol, diesel and gas delivered for land transport entered into force. That is why the Left supports maintaining the increase in the incorporation requirement from 5.75%. to 7,6%, which entered into force on the first day of the year in 2020. We also support setting the incorporation requirement for advanced biofuels at 0.3%, after which advanced biofuels must be at least 0.3%. of an undertaking's total annual sales of land transport fuels measured by energy content. Both incorporation requirements are also proposed to apply until the end of the calendar year 2021. The proposal is to implement a broad agreement concluded with the government in October. We can see ourselves in that agreement, and the demand for increased mixing slash displacement also results from EU regulation in this area, but there should be no doubt that the Left would have liked the agreement to have been more long-term, because of course the agreement is not only made for the sake of climate, but also for the sake of the industry that is being affected. The Left wants the industry to experience greater security in the longer term too, and that is where we clearly believe that a single year is too short a view. We basically believe that the industry should know their terms a little longer than the end of 2021, but we support the agreement in one year's time, because if we do not, the terms of the industry will change at the turn of the year and we will not reduce this increasing emissions from the transport sector. That is why the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is voting in favour of the
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100813	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100816	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am basically surprised why the Left thinks that it is sensible and has a desire that such an agreement, which maintains a mixing requirement and a clear incentive for first-generation biofuels, runs longer than what we are, fortunately, negotiating in the transport negotiations, namely a CO2 so I just have to understand: what is the basis for the fact that the Left would think it reasonable that the agreement we are adopting today should have been for, for example. Three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100851	I think we have to say that the displacement requirement is also one of the things we are looking at very much. However, it is crucial for an industry that delivers that the first generation is after all also something that has an effect, and we are quite prepared to move on. So what we focus on in the future is well known that we are very concerned about power-to-x etc. So I actually believe that the way forward is not so divided about when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100923	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100924	No, I hope not. It is enormously central to the SF in the negotiations on how we regulate fuels, that it is not for the sake of the industry that we do it, but for the sake of the climate, and I just want to hear: does the Left agree with the belief that it is better for the climate that you actually get a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120100947	Now it is the case that the industry is the prerequisite for us to make the whole green change. That is why we also believe that it is important that we create a framework for those who are now working on developing green fuels and that they also have a certain investment horizon. I think that actually plays a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101006	There are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101017	Thank you, President. After all, it is revealing to hear how the Socialists here in the Danish Parliament want to make the green transition a contradiction between business, economic growth, development and then a climate agenda, and it is nice that it is highlighted several times, because it reminds me exactly why it is that the Danish People's Party is included in these agreements. There are many who ask me: Why sit with all those climate freaks, that is, how can you even stand it? There are people for whom the economy and everything else are irrelevant, as long as you can reduce CO2 Because the good answer is that this agenda is simply too big, too important, too important, too important for you to just leave the minister in such bad company. For if the green agenda is to succeed, not only in Denmark, but also globally, it is here in Denmark and perhaps in a radius of 1,000 km from here that the technologies, which are to be disseminated globally, will be developed, as is the case in land transport as well as in transport by sea and by air. It is true, in terms of how we produce our heat and our electricity, that if this transition is to succeed, it is not relevant what happens in Denmark compared to CO 2 That is the whole basic idea. That is why the agreement we have before us today is also an excellent agreement. It is not a flashy agreement, but it is an excellent agreement. We lift the incorporation requirement on petrol to 7.6%. We will then only do it for the coming year. We would have liked to have seen a little more ambitious in order to also give the perspective to producers that biofuels are in a slightly longer period of time to invest in. But now, politics is the art of the possible, and again: If Dansk Folkeparti had not joined with other bourgeois parties here, we would have left the minister in an incredibly bad company, and it would have gotten much worse. That is how it is sometimes in politics: that you have to have the long light on, and when you have been in this game for some years, you start to be where the light of 10 years ago was shining, and it is uplifting to be suddenly in the light of the past, in the sense that you can see that the things that we did and the decisions that we made at that time are starting to manifest today. In other words, we're on our way. When we can see that other European countries are looking to Denmark to invest here, to be part of the technological development, what we call power-to-x, and where we are looking forward to necessarily not having petrol and diesel, etc. that come from the underground, in the cars, but maybe have some brand new exciting fuel types that may have been developed on CO2 Then we can always discuss: How much first generation and how much second generation? For us in the Danish People's Party, it has been important in relation to the second generation that we at least have such a requirement that it stimulates demand so that we can take away what is being produced internally and that we also ensure that we continue to invest and produce increasingly forward-looking. Because by stimulating it, this is not just a green transition, but it also becomes a good business, and the latter is actually a prerequisite for the first, and that is probably what you need to be a non-socialist to understand. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and Mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left, come up here and have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101542	Thank you, President. With the legislative proposal, we are implementing the agreement reached earlier this year on an increase in the incorporation requirement for biofuels in 2021. The Radical Left can vote in favour of the bill, as this is a transitional solution for 2021, which ensures calm about the industry's conditions until an agreement on a CO2 agreement is not perfect, but we are also under a certain pressure of time to ensure that the industry can conform to the new requirements, which are already coming into force on 1 January. We would have liked to see a greater share of second-generation advanced fuels in relation to first-generation fuels and a higher demand for advanced fuels. But, on the other hand, it is really, really good that Denmark, with the bill, prohibits using palm oil for biofuels. Palm oil is the raw material for biofuels that has the most rainforest on their consciences, but now it can no longer be used to meet the fuel requirements, so that is really, really positive. It is not only socialists who are concerned about getting palm oil out of the incorporation in Denmark, but it is also something that a green and social liberal party like Radical Left cares about. Basically, it is because when we look at the total CO2 that is why I was just about to comment on the previous rapporteur, but it is super important that we adopt a climate policy that makes sense and real reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101750	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101754	I also think it is good to have a list where palm oil is rejected as part of the solution. I'm just wondering, when you have that focus, you haven't moved on in this deal and have also brought the soy oil. I have had a very good debate in the past with the Radicals' agricultural rapporteur here in Parliament, where we discussed whether we could prevent any of the imports of soya from South America from coming to Denmark, because imports are part of the problem of deforestation in South America. My impression is that there are some in the Radicals who see the problem of soy imports filling so much. And then we have an agreement here that is not critical of the fact that there is soy in the tank in our cars in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not see that it is too short a list, that is, that it is only palm oil and that one should have gone further?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101850	If the Enhedslisten had bothered to stay at the negotiating table, it could have been that we could have pushed it even more up for 2021. Basically, there is a circle of parties here that Enhedslisten is not part of that then takes a step, although it is a rather dull transitional solution for 2021 that actually takes responsibility for also getting the palm oil out. This is something for which I believe the Enhedslisten's rapporteur must also have noted that the green organisations are signing up. Basically, it is now and here about making a proper solution about a CO2 and, more importantly, we need to include the ILUC effects, that is, global emissions. This must be something we can count as soon as possible, so that it becomes a real displacement requirement and not a paper exercise. So it is a clear call for Enhedslisten to come in constructively and to help get not only palm oil but also soy out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101953	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120101954	So the Radicals take full responsibility for keeping soya oil in something that can be put in the tank in Denmark. I think it is a little thought-provoking that the Radicals cannot get anything through at the negotiating table when the Enhedslisten is not on the table. I find that a little disappointing. I think we should have fought more to get the list longer. I note that this is obviously part of the agenda for what is being discussed from 2022 to 2030. So I'm just wondering why it can't be done with the step you take here from 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102026	I simply note in all silence that we have been a number of parties around the table who were to meet for a transitional solution from 2021 and where it has not been on the surface to bring the palm oil. And that is something that we have done and that I mean, when we only talk 2021, we can be proud of. It also sends a clear signal out of the country that this is something we are doing. And then, of course, soy has to be included, and we need a CO2 that is very, very close to our hearts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102109	With this bill, we are extending the increase in the incorporation requirement from 5.75%. 7.6%. It is a regulation that has also been in place this year. At the same time, the requirement for advanced biofuels is set at 0.3%. Basically, SF has the same position as we had a year ago when we were discussing the legislation for 2020. We see the bill as a patchy solution that could have been avoided if we had had a more rigorous approach to getting a future-proof solution done exactly as we also discussed a year ago. We believe it is fundamentally important that the forward-looking regulation that becomes of the fuels that are poured into the idea of internal combustion engines in this country is regulated from a CO2 so it can be said that when you have that position, this bill and this agreement are therefore a patchy solution. It has been SF's overall ambition to minimize the time period for this agreement, because it is simply not a future-proof solution, either for the climate or for the industry. If you read all the answers to the consultation • it's from Dansk Erhverv, Drivekraft Danmark, Dansk Energi • they emphasize that what the industry wants is a CO2 This is a patch solution that we have. In the SF, we would have preferred to see the demand for the advanced biofuels, which are the biofuels of the future when we talk about it, being higher. This has not been possible, but we are happy to note that it is, after all, raised compared to this year. There is nothing more to say than that this is a year's patch solution which, with two fat lines below, shows that now a long-term solution needs to be made. We are pleased that this is part of the ongoing negotiations on the green transport of the future. I do not think there are any rapporteurs who doubt that the SF is fighting for a CO2 because what we need is to create a market for the renewable fuels, that is, those that are being made on power-to-x.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102358	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102400	I'm glad SF points out that this is a patch solution. I would really like to know if it was not with this agreement that there was a joint press release afterwards where there was no quote from the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102414	Maybe I didn't get a quote for this deal. If sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen with it implicitly tries to ask if it is, because SF isn't very excited about this deal, I just want to lie down flat and say it's quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102434	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102454	Thank you. This is a bill that translates into an agreement that Enhedslisten has chosen not to be part of. We think it's important to work on this CO2 and why are we here? Well, that's because the previous government has totally failed. There, four years had been seen with Lars Christian Lilleholt as Minister for Climate and Energy, and what happened during that period? Yes, there was an old agreement from the old energy agreement from 2012, and it was well known that there was an EU requirement to work to minimise CO2 On the contrary, it happened that some diesel and petrol cars were reduced, so buying a large diesel or petrol car was cheaper. This was the transport policy which operated for four years with a left-wing government. So I understand that Dan Jørgensen has taken over a bad starting point, and that is why it has ended up in such agreements here for 2020 and 2021, where we go on in the wrong direction and where you end up with food mixing in the tank in the Danish cars, and then you can officially have a good account CO2 That is a shame, and I would say that it is the fault of the previous government, to a greater extent than it is the fault of the current government. And I look forward very much to having an agreement on transport towards 2030, which takes the massive CO2 if you look at the target we are going to achieve by reducing by 20 million. t up to 2030 and if you only reach one million of this kind. t or 1,5 million In the case of transport in what is now being negotiated, we are in a situation where we have to turn the whole of agriculture into a national park in order to achieve it, and I have the impression that it is not the government's policy. It is also not the policy of the Enhedslisten, although we would like to reduce the agricultural area. But it is actually very necessary to find lasting solutions for CO2 In this bill, we then come to opt out of palm oil as something that can be put in the Danish cars' tanks. I think it would have been very natural to have gone one step further and to have rejected the soya oil as well. We have had some good debates in the Parliamentary Chamber where we have discussed the extent to which we can limit soy imports to feed in Denmark and where the parliamentary basis of the government has been quite agreed that this was an important issue. Now we have a case here with mixing, where soy has not been rejected; I find that disappointing. So we do not agree with this proposal and we look forward very much to something significantly better coming for 2022-2030, although I am a little concerned about whether it will be significantly better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102817	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. I should just like to point out, for the sake of good order, that ministers are addressed to the minister or with their title and not their first and last names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102832	As several rapporteurs have said, the draft law here implements an agreement between the government and a number of parties, including the Conservative People's Party, to increase the incorporation requirement for biofuels to 7.6%. Biofuels in 2021, reducing the demand for advanced fuels from 0.75 to 0.3 per cent, still away in 2021, and banning the use of palm oil. The agreement is one year old and, of course, it is a weakness. We should be able to reach a broad agreement on a future regime for biofuels, which is more long-term. Such an agreement must, of course, be ambitious, but it must also ensure that we can actually achieve its goal, so that the call from it is to ensure a long-term agreement that will ensure that we achieve a climate-neutral transport sector, including in 2050, but where we put the tracks so far into the future that the framework conditions for companies are appropriate, while at the same time getting the transition that we all want. So, with those comments, the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120102956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103003	The Government has put forward a draft law amending the Biofuel Act. The purpose of the bill is to implement the agreement reached on 7 October 2020, of which New Citizens are part. The industry needs clear rules on the incorporation obligation for biofuels in order to allow them to make adjustments and investments in time. New citizens want to accommodate this, so that our business community is allowed to do their job. The temporary extension of an increased incorporation requirement ensures short-term stability in this area. The Agreement applies to 2021. We in New Citizens would have liked the agreement to go further into the future, at least 2 or 3 years, but one year was what was possible to agree on at this time, and New Citizens therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103056	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103106	The Liberal Alliance joins the parties that say that this bill is a patchy solution. However, we want to go a little further and say that the real solution is not all possible better rules for what you put in the tank. It is that we have a well-functioning quota market for CO2 2 In the absence of these things working optimally today, we see this as a patchy solution and we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103154	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and therefore it is now the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103204	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As you know, negotiations are currently under way between the government and the parties of the Folketing on how to create a greener transport sector in the future. This includes, among other things: discussions on a new and future-proof solution for the biofuel sector to enter into force in 2022. Until the long-term solution is in place, we must calm down on the terms of the biofuel industry and lay down rules for the use of biofuels by 2021. In October, the government, together with a number of parties in the Danish Parliament, concluded the political agreement on incorporation requirements for biofuels in 2021, which we are talking about today. Let me stress that this is a temporary solution for 2021 and I look forward to finding a long-term solution with you in the negotiating room. The draft law we are discussing today contains three main points. Firstly, we ensure CO2 This is done through the proposal to maintain the increased incorporation requirement for 2020 of 7.6%. to apply also in 2021. Secondly, we set the requirement for advanced biofuels at 0.3%, and thirdly, we exclude biofuels on palm oil with a high so-called ILUC risk from counting in the incorporation requirement. Let me thank you for your interest in the draft law and say that I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103350	Thank you. Now the Minister himself mentioned that some negotiations are under way, and I think it is very exciting if we go a long way with CO2 I would really like to ask the Minister if it is not a little unsolidarous towards the new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, if it is the case that in transport only one or another CO2 is reached then we have a new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, who is facing almost dismantling it all and planting forest all over the agricultural land, in order that the government will, as it were, achieve our common goal of a 70-percent reduction by 2030. Can it not give rise to the Minister's a little more solidarity with the new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and also take on a greater share of the task and give priority to the negotiations so that more than just 1 million can be achieved? t i CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103446	I think that the question is slightly outside the scope of this, but I will try to help the questioner to get it tracked in, so it is still connected, because I think I understand the intentions. How much CO2 of what we decide to do in relation to the incorporation, and what the government has proposed, is to replace the incorporation requirement with a CO2 I sense that there is a great deal of support among the various rapporteurs in general. But the next step is, of course, to determine how high it should be and how it should be arranged. How big a CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103549	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103550	Well, then I'll try to stay within the bill. I think it's really nice that you come to the conclusion that you don't put an orangutan in the tank by putting palm oil in it. Then you could have walked a tooth further and turned off soy and just extended the list twice up compared to two products you were not allowed to put in the tank. I wonder why we should not take soy with us, because it would be rational; that is to say, it would be based on taking the worst away first. Why is it that the Minister has not gone further and has opted out of soya oil already here in 2021, when, according to rumors, it is something that can be done from 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103626	Again, I will help translate what the questioner is referring to. When reference is made to an orangutan in the tank, it is not the case that we blend an orangutan and put it in the tank, but then it is because palm oil is also used in cars around the world, and it is typically something that comes from countries where palm oil plantations have been made after felling rainforests, and that goes beyond the habitat of the orangutans. Fortunately, we agree to oppose this, and that is also what we are addressing with this bill, and that is also what needs to be addressed in the future. Then it is true that there are other crops, such as cereals. Soy, which we must certainly look at and which we are also working on in relation to the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103702	There are no further brief comments, and so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103716	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120103737	Thank you. We are now going through a colder and darker time, not least a wetter time. We saw this last year, when winter was both the warmest and the second wetest winter since 1874. We saw repeated pictures on the news of farmers with flooded fields. Streets and straits in our cities the country was flooded. There is little doubt left that climate change affects our weather. It requires us as legislators to provide a good framework to ensure that the water masses can be handled. The aim of the draft law, which we are discussing in this Chamber today, is to boost climate adjustment efforts and modernise and uniform rules. In 2016, the 25% municipal co-financing rule was applied to the above-ground climate adjustment projects of the waste water companies. This has made it harder for waste water companies to make solutions above ground, such as: could be solutions in parks or along roads to hold the water back or lead it away. With the bill, we will remove that requirement so that waste water companies can again fund 100%. of the above-ground climate adjustment projects. This should help to set off several surface projects and, above all, not to make climate adaptation unnecessarily expensive, because, as we know, the climate adjustment on the surface is significantly cheaper than that taking place underground. The bill is the implementation of an agreement on better climate adjustment from May this year between a large majority of Parliament's parties. As a result, it is also proposed to introduce requirements for monitoring climate adjustment projects paid over the water tariff so that we can ensure that they are socio-economically appropriate. In addition, it is proposed to standardise the rules on efficiency requirements so that all climate adaptation projects are subject to efficiency requirements. The issue of the general efficiency requirements in the sector will be looked forward, as stated in the agreement, to the implementation of the adjusted economic regulation in 2021. It is important that we ensure that the necessary investments can be made in climate adjustment, but at the same time taking into account that it is ultimately consumers who pay the bill. It is an important priority for us to create a good framework for dealing with large amounts of water, because unfortunately we are looking into more and more wet winters. Now we are taking an important step in the right direction with this bill, which, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104018	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104021	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When the Social Democratic Party launched this agreement, there were two cool lines under which it was supposed to speed up the climate adjustment in Denmark. That is basically sensible. I would say that now I live in a place where February was very wet and there was a lot of water everywhere, and it was quite clear that better climate adjustment was needed. However, the Social Democrats are still backing and have been very clear about the fact that an efficiency requirement for these climate adjustment projects is absolutely sensible. SF disagrees with that. So I just want to know if the Social Democrats do not share the concern, such as: DANVA, which represents all the waste water companies, has, and as they point out, that the requirement for efficiency can do just that we do not get the kick-start of climate adjustment solutions that the Social Democrats have said this proposal will provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104116	I believe that efficiency requirements can be very sensible in the sense that they are used in the supply sector precisely where there is no natural competition, and that is why we need to simulate this competition which is being experienced in other industries. So I believe in many ways that it makes sense for us to have these efficiency requirements, and what we are doing with the legislative proposal is precisely to ensure that the rules in this area are aligned. In this way, I also think it makes sense not to go in and open up when we are about to discuss general economic regulation, including efficiency requirements, in the sector next year. Here, of course, it is important that we also have some good discussions about whether we should strike the right balance in ensuring that climate adjustment can get under way, but at the same time also ensure the right consumer protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104219	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104221	The alignment of efficiency requirements is as djøfsk as something can become, so I just need to hear the Social Democracy, whether the most important thing is that we come out and have more climate adaptation solutions in surface water solutions that are cheaper than getting it underground, or is it the case that there has to be a coordinating equality in relation to the efficiency of all climate adaptation solutions in the water sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104246	I do not really think that there is much confusion about removing this municipal cofinancing rule, which has just helped to bring some of the good projects that might otherwise be out there to a halt a little more. I see nothing but that there will be a good incentive now to make some of these investments in solutions on the surface, which are significantly cheaper to make than investments in solutions under the surface.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104314	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104316	Well, it's the dilemma that if you make those solutions under the surface, in pipes, you can just forward the bill to the water users. And then there's a dilemma here. The rapporteur says that we must make the necessary investments • fully agree. Let us now say that we have a water company that delivers drinking water and takes back some waste water from consumers, and that company then comes to the conclusion that they also want to do a climate adjustment project where they handle some rainwater on the surface somewhere, and do good by implementing that project so that people do not get floods and get water in their cellars and there are other social damage. Once that project is completed, and if it's really smart, it's just lying there and it's part of a local area, something that gets flooded sometimes, and where the water company has nothing to do out there. A good solution has just been achieved. Why, then, is it that there has to be an efficiency requirement for the other activities in dealing with waste water and drinking water, in relation to the fact that you are being pressured over there on your economy just because you have shown a social mind and carried out a good rainwater project?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104421	You might ask why there must be competition in this society in general if companies are just doing some good activities. Why, then, do they have to be under competitive pressure? And that is, of course, the thinking behind the fact that we also have regulation of the supply sector and that we are thinking of improving the efficiency of the supply sector. Whether we strike the right balance in that we have to ensure what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that we can make these good investments in climate adaptation, is of course a very important issue, which we must also have a great deal of focus on when discussing the financial regulation for the water sector in the future next year. I think it makes sense to make this alignment, which is being proposed with the draft law, but that we also have a broader discussion about whether we strike the right balance in ensuring the right investment, but at the same time consumer protection also in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104522	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104523	Well, that's a good spreadsheet response. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to deal with reality, the reality I outlined just now, in other words, if a water company carries out such a rainwater project and comes up with a good local solution which should not be serviced afterwards and which is just there and is part of it. Why, then, is it that there must be higher water dissipation charges for consumers in that area just because the local water company has implemented a good solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104553	Well, it may well be that it gets a little dull, because it's just some really difficult questions, in terms of how we ensure this right balance between consumer protection and that we can get the investments we need. However, I look forward to discussing it further in the circle when we talk next year about how to organise the economic regulation of the water sector in future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104617	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104625	Thank you for the floor. This bill deals with two issues. One is changed rules on climate adaptation carried out by waste water companies, and the other is the framework for how water companies can pool funds in an association for projects aimed at promoting water technology. In relation to the climate adjustment itself, we can only see that the rainfall levels have become quite much more violent. We note that we have a history in which the water companies had the opportunity, with a municipal planning, to do some things underground which were very, very expensive. A model was then drawn up in which the municipalities had to cofinance 25%. It's stopped something. Now we are standing where we have a model in which we say that the water companies must make surface solutions, and that makes sense because it is cheap. At the same time, we say that efficiency must also be made more effective. And here I am slightly different from my rapporteur's speech. For the essence, and we have seen that in the Left there is a problem here. The Left has then said that, if what we are doing as an extra thing, an extra surface water project, is a small part of the balance, then it is not the big problem that we should then have an effective improvement in it. There is a water company, for example. has assets of 1 billion. kr., and you make for 20 million. kr. or 30 million kr. or 50 million kr., then it is a small part of the balance that is being affected. If you have another water company where you have to make surface solutions for perhaps half of your asset mass, it will be difficult, and that is where I think we have given each other a hand to find solutions to that. And we have also said that the model for managing these companies that we will look at in the future should also have an eye on how to ensure that investments are made. So we are aware that in the sector and in the municipalities a number of questions have actually been raised about the requirement of efficiency. Having said that, I think we have to say that this allows the water companies to actually take an active part in resolving some of the challenges, and it will still be the municipalities that are supposed to make the basic planning for what is to happen. That is why we are in favour of the very model we have drawn up here, with the comments I have just made. Then it is the case that the water companies also have the opportunity to pool funds. In the past, they have had another system where they could pool funds so that they could jointly develop new systems of one kind or another. And it is clear that if you can develop systems where energy consumption is less and where pump power should be less intense etc., then there is a perspective in the future. So we also support that part of it. The Left will vote in favour of the bill, but we are also aware that there are challenges in it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104930	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120104934	I understand that we have a task in discussing this efficiency requirement further, until there is another legislative proposal. After all, it is necessary to take that debate when you have legislative proposals that do not fully solve the problems. Perhaps in this process, and also in the committee, we should try to see what it really is for some investment requests for surface solutions that are in some larger municipalities in some municipalities, where particular problems have been experienced with increased rainwater volumes. You usually make legislation that applies to the whole country, but it is not certain that this legislation solves the problems where they have the greatest problems. So I look forward to the continuing debate on the unfairness of these efficiency requirements. And it may well be that we could come to the conclusion in committee that it is very large investments in relation to the own funds that are in some companies and why would they do so when they also have other investments they have to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105033	Thank you. I think sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen agrees with me that we have a challenge in also securing reasonable prices for consumers. If we look historically at the prices of the individual water companies, there have actually been relatively large differences. And that's why it's necessary when we're in a monopoly market as we are that we have some control mechanisms that ensure that inappropriate operation like being hunted. In the Left, we are concerned that consumers are getting prices that are reasonable in a market characterised by the fact that there is precisely no competition. After all, we are in favour of the market having to deal with a great many things, but we recognise that we cannot have more actors making sewers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105118	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105120	However, after a number of water companies have been converted into public limited companies, there is still a municipal appointment of some of the board members, so there is, in fact, an opportunity for each city council to influence what kind of water prices you have, what kind of water dissipation charges you have and what kind of investment budgets are being made. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105142	Yes, I agree with that, but that does not change the fact that when we look at it historically, we have actually had some very, very large differences in what the water dissipation contribution has been and also what the price of fresh water has been. There are some very large and not quite easily explainable differences. That is why we are concerned that we have constantly put the pressure of efficiency on the sector, as well as other monopoly systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105208	There are no more brief comments. So thank you to the rapporteur. That's how it is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105221	Thank you, President. There is something ironic about following the debate here today when you see how the views wave between the right and the left, because we are dealing with a legislative proposal that, in such a way, cements monopoly activities run by politically appointed boards. It is, of course, historically something that has fit very well into the far left's way of thinking the whole of society. Yet that is where the opposition is being heard. That's kind of funny. If we still have that situation, it is, of course, because this is a natural monopoly. It is very difficult to imagine that a household should have many different sewers for sewage and sewage water, etc. That is why it is probably necessary to accept the state of things. Of course, we also do that in the Danish People's Party. How, then, do we ensure the balance between having as well-powered sewers as possible on the one hand and not going crazy on the other, so that the costs of the tariff are passed over and prices are rising for consumers out there? You do that in a number of ways. So far, there has been a co-financing condition from the municipalities, namely 25%, which is then abolished now, or at least the involvement of the municipalities is made more flexible, in order to transfer more decisions to the water plants. On the other hand, efficiency is required. It should not be a secret that we could be a little worried about that too, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentions that they are politically designated managements in the water plants. After all, not all municipalities are necessarily driven by parties that set efficiency and economic rationale at the top. We find ourselves, for example, in a situation like this. right now in a municipality where we are very, very close to the fact that the extreme left party might get the majority and such things, so leaving them the power to run a business like a waterworks can seem a little bit fear-provocative. That is why it is important that there is a framework and some requirements and also some powers for the municipal council or others to intervene and at least have a share of responsibility. That is why it is important for us that the Minister emphasizes here that, in the case of large investments, the municipal council should be just in front of us, so that we do not see an insane increase in the water dissipation tax or anything else, because a presumably very left-wing majority in a town council has appointed some partyo that should have a leg to sit as chairman of the waterworks. Excuse me, President, Genosse is German and means comrade. This is important to us, so I hope that the Minister will make that point in his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105539	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105549	Thank you. This bill is a follow-up to a broad agreement from the spring, which aims to boost a cheaper and more efficient climate adjustment effort, in other words to support climate adjustment in a socially appropriate environment. The best thing about the new bill is that it changes the requirement for municipal cofinancing, so that water companies will again be able to pay up to 100 per cent. the cost of handling rainwater. In addition, water companies will be given better opportunities to direct climate adjustment projects and other parties to certain types of joint climate adjustment projects will no longer have to put off the water companies' share. So these are some positive elements of this bill. However, it should also be borne in mind that not everyone is satisfied with the new legislative proposal. This is due in particular to the rather rigid efficiency requirements for water and waste water companies. It also gets quite a lot of consultation answers along the way, for example. by DANVA, who states that they fear there will be an inhibition of climate adjustment due to the introduction of these counterproductive efficiency requirements, as they call them: additional documentation for reporting requirements, rushed implementation, etc. So these consultation responses I think we should take very seriously in the forthcoming committee procedure, but of course also do so in respect of the fact that this is a broad agreement which reflects the fact that there are compromises between all parties from the Enhedslisten to the Liberal Alliance. So in these words, we proceed positively with the committee procedure, which I think we should do thoroughly. However, as I said, this is again a broad agreement from earlier this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105753	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we now move on to Mrs Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120105801	The bill is a follow-up to a political agreement on new rules for water companies' climate adaptation, and it is also part of the SF. In general terms, the SF has the basic vision that we need to address the whole area of climate adaptation and that we even need a climate adjustment law. This is a good and important corner, and I believe that anyone who remembers last February, to whom the Social Democrat rapporteur also referred, will say that it was a month of water and water, and then more water. It just shows that climate change is here, and having to make climate adjustment is, after all, the economic consequences of it, the very practical consequences of it. And we simply need more climate adjustment, including in the short term. It is the case that the co-financing demanded by the municipal councils in the past has put an end to the fact that these surface water solutions have been created for rainwater, simply because the plant ceiling and other municipal priorities have put a brake on it. We basically think it is very good that you now 100 per cent. can finance surface water solutions in the water companies. This is a huge step forward, and it is very good. For basically, it is very important, both socio-economically, but also in relation to climate adjustment, from the SF chair, that we have more surface water solutions made. And as many have also pointed out, it is basically just a cheaper solution than having to get it down into some pipes underground. Nor should there be any doubt that making an efficiency requirement for these plants, which are solid plants that are difficult to streamline, is a fundamental concern that will slow down the kick-start of climate adjustments that we need in Denmark. And in the political negotiations we have tried to get the requirement of efficiency out of the way. It has not succeeded, because when a common agreement is to be reached, everything cannot be as SF would like it to be. Therefore, we also think it is important that we follow this coinage that we see whether it has the effect we had hoped for, or whether the water companies' professional organisations and many others are actually right in saying that it is a constraint on an efficiency requirement for precisely these climate adaptation projects. But overall, SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110043	Enhedslisten is for this bill, even though we haven't made it all the way. I would like to welcome the fact that what the previous government introduced back in 2016 about introducing that municipalities had to pay 25%. of projects with climate adaptation, we now get rolled away. The fact that there is a requirement for efficiency is the hard one in the legislative proposal, and I think it is probably necessary to discuss it further. When I think back like this in the neighbourhood, I think of a residential area in Lystrup, which lies outside Aarhus, and which was hit hard by heavy rain at a time, as all the water from that city ended up on the lowest villa roads, and it was actually quite violent. It was so violent that the new motorway, the Djursland motorway, also had problems with the exits. That must be said to be a social problem. Now some surface water basins have been established in different places in Lystrup. It looked a little funny when they were completely newly laid, now it is something where there is some vegetation, and there is thus the possibility, if we had a proper winter, that there might be rinks on those areas, but it is sort of just something that is just lying there, something that is there that is ready, if it is the case that there is a monster rain, then that is what is being flooded, and then there are no cellars that are being flooded at the same time. It's a simple solution. And if it were a project to be carried out tomorrow, then there would be an efficiency requirement if the local water company were to implement such sensible solutions as will ensure that people's basements and motorways are not flooded. So I guess we're gonna have to move this debate forward towards the bill that apparently comes there sometime in 2021, where we have the chance to deal with these efficiency requirements in different sectors. I don't really think it's that complicated. If you go down on the specific project, you can see that we have had a period when, if you wanted to deal with large amounts of rainwater, you could dig down large pipes and make an expensive solution, and then you could get consumers to pay it over the water discharge tax. Then it is a big plus now that we come to the conclusion that municipalities can do it on the surface without 25%. local co-financing. For we have been in the situation from 2016 that if the municipality had to choose to do such a surface project and contribute 25%. of the construction costs, yes, then there were other construction tasks in the municipality that could not be carried out, such as: renovation of schools and maintenance of roads and such. So this is the competition that sensible surface solutions have been in, and then many municipalities have chosen not to make climate solutions with surface water. This is understandable, and we can probably get statistics on how much it has gone down for committee reading, because since 2016 nothing has happened on the surface. DANVA has some figures for it, and I think we should get them to committee. Will more be done after this bill has been passed? Yeah, you can hope so, but it's kind of funny that we're out on some very big projects. There are projects that are planned, among other things. in the Copenhagen area, and that is understandable from what Copenhagen has experienced in the past with floods in people's cellars. You are out in some very large investments, and then you can count on what an efficiency requirement for the operation of waste water and drinking water that you already have means and how to handle it. I do not think that this bill solves all the problems, but I fully recognise that it is a great step forward that we are abolishing municipal cofinancing and thus eliminating the deterioration introduced by the former Left Government in 2016. I think the municipalities are good at making some good projects. I think that over time there will be the possibility of making some surface solutions where we get more nature into urban space, and that there are some areas that are sometimes flooded, sometimes dry, and that there may be some special vegetation there, and there may be some recreational values in it. So I look forward to taking the next step when we have to deal in 2021 with the efficiency requirements of the supply sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110505	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110515	Thank you, President. This proposal aims to give waste water companies better opportunities for climate adaptation and to support projects on water technology and projects to promote development and innovation in the water sector, and to enable roof and surface water management to take into account more frequent cases of heavy rainfall. So the proposal on broader areas of application is good; it is good that some co-financing requirements are abolished; it is good that more flexibility is created. I cannot help but take up my own municipal political background here and say that we should also be aware of what we are doing with a law that is as technical and as well regulated as this law is, because it takes responsibility from the municipalities that are to be involved in implementing the law, and we do so on the part of the Folketing a number of times. So we are going to regulate in detail in such a way that this municipal politician who comes onto the boards of waste water companies is put to the wall by a sector that is regulated and where the action options for action are not clear to the municipal politician. We have to be aware that when we regulate in this way, we take responsibility from the municipalities and hand over responsibility to the Folketing. I think that is a problem. I cannot say how exactly it should be resolved, but I think it is a problem that we should take more seriously so that the municipalities can actually be more active and active and develop this area. It may be that it would be better to regulate in such a way as to identify those companies which did not know how to make effective solutions and instead concentrate on them and on the state's side more inspired to good, effective solutions. We can see how the present law, the one we are talking about now, abolishes some of the initiatives that have been initiated by other waste water plans. This is true, for example. VTU, the Water Technology Development Fund, which is being shut down. The project, the government initiative, did not succeed. Other initiatives have not succeeded. And here we are proposing an innovation effort which seems a little relentless and which is not as active as it could do, and we actually need a waste water sector which also invests in new solutions and finds new ways to deal with the increasing amount of water. So we are in the conciliation and we support the bill, but we would also like to discuss whether we could regulate in a different way, including taking up the discussion on energy efficiency improvements one more time to see if this is the right way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110845	Thank you for the floor. L 98 aims to stimulate a cheaper and more efficient climate adjustment effort for waste water supply companies. In addition, L 98 supports climate adaptation at a socio-economically appropriate level. In New Citizens, we welcome the draft law's focus on improving the efficiency of the water sector. If this, as proposed by the proposal, can be balanced with a socio-economic aspect, we believe that there is a good focus in the legislative text on the need for all measures to be socio-economically appropriate. New citizens thus support Bill No. L 98, and we are also looking forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110945	The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120110949	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111000	Thank you for that and thank you for your many comments. I would like to start by saying that this is a very good day. If you have listened a little to the debate and otherwise you do not know anything about the proposal, you might think that it is a little dismal, because there is talk of efficiency requirements and tightening ties and bureaucrats, and I understand that there is even suspicion that there have been some DJs involved in writing the proposal. Yeah, well, there's definitely been one, me. I do not understand how the left can think that it is a problem that you are a member of a union, but it is evident. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is absolutely necessary. This is also one of the issues which, despite its technical nature, actually came up quite many times in the election campaign. I think that many of you have been at election meetings where one of the locals engaged in the hall, which fortunately there are many of you in Denmark, has raised your hand and said: Should you not change this if you come to power? We promised to do so, and that is what we are doing now. Then it is clear that in the negotiations there has been quite a big fight about this famous efficiency requirement. I am happy to stand up for the compromise that lies here, but I am also saying openly and honestly that this is an issue we are raising again in the context of future legislation on the economic regulation of the water sector in 2021. What this is all about, of course, is a balance. The efficiency requirements must not suffocate, they must not stop necessary projects, they must not be unfair and, of course, they must not be designed in such a way that they are impossible to meet. On the other hand, when we talk about natural monopolies, it is quite reasonable that we have a certain hand in dealing with the fact that they actually operate effectively. And why is that? Yes, mainly for the sake of customers, mainly for the sake of those who actually have to pay the bill, but of course also in a secondary way for the sake of the climate. After all, how much you can afford to make of good things depends on how well-functioning an economy you have as a company. So that is the balance to be found My assumption is that the compromise we have reached here is quite good, but I am also listening to the critical consultation responses we have received and the critical comments that have fallen today and, of course, taking them into the preparatory work towards the legislative work we are going to do next year. Good! This deal was made after a record wet winter. I gave myself an interview wearing rubber boots out in the water after a flood that could have been avoided. An entrepreneur reporter had dragged me out there to explain why this is necessary. Unfortunately, we will have to look forward to even more extreme weather phenomena coming in the future, and there will only be an even greater need for us to be more secure against the climate change that is coming, which is why this is so important. Fortunately, we reached a broad agreement in May, and that is what we are now trying to do with this bill as streamlined, efficient and non-bureaucratic as possible, despite the fact that this is an area where there are many rules and where there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. The bill contains the following: Firstly, water companies must be able to pay up to 100 per cent again. the cost of handling rainwater. Municipalities, private, etc. as in the past, must pay for costs that do not contribute to the management of rainwater. This should give water companies better opportunities to create climate adjustment projects over the ground, for example by depressions in parks and along roads that can lead the rainwater away. Secondly, a requirement is introduced that climate adjustment projects paid over the water tariff are socio-economically appropriate. Thirdly, several sets of rules are being put together and identical in this area, which today does not play together. This should make it easier to apply and manage the rules. This also means that there will no longer be any reason to exempt certain projects from the requirement of efficiency. Finally, and fourthly, the legislative proposal introduces better opportunities for companies to do the cheapest climate adjustment projects in cooperation with other partners, and we strengthen the supervision of companies' investment where it gives value. The proposal makes a flexible transitional arrangement between the previous regulation and the new one. In addition to the implementation of the agreement on climate adaptation, the legislative proposal also aims to establish new rules that promote innovation and technology development. In this context, the industry will be able to set up an association to support projects aimed at improving the efficiency and quality of the sector. For a number of years municipalities and companies have been asking for an alignment of the rules. That is now being delivered on. With the bill, we are making a much-needed reform of the climate adaptation rules. We are creating a better framework for smart solutions so that we can have much more climate adjustment for the money for the benefit of consumers. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111537	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111541	Well, it's fine to be organized in Djøf, and it's also nice to look in a spreadsheet, but we're just standing here with a case of climate adaptation where we have many experts. After all, we have all the Danes who have experienced problems with rising rainfalls... people who have flooded their homes and companies affected by flooding in the company. So we have a situation where there are a lot of people out there who think we should do more and who think the municipality should do more. And when the municipality has looked into the rules that we have had, I understand that the municipalities have opted out of this rather than for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think we have a system that is not good enough. Because it is a good thing that you can take out insurance so that you can have your home replaced if you are flooded, but I think we should actually come up with the big solution where we prevent more. That's what we have our water companies for. In fact, it could be good if you could pay for the insurance. Now it will just be over our water dissipation taxes that we pay for it, and that is, in fact, a fine arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111643	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111645	I do not really know if there was a question I did not catch, but I can comment on the speech. I agree that much more needs to be done in this area. Now Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen that we have many experts out there, namely the citizens. And that is true; they are at least experts so far that they can feel where the need is; that they can see it out there, sometimes in front of their own door or down in their own basement. In relation to the issue of efficiency requirements, I have to say that I am becoming a little polemical, and that is probably unfair, because it is not at all certain that that was what the questioner thought I have not yet received a citizen's call or experienced being out at a meeting where one has raised his hand and said: I am very opposed to the efficiency requirements of natural monopolies, including the water sector. That's not what you've been focusing on. What you've been focusing on is that it happens. I actually think you've focused a little on the water bill when it comes. And that is one of the things we as politicians must help to ensure: that we cannot just pass on unnecessary costs, which may be due to the fact that consumers have not been made more efficient enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111751	I'd like to say with a glimpse in my eye that it's actually called a short here, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111758	Well, I think we should have some longer debates on these efficiency requirements, and maybe we should have some math examples. It's fine that DANVA writes a consultation answer, but maybe we should have some good math examples of what this efficiency requirement will actually mean for some surface projects. Because reality has to hit this bill, and we have to see that this is something that works. And there we just have to say that the tightening that was done in 2016 prevented something from being done. So four years have been wasted, and we should like to see climate adjustment projects implemented again. That's kind of what's my focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111832	I'd like to shake hands on that. This is the kind of work we have to do towards the amended legislation in 2021, so we find this balance between, of course, making this sector more efficient, just as everyone else has to do and that we need to take that kind of consideration into account when it comes to natural monopolies and that, on the other hand, it should not stop good projects and, on the other hand, it should not be requirements that are impossible to meet. I think that is certainly the balance that needs to be struck.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111900	Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120111904	A little misunderstanding has arisen in the debate. It's not like SF, for example. is against the need for us to have an efficiency requirement for natural monopolies. What is the discussion here is whether to treat these surface water solutions in particular, and the reason why I just pulled the Djøfsk arguments into the discussion is not that there is anything wrong with skilled academics. But we just have to remember why we're doing this... why are we doing this alignment of legislation? After all, we are doing this in order to get more climate adjustment over the ground. And that's why the fundamental concern of the SF is that if we don't free it here for an efficiency requirement, then two things can happen: Either we don't get these climate adjustment solutions that I understand the Minister fully agrees have to be made, or the efficiency gains that you have to catch up with are pushed into the rest of the business. And what else does a water company do? They make quite sensible projects, I think, like cleaning our drinking water and cleaning the waste water. I mean, it's just to say that it's not like you have such super-great decoration on the pie you can otherwise save on in our water supply companies. So it is basically a concern that we do not achieve the intention that actually lies in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112013	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112015	As I said, I believe that, with the balance we have found here, we can vouch for it and that those concerns are not real. But I also say, on the other hand, that we must look into this and, if they are real, that is something we must take into account. I am not quite sure that there are only the two options that Mrs Signe Munk outlines. In other words, there is the possibility that in some places, and this is not something that I so actively suspect people are simply not doing what you have to do, so your responsibility is not grown up in terms of making things more efficient. This is bad for consumers, and it is also bad for the possibilities of creating even more good projects. But of course there is also the possibility that, even if you have a well-functioning organisation, you may look for opportunities once more, because it is clear that if the danger is that we are going to do something too tight and stop projects, then of course it is not going to work, and that is what we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112120	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112145	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112154	Thank you. When we adopted the Climate Act and the 70-percent objective, it was with an awareness that all sails had to be set in a green direction. That is why it makes very good sense for us today to deal with a legislative proposal that establishes a new green paragraph for Energinet. The new objective clause will clearly show that Energinet plays an important role in the green transition and will contribute to the development of a climate-neutral energy supply. With the new purpose clause, climate and environment will be a key consideration in the operation and development of the company and, above all, in the necessary expansion of our energy infrastructure, the physical as well as the market. That is why a new and transparent process is also needed for the investment of Energinet; a process to ensure that investments made by Energinet are consistent with the politically desired development of the energy sector, that relevant actors are involved early in the process and that alternative solutions for expansion are well illustrated. It is therefore proposed that Energinet prepare a long-term plan for the electricity and gas transmission network every two years. The plan will provide a comprehensive overview of the planned network development both in the short and in the longer term and will have to be published so that everyone can see the planned investments. This will create a more open discussion in the public and at Christiansborg about the development of future energy infrastructure. The draft law also proposes a new economic regulation of Energy Networks to balance both consumer protection and economic efficiency with the opportunities for timely investment in technology development and green conversion. Therefore, it is proposed that the framework for Energinet's costs should be established on the basis of both the actual and the expected costs, so that we can focus on future investments, which also support the green transition. The last part of the bill is about Energinet's board composition, so that Energinet's new purpose is at the heart, and about the mandatory digital communication with citizens and companies in the field of Energinet. Finally, it is proposed to adjust the Minister's ability to lay down rules on the reduction or withdrawal of price increases for upgraded biogas supplied to the natural gas supply network and purified biogas to the urban gas network in order to ensure that there is no overcompensation. We need to screw up the many buttons we have in order to reach all the way around in the green transition, and with this bill we will have the climate and environment at the heart of one of the important companies in the green transition. Of course, the social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112430	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112436	Thank you. Now it is all about climate and the common struggle for which we must all take responsibility. However, it was now a remark from earlier times when Mrs Paulin was on the platform that I just stumbled over. There, in a single season, Mrs Paulin used the weather as an entrance to the story of why we need to address the climate problem. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Paulin: does Mrs Paulin think that the weather can be used for a single season as a scientific basis for this discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112515	It wasn't a question I expected to have in this discussion about this bill, but if it emerged from the previous discussion that I used the weather for a single season as the bearing argument, I would say that I have been misunderstood or have not communicated clearly enough, because what it is all about is of course this more extreme weather, which we see generally as a result of climate change, which helps to underpin the whole need for climate action, so that we must ensure that it doesn't run any further in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112549	I do not know whether we are fully involved in the legal procedure in question, but that is Mr. Jens Rohde again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112554	But it's about climate. I'm just warning you not to use any narratives that may be problematic. I remember 2009 and 2010, i.e. when we had a climate summit in Denmark, and there we actually got the same day as it started, a violent snowfall, and we had a very hard winter. We did the following year. There were climate sceptics, I even think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was one of those people who went out and said, "You see, that's bullshit." There we were told by the researchers that we should not use the weather as a guide for this discussion. So it's just that in our joint struggle we don't move into a narrative that then gets shot down. That's why I mention it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112632	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112636	I would now like to say that I generally disagree with the fact that the weather cannot be used to support the argument as to why there is an urgent need for climate action. I think it is actually quite well illustrated that we see some overall changes in our weather that affect nature violently, and that this is precisely why we need to take action with an ambitious climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112701	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120112710	Thank you for the floor, President. This bill is about Energy Networks, and Energy Networks are our motorways for power, and at the same time it is also Energy Networks that own our natural gas networks, which are also used in connection with the transport of biogas, perhaps forward-looking also hydrogen etc. The bill is intended to implement two agreements. Firstly, the agreement on a new economic regulation of Energinet, which we agreed in 2018, must be implemented. Energy networks are characterised by carrying out tasks which are a natural monopoly. Nor can we have double high-voltage lines owned by several companies, etc., because that would not be appropriate. That is why Energy Networks are not exposed to competition and pressure for efficiency from a market, and that means that the price formation that is for Energinets is a price formation that we need to have regulation of. In the past it has been the case that Energinet has had to operate as a rest in itself, and there is the thinking that when one is resting in oneself, then the incentive to run the company as efficiently as possible is not present, since Energinet has simply been able to pass over, I would have almost said, their costs to consumers in relation to tariffs. Therefore, a revenue ceiling has been introduced so that there is an overall revenue framework for the entire company. A revenue framework regulation will improve consumer protection, as collections are subject to a ceiling. Then it is the case that Energinet is also an important part of the green transition, and right now we are in the process of turning our energy production back on some set. It has been the case in the past that we produced electricity at some large central power plants, but now we produce electricity in many places, also very decentralisedly, and this means that we need Energy Networks to be able to act also more agile than it has been, and that is why I and the Left think it is important that we also look into the future of new energy supplies in our regulation. It may be energy islands out in the North Sea that require us to be able to transport in power, perhaps to some power-to-x installations etc. So it's important. It is also important for the players in the market who are making green conversion that they are able to see what opportunities are coming, so transparency is needed. Then it is the case that, as a follow-up to the climate agreement for June 2020, an amendment to the Energy Network's objective clause is proposed. Energy networks must support the development of a climate-neutral energy supply while at the same time setting a clearer green direction for Energinet, where climate and environment must be taken into account in the company's operation and development as well as in the development of the overall energy infrastructure. So in these words, the Left indicates that we support the overall proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113036	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113048	Thank you, President. I agree with the sensible words that have come from both the Social Democrats' and the Left's rapporteurs on the legislative proposal we have here today, which would like to prepare the way for Energy Network to also be able to live in the green future and, hopefully, the cost-effective future that we are facing. There is no doubt that one of the major tasks that will also fall to Energinet will be to develop and maintain the energy network, the electricity grid we have here. This is not something we talk about so much, but with respect for the Minister, it is probably more fun to stand with the press and open offshore wind farms than it is to stand and speak for the need to develop and roll out electricity infrastructure. But it is now important that we maintain and ensure that we upgrade our especially central, but also decentralised, but now it is Energy Network we are talking about power grids so that it is prepared for the electrification we hope for and expect in the future. And that's what this bill was supposed to do. However, there is no cup without a bit of wormwood in the sense that a few weeks ago, on 5 November, there was a meeting of what is called the Stakeholder Forum behind Energinet, and there, of course, the future of Energinet and the bill we are discussing here today. With the permission of the President, I would like to quote from the note following the meeting: "It is a dilemma that a new economic regulation, which, among other things, will provide Energinet with incentives for efficient operation, will appear to give rise to significantly increased tariffs, because the regulation requires increased consolidation of Energinet, and increases capital costs. Against this background, the Stakeholder Forum considers it important that future regulation be designed to provide incentives for efficient operation and not in itself give rise to increasing tariffs. When I mention it and would like it to be included in the remarks here today, it is because we in the Danish People's Party are very much in agreement. Now we stress the green transition in the preamble to the Energy Network Act. That is fair, and it is also timely, because that is what must be the driving force behind Danish energy policy. But it is extremely important that we also pay attention to costs and that it is not just a free round to pass costs on to tariffs, so to speak, because it does not count in the overall tax burden and it is a little easier in that way to finance its things. So I would like to say that I fully agree with the dilemma which the Stakeholder Forum behind Energinet is in other words about. 14 days ago spoke up for it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Ruben Kidde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113411	Thank you. This is a follow-up to the climate agreement of 22 June and then a political agreement on future-proof economic regulation of Energinet from 2018 onwards, and this is, of course, a bill that the Radical Left can support, because with our political 70-percent objective it is important that we have up-to-date regulation of the Danish electricity infrastructure. Here, the updated economic regulation of Energinet is a good step in the right direction. The draft law proposes a change in the Energy Network's purpose clause, whereby Energy Network will contribute more to the development of a climate-neutral energy supply, while at the same time setting a clearer green direction for Energy Networks, where climate and environment must be a key consideration in the company's operation and development and in the development of the overall energy infrastructure. The draft law also proposes a new process for Energinet's investments to strengthen transparency on Energinet's plans for developing the overall infrastructure for electricity and gas. The draft law provides for the introduction of a revenue framework regulation for Energy Networks. A revenue framework regulation is a more modern regulation that provides incentives for efficient operation and efficient investment, as opposed to self-regulation, and we think this is positive not least because, at the same time, a new forward-looking regulation of the Energy Network is also being organised, so that there is also a mechanism to ensure the necessary investments beyond the historical level of investment, which is covered by a simple historical revenue framework model alone, and that is a way to ensure that there is a balance between an efficiency squeeze and then a framework that allows for the necessary new investment. And in parenthesis, the Radical Left also believes that the revenue framework of the electricity grid companies should have a forward-looking element, so we have it on distribution and not only on transmission, as we are talking about here, but this is an area that we can hopefully tackle with an electrification strategy that we will be discussing in the new year. It can be said that basically the basis for the long-term development plans of Energinet is still not envisaged in a 70-percent framework, because we have not yet decided in such a political way how the road to 70 per cent is going. must be fulfilled and what role the electrification should have. That is why it is not possible to assess one hundred per cent whether the regulation of energy networks is sufficient or whether sufficient investment is being made on the basis of what we have now, but it is a huge step in the right direction. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Radical Left is looking forward with great excitement to the discussion we are going to have of a comprehensive electrification strategy towards 2030 in the new year. So, with those comments, the Radical Left naturally supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113726	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113735	Thank you. There is a very good bill here for future regulation of Energinet, and I would like to start by expressing my appreciation of the fact that, on the basis of some concerns that were raised in the hearings, it has been updated in relation to the legislative proposal that came earlier this year. I think what is here is very well hit. It can be said that it is basically to ensure that Energy Networks can build the motorways of our energy supply that are needed to achieve climate-neutral Denmark and that we can get the green energy supply to the distribution network at all. There are several rapporteurs who have mentioned the many good elements of the draft law, in particular that the purpose clause now has a write about energy networks having to work for a climate-neutral energy supply, but also, of course, the very important thing in having a forward-looking investment profile so that we do not look backwards and at what has had to be done in the past in relation to investing in the transmission network, but therefore what is needed to achieve the ambitions we have in relation to both green gas, but, in particular, green electricity. There will also be greater transparency and political involvement in relation to major investment decisions, which is also important. As the previous rapporteur said, I also hope that there will be some inspiration when we have to make revenue regulation for the distribution companies, the electricity grid companies, because it is precisely in distribution that we also need a look at what it is actually for electrification, Denmark needs to achieve the climate target and what it is for some investments that need to be made in the electricity network to get there instead of looking backwards. We believe that there is good inspiration in this regulatory model, including for distribution companies. Overall, the SF supports the bill. We think it is very good, and it will make Energinet bring us even closer to a green future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113943	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120113952	This bill may seem a little technical, but if you take all the technical away, I'll consider it a Unity victory that we've come here with that bill. This is clear proof that there is a difference between a Left Government or a Socialist Government, and that there is a difference in that in particular when one has a parliamentary basis where the Enhedslisten is involved. It is a much better energy policy that is being proposed here; there is much greater openness about the large investments. And why do I say it so clearly? Well, that's because we've seen some projects like Viking Link, the electric cable to England, where consumers in Denmark are going to pay 11 billion. kr. There were clearly many in the western part of Jutland who suddenly felt overwhelmed by the fact that suddenly a big project came. There was a lack of openness. One can say that with the rules that Energinet had, they could only count on what it takes to create a new wire. But we suggested from Enhedslisten that one should also count on the scenario: What if we use the surplus of electricity we have in Denmark in periods, in the district heating supply instead? But it wasn't like what Energinet could count on. After all, it is gratifying that we are now coming to adjust the Energy Network's objective clause so that Energy Networks should contribute more to the development of a climate-neutral energy supply. So you go from this to a company that just has to ensure security of supply and be positive towards any new electricity or gas pipeline, to taking wider social considerations and incorporating climate into its planning. We think that's really good. You could also take the Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, which is perhaps a little more foreign policy and which can lead gas from Norway to Poland. After all, it was also a project that we tried to make part of the parliamentary election campaign. It did not succeed because it was like a project that had practically run. It was limited what could be gained from writing letters to the local media on Funen. It was not a heated debate, and I have just noted that after the project has been approved by the Minister, there is then a resistance to that project. And it would have been better if we had had greater openness about what major projects are on the way. This openness is important. Now it is being proposed that Energinet should make some more open processes about its planned investments, and this will mean that neighbours to such large projects, researchers, political parties and interest groups have an opportunity to look into what is actually being planned by major infrastructure investments. As far as democracy is concerned, it has been the case up to now that it has only been a minister who had to approve construction projects of over 200 million. kr., whether it was Viking Link or Baltic Pipe or other billions of investments. This was something the Minister alone could decide. After all, it is now being set up in the same way as what we have when there are applications to recover oil, gas or shale gas, that a committee in the Danish Parliament and it will probably be submitted to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee if it is the case that a new Baltic Pipe arises. And is that a thoughtful example? No, not quite, because there is, in fact, a gas pipeline planned down on Lolland, and I do not know if it will be dealt with before we get this bill passed. It is a little up to the Minister, but there the Minister has promised that there will be political involvement, despite the fact that he actually has the full power to conclude himself. And it is a good thing that the Minister shows this openness in relation to a large project, which, of course, has a major impact on the energy supply in the local area. In the future, it will then be up to us to send something to the committee, and then we can test whether there is a political majority in favour of it. It would probably be wiser for a minister to implement only what is behind it. Otherwise, it could be a case you fall on. Then we look into the fact that we will have a society with a higher electricity consumption. And the high voltage masts set up in West Jutland after the Viking Link decision will not be the last. It may be that we can do something that minimizes the number of high voltage masts, but we are in a process where our total electricity consumption is going to fill more and where we need to make wise investments. It is very good that Energinet will have to look at more than the individual pipeline in the future, so that it will have to aim for the development of a climate-neutral energy supply and better planning. And that's what this bill is all about. It may be a little unconventional, but I would like to thank the Minister for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114446	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114455	With the change of the purpose clause in Energinet, we adapt Energinet's purpose to the future that we can all see into. In order to achieve our climate objectives, we need to expand our electricity grid considerably, and this requires investment and planning that Energy Networks cannot meet with the current objective clause. So that is a clearly necessary change in the purpose of Energinet, and we welcome that, of course. On the other hand, we would also like to have an energy network that is cost-effective and that we can provide electricity to citizens in an efficient way. As has been mentioned from up here several times, Energinet is a natural monopoly and does not have any natural efficiency pressure on it, so I am pleased that that part of the agreement also focuses on the fact that we have an efficient Energinet. This is also important for the green transition, because if we do not have access to cheap electricity in the future, we cannot make effective power-to-x solutions in the future either. So it is in our all interests that there is both an effective expansion of our electricity grid and an effective pricing of our electricity. Otherwise, we will not be able to achieve the green transition, and both are necessary here. It is not an easy balance when we talk about it, because investment will lead to higher prices. So it is important that there is also, as mentioned by Søren Egge Rasmussen just before, that there is an openness about the process and that we have a discussion on how to achieve the most efficient and future-proof expansion of our electricity supply in Denmark. In those words, we can endorse the present draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114654	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114708	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the bill is, for me, to see transparency, efficiency and a more forward-looking development related to the electricity supply of Energinet and the natural gas supply law, and we in New Citizens welcome that. Furthermore, I note that the aim is to achieve more balanced consumer protection and economic efficiency. I also agree with the comments made by the National Association of Municipalities in their response to the hearing. The new process of stakeholder involvement and political involvement in relation to future investments in Energinet and electricity supply in general and natural gas supply should also involve the municipalities. It is in everyone's interest that local authorities and local politicians be given the opportunity to be involved and thus take ownership of new initiatives and investments in electricity supply in Denmark, and with these words New Citizens' Bill supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114810	Thank you. Public monopolies that receive their money, whether they deliver a good product or a bad product, must be handled by the politicians responsible for them, requiring them to deliver the best possible and cheapest possible. This is true whether it is a crèche, a school, a hospital or Energinet. That is why we support this bill which reinforces the efficiency of energy networks, as we do in the other public sector. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114852	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. All the rapporteurs from the parties have taken the floor and then I can give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120114902	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments. Energy networks today play a key role in the green transition. Energy networks help to ensure that we can supply consumers with record amounts of green energy, wind and solar energy as well as biogas. Energy networks' tasks have evolved significantly since the adoption of the Energy Network Act in 2004. At that time, the main focus was on implementing an ownership separation of system responsibility and transmission from production and trade. The energy sector has since been undergoing a major change. We are now working towards a climate-neutral energy system based on 100%. renewable energy. The terms of the Energy Network's task solution are therefore now also changing. The core task of energy networks remains to ensure security of supply, efficient operation and development of the overall infrastructure and to ensure open and equal access for all network users. With the bill here, we are setting the framework for Energinet to support the development of a climate-neutral supply as well. This must be done with maximum transparency and consumer protection. The draft law also follows up on the climate agreement for energy and industry from June 2020. Here we agreed that the government should present measures to ensure a future-proof electricity network. The draft law also follows up a broad political agreement on future-proof economic regulation of Energinet from May 2018. The bill contains three main elements. Firstly, the draft law amends the Energy Network's purpose clause, which sets a clear green direction for Energy Networks. The change will mean that Energinet will have to contribute more to the development of a climate-neutral energy supply. At the same time, Energinet must include climate and environment as consideration in the company's assignment. Secondly, the draft law proposes a new and more transparent process for the investment of Energinet. The bill provides a framework for stakeholders and municipalities to be involved earlier in Energinet's plans for developing the overall electricity and gas infrastructure. At the same time, there is a call for increased political involvement in Energinet's infrastructure projects. Major projects must therefore in future be submitted to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee prior to final approval. The new process also stresses that it must not delay the connection of, for example, solar and wind energy to the electricity grid. Thirdly, it is proposed to introduce forward-looking economic regulation of Energy Networks. It is proposed that Energy Networks should be subject to a revenue framework regulation. Here is a framework for the actual and expected costs of Energinet. Economic regulation must balance economic efficiency and the possibility of socio-economic investment in the green transition. The proposed regulation therefore also contains a forward-looking element which takes into account future investments and additional costs to support the green conversion. Overall, the draft law sets the framework for an Energy Network that is ready to support development towards a climate-neutral society. The objective clause sets out a clear green direction for Energy Networks and ensures transparency about the energy networks' economics and investment plans, so that the development and development of electricity and gas networks is carried out efficiently and for the benefit of consumers. I thank you for your interest in the draft law and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115242	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. There are no brief comments to the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115309	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115330	Thank you for the floor. Sex without consent is rape. It is really very simple, and that is how simple it can be said. Nevertheless, one can be very surprised that this is not already the case today. Today is an historic moment. Today, we are dealing first with a bill containing perhaps the biggest amendment to the law on rape since it first entered the penal code I think it is as far back as 1666. This is a crucial step. Today, even if you say no, it does not necessarily mean that you are raped. I think most Danes will wonder about that. That is because the legislation we have means that there must be violence or coercion or other things before there can actually be a rape. That is what we want to change. Of course, the right to decide over one's own body, the free will to decide who one wants to start a sexual relationship with, must be at the heart of our legislation as well. That is why this is also one of the most important steps we are going to take, including in relation to gender equality, between partners, also of the same sex, because it must of course be the case that engaging in intimate sexual relations is something that both parties not only want, but also agree with. That is why I am really glad that the parties that also helped to make the understanding paper for this government have managed to create a common basis for that legislation, and I very much hope that the legal treatment we can have in the Folketing means that we can all agree that it is high time we changed this legislation. There are grounds for thanking the former government, former Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, for getting this work going, in other words asking the Criminal Code Council to produce a report, a basis for decision. That was right, it was good and it must be recognised today too. The legislation we now have is based on that preparatory work. We have not agreed with everything that the Criminal Code Council came up with, for example. We believe that this should be consent. We believe that this should be the case. If two parties meet each other in the city, have not previously had a sexual contact... it may also be two colleagues for a Christmas lunch... having fun, flirting, it may even be that you kiss and everything else, go home together, does that mean that it should develop into sex between the two people? Is it quite natural because you've had a prelude where you've met each other? No, it's not. If one side doesn't want to, and the other wants to, it's rape. It was one of the most weakly formulated in the basis that lay. That is one of the points we are making with this legislation, namely that there must be consent. That consent must, of course, also be constituted, that is to say. You have to find out how that consent is expressed. There is also a proposal for this in the legislation here. In the end, it will be the case that a court and a judge at the end of the table will have to decide on the evidence in a case. And in a case where there are two people in a room without witnesses and everything else, it can of course be difficult. This simply does not change the fact that there are too many, mainly women, who live in a relationship and who are being raped today, who are never recognised and who never lead to judgment. When you read the sentences that are in the preliminary work that has been done; when you receive letters from women who have been subjected to abuse, it is quite incomprehensible and incomprehensible that it is not illegal. The women's organizations have been very active, and at one point I got a stack of letters with descriptions from women who had written a 15-year-old girl, I think she was whose older sister had a boyfriend; she knew the boyfriend very well, they lie together in bed at night, the older sister sleeps, and he takes offense at her, and she never gets it because she is uncertain what is happening. Had it been convicted today as a rape? Not necessarily. Will this be the case when the new legislation comes? Yes, it will. Because it is up to the party that has taken the initiative to contribute to saying something. What happened that made you think there was consent here? I'm really happy and proud of this legislation. I think this is a hugely important step for everyone in Denmark, and I am also very proud as a father of two girls to be able to help make this legislation, because it can also change the culture for them when they grow up. So I would like not only to express the support of the Social Democratic Party, but also to express my pride that we can present this legislation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's for sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115906	Thank you. We think this is a good bill and we will vote in favour of the bill. That is why the process of the agreement on the legislative proposal is very puzzling to me. I understand that there were broad negotiations about making an agreement, and then suddenly the government thinks that it should only make the agreement with the red parties, although what is agreed is something that is widely endorsed. Why did the government insist that it should be a narrow agreement on something so important when it might as well have been a broad agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120115939	I really welcome the positive support, I have to say, and I hope that we can have a legislative proposal here, for which all the parties of the Folketing can vote. In fact, I think that would be a very strong signal, including that it is not just legislation, but that it should also bring about a change in culture and shift the understanding of what is acceptable and ensure that the rape victims who come are also properly treated, so that when you report a case you are taken seriously. It is true that in the paper of understanding we have made to form this government, we have been very clear that this was one of the cardinal points on the table. That is why it is perhaps no wonder that we started there, in other words with the parties behind the papers of understanding which have brought us into the government offices, in relation to making a common understanding. We are very happy to take part in a debate in this Chamber and in the legislative work so that we can, hopefully, adopt this legislation together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120032	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120034	In other words, I am not a legal rapporteur and have not participated in the negotiations, but as I understood it, there was a start there that broad negotiations were invited and that there were broad negotiations, and then, at some point in these broad negotiations, one simply decides that the agreement with the red parties would only be made, even though it might have been possible to reach a broad agreement. Isn't that how it was? And if that's the way it was, why was it like that? Why did the government do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120059	No, that's not how it was. We can have such a process discussion, and I would also like to take part in it, but I do not really think it should overshadow the historic moment we are in. But it is not the case that there have been broad negotiations, and suddenly we step out of that negotiating room and sit with the parties behind the understanding papers and make an agreement bypassing the large and wide debate. No, that's not how the process has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120124	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120128	Thank you. I also think that this is a very important legislative proposal that we are discussing here today and which, I hope, will very soon be adopted. But there is, of course, a resource issue which I believe has something to do with the fact that only 100 out of 500 notifications today reach the courts. I think so, and I can only build it on faith, has something to do with resources. I have a close family member who wakes up with a man on top of him after a party. Like so many young people, she has the phone under her pillow. She gets it turned on, and you can hear that she's screaming about what the man is up to. That goes to the police, of course, but the case does not come to trial because of lack of technical evidence. For me to see without me praying, sir. Jeppe Bruus to take a stand on that case, it is an indication that it is uncommonly difficult to get anyone convicted, let alone get them to court. Has it been taken into account in the negotiations here that some resources may have to be provided to ensure that the cases are actually brought to justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120252	Well, at least I feel like I'm gonna get really upset about a case like this. I have also met women who are not taken seriously when they report their case or who find that it is being said: why don't we talk about it a little before you start reporting it? And there are women who may also sometimes be counted from reporting it. I would say that when you talk to the police at central level, they actually say many of the things we want. Unfortunately, however, I also have to say that there is sometimes an experience that those whom you then meet at the station do not always say the same thing. It is therefore essential that this legislation brings about a change. It is in the culture of young people, so they know what rights you have, but of course also a change in the police, in the prosecution and in the way the courts act. We will not solve that either without resources. That is why I am very pleased that, when we are debating the police settlement, it is one of the things that is on the wallpaper. A group of experts has also been set up, which has made a number of good recommendations on how to create a better process. That is some of what we take very seriously and look at very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120351	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120352	I think that's nice. Then it should be borne in mind that things are going all the way up and that it is also in relation to the resources to train the police to really deal with these cases in the case in question, which I am aware of, I must say that the handling has been a little questionable, but I do not want to embarrass the rapporteur on that. But it's a very special case for these young women, and they feel they're being robbed of their bodies. That's why the bill as such is fantastic. However, we have to ensure that at first the processing is the right thing to do, that the prosecution has the right resources and the government has played out with it, but we also have to ensure that the courts have the resources to do so. It just has to be the call from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120437	It starts with a good piece of legislation that clearly tells everyone in this country what rights you have and that you should have no doubt that you should report what you are exposed to. One thing is the cases that are being reported, but there are very many cases that are not being reported, also because more than 70% are being reported. These rapes take place in relationships or in relationships. That is why we need to send out a clear signal from here today that it should no longer be the case that we are in doubt as to whether we really should report it. And when you report it, it must of course be taken seriously. You have to go all the way through it can be when you move down there the next day, the same evening or 10 days later.Of course, this requires us to put in and follow a number of the recommendations that have come from a number of good experts on how we do it much better, and it is both at the police station, but also right up to the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120531	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120536	Thank you. Too many women in Denmark are raped and too many perpetrators are allowed to walk free. That is why we in all the parties in the Folketing agree that something needs to be done about it and that there is a political task to be solved. In this context, this bill has been preceded by, among other things: asked the Criminal Code Council what they recommend of the two variants that have been talked about, i.e. legislation based on voluntaryness and legislation based on consent. Ten out of 11 recommended voluntary legislation. One was simply afraid that it would criminalise sex between people unnecessarily if one chose the path which the government and the majority of the red parties have now chosen. Can the rapporteur describe why it has been decided to go the way of consent rather than the way of voluntary service? Well, what's that? What is the difference between the two who have chosen consent rather than voluntary, as recommended by the Criminal Code Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120643	It is true that the Criminal Law Council had 10 members who meant one, and one member who meant another, and they did a very good job. Some of the work that was not so good was that they would not deal with each other's arguments and examples all the way through, and it is clear, of course, that it makes it a little more difficult. When we chose to go with consent, it was because there is a lot of overlap between the two concepts, and that depends very much on how to define them. This is also a clear, clear signal that you have the right to decide your own body, and it is not unreasonable to expect that if you start a sexual relationship with another person, it must of course take place with consent. Then you can segment it in voluntary or consent etc. The most important thing has always been that the content is strong. But words also mean something, of course, and the emphasis on consent also sends out a signal that we must ensure that both parties are not only in agreement but that they also want to do what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120749	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120752	Hopefully, and probably a common goal, fewer women must be raped and more perpetrators punished. But hopefully it is also a common goal that legal certainty for all parties must prevail. Has the rapporteur and the Social Democratic Party, the government and the parties to the agreement considered legal certainty for men with the powers now given to the courts to judge in sexual relations between two people, where, as the rapporteur himself says, there have been no witnesses and where even in marital contexts this could mean that an argument prior to having sex later that evening could result in this being declared a rape? Are we not, then, on the wrong side of what legal certainty should provide of opportunities for citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120848	Three or four young boys with another ethnic minority background take a young girl into a backyard or in a basement shaft, laugh at her, etc. and have sex with her in shifts. Is she saying no? No, she doesn't. Is she there voluntarily? They say so; they are words against words. With this consent legislation, we are insisting that it should not only be voluntary, but that it should also be done with consent. They will now be asked: What did you do to secure that consent? It will also be an aggravating fact that they stand there in that way and intimidate. So there's a difference, and we don't want to be a part of this three or four young boys pushing a young girl into sex, laughing at her and maybe even recording it a little and then standing and explaining that of course it was just completely voluntary and lovely and fantastic. It is fair to expect that we can punish them if it is not absolutely clear that this was an agreement with consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120120947	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121006	The proposal we are discussing here today is, of course, about introducing a consent-based rape clause into the Danish penal code. It is proposed that the Penal Code, specifically Paragraph 116 (1), be replaced so that in future it is apparent that sexual intercourse with a person who does not consent to it is rape. No one should be subjected to rape, because it is a crime, and it is a crime that puts deep, deep marks on the victim, it is inhumane, and of course neither we as a society nor the victim can contain that, and neither should we. We agree with the Criminal Law Council that the existing legal situation does not provide adequate protection for victims of rape and that the rape legislation should therefore be updated and also modernised. The present draft law then introduces a form of consent into section 216. That must mean that in future it will provide protection in situations where, for example, the victim is a victim. freezes in anxiety associated with a rape. Because the provision no longer requires the victim to be subjected to violence, threats of violence or to be in a helpless state. This means, for example, that in situations where one person is completely passive, an obligation rests on the initiating party to make sure that the other actually wants to have intercourse. The new consent law will continue to provide the prosecution with proof that the defendants had intercourse with the victim and that the victim had not consented and that the defendant had intended that the victim did not participate with consent, and therefore it is the courts that have to assess the specific case. In the Left, we believe that the new consent law will make a real and very, very important difference to the rape victims, and we are therefore also positive about the government's proposals. We probably have some things that we would like to raise in committee, and that is for example. in writing. - (FR) The level of penalties for rape crimes, and that is to say, whether the normal sentences given in the courts today actually reflect the nature of the crime, which we in the Left do not quite believe they do. That is why we are ready to increase the penalties, and that is probably some of the things we are going to raise and would like to discuss, as the Socialist rapporteur has already mentioned in an answer to one of the questions, that we are also looking at the police's handling of rape victims who come into a police station and want to report rape. After all, we are going to discuss all these things, and this is something we hope will take place in perhaps a slightly different spirit than this bill has come out of. Because the Left will support this proposal, but I would say that we are actually very sorry about the process that has been up to this. We believe that we could have had a different and good process in the Folketing if all the parties of the Folketing had been involved in the work and, to put it bluntly, we think it is a rather strange process that has been around this which we have witnessed. Because we are witnessing, on the one hand, having a government that says that people want to cooperate widely in the Folketing and, on the other hand, making a bill and an agreement in this way bypassing the bourgeois parties. We think this is wrong, also because this is so important a case and it could have had a completely different one. But now it is as it is and, as I said, we are going to get involved with these things in committee. But I can also say right now that we are going to support the bill, although we will have looked at the penalties, and we are also very pleased that it will be part of the police negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121503	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121508	Thank you very much for that very constructive approach. In relation to the process, it was here, as I also answered Mr. Ole Birk Olesen earlier, a very, very clear part of our understanding paper and therefore also something we feel bound to deliver. I would like to sign up for the very constructive approach and say that, of course, we are also going to do so with the same constructive approach in the legislative process here, and I certainly also see that the Left is just as concerned about this as the rest of us, both in relation to this, but also in relation to the ongoing police negotiations. I think it is very, very positive that we can bring together a very, very broad majority, because it is an important, important signal to send out to all those women in this society who deserve their cases to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121557	Of course I acknowledge that, but one thing is that you have an understanding paper along with some very red parties, and that is as it is. Another thing is, of course, that there can be no scrubbing of the government, which at least says that one wants to cooperate broadly in the Folketing, by also showing that one actually wants it. So it annoys us, but it should not hurt the victims of rape that we have a government that, in my opinion, may be gathering a little too much around the red parties. One could just have had another fine course, and I actually think that could have helped to lift this case, and I also think it would have been good for the rape victims. But it is as it is and we will vote in favour of it. We are going to make some of the recordings I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121641	The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121645	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much to Mrs Inger Løjberg for her speech. I'm actually a little bit moved by the fact that the Left supports this bill. That is very, very positive. The Enhedslisten has put forward proposals on this in the Parliamentary Chamber all three times, and the Left has voted against it every time. So I would say that I am also touched because it comes as a bit of a surprise that the Left supports it, but it is a very, very positive surprise that you are supporting this bill in the Left. So I would just like to thank both the Left and Mrs Inger Løjberg for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121722	Well, I would like to sign for that too, and then I would like to say to Mrs Lund that it could be that sometimes you could also discuss with the blue parties and then actually come to an agreement on some things. It might well be that sometimes we had to be let into the same room, and then it might be that we didn't have as much disagreement about everything as it might seem at first sight. But now we are where we are and then let us have proper committee reading of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121747	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121748	I certainly agree with Mrs Inger Løjberg on this, and if I have noticed something that has sometimes been highlighted by the Left, it is of course that we will not solve this problem without also strengthening sex education in primary and secondary schools. It is also a question we have raised several times in the Enhedslisten, so I think it is quite obvious that we meet in the same negotiating room and agree to strengthen sex education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121817	We would like to discuss both sex education and punishment and everything. It's about getting proper in this field so that justice can be done where it's been.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121833	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121837	I would also like to express my thanks for the support of the Left. In fact, I think it is very good that we can gather together on a proposal here which is so important. There may be a bit of a side branch to this proposal that I would like to ask about, and it is really about people with cognitive and mental disabilities. There was a new report from the Institute for Human Rights not so long ago which shows that their cases are at greater risk of ending up with an indictment. There's four times as likely to be. They have more difficulty lifting their cases. They find it harder to understand what is happening in a trial. In fact, they are not compensated either, because this is something to be sought from the trial itself. It also has a consequence in relation to rape cases, where unfortunately we can see that there are occasional abuses in settlements and other places where these people live. So I just want to know whether the Left will give a commitment that we will also have a look at that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120121943	At first glance, it sounds to me as something that could also have a place in the police negotiations, of which SF is also a part. As I said, we are willing to discuss everything, but have not thereby given an undertaking that we agree with the SF on everything. However, I think that some proposals should be put forward, and then we will have to take the discussion from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122007	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122008	I do not really believe that this is part of the police negotiations. I would very much like to have a passage in the Code of Procedure that when you have a person with a mental disability, yes, you have to assess the victim's support needs, so the victim has the same equal access to lifting his case as everyone else. Especially because, unfortunately, we see some abuses in settlements and other places where there are people with cognitive and mental disabilities, I think it is very important that we give them free and equal access. So will the Left help to work for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122047	I can say so much that it doesn't really matter who you are or where you live: you shouldn't be raped.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122056	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122112	Thank you for that, President. I got such a picture when I heard the debate that Enhedslisten and Left were let into a room, and then they waited until white smoke came up, i.e. until they had agreed. Well, it's not because there's been a new legal rapporteur in the Danish People's Party. I am simply so lucky that I have been allowed to stand here today. Today we are discussing Bill No. L 85, law amending the penal code, the consent-based rape clause, or the daily consent law. It is a law that should provide a better opportunity to ensure that those who actually commit rape are subsequently punished as well. So far, so good. Because if we can in any way help to ensure that perpetrators are punished, we will gladly participate in it. Unfortunately, we do not see that this law creates the necessity of the law, which really changes something in a possible trial, as it will still be words against words. Unfortunately, the law does not ensure that sexual assault does not take place, nor does the law ensure that it will be easier to lift the burden of proof afterwards. Now it is a question of merely expressing consent and whether there has really been one will be words against words, just as it was in the past. The law is more like a form of symbol law, without giving it very much in practice. But the symbol, that is, consent to have sex, is of course also a step in the right direction. Whether it is possible to legislate so that it changes something, we are not quite sure now. Even now, I suspect that there are not many rapists who acknowledge that the victim, in their best faith, did not do so voluntarily. You are probably already claiming that this was not rape, but voluntary. So, in reality, we do not see that this amendment of the law will change very much in practice. A little more is being added and a little more taken from somewhere else. The law is, in our opinion, more designed to send out a signal that when you have sex, it must be based on consent. It is a principle which should of course be logic for everyone. At the same time, we know that, unfortunately, everyone's attitude is not that way. There are still far too many rapes and we can see that men with a foreign background are over-represented in statistics. That is where action should be taken and, at the same time, the penalty should be increased. After all, we are in complete agreement with Mrs Inger Løjberg and her speech. We are also voting in favour of the draft law, despite the fact that we believe that there should be many other places to take action if we are to do more to deal with sexual abuse. It could be that aid for victims and the subsequent compensation for victims should be improved and that the penalty for the perpetrator should be significantly increased and that, if they are foreigners, they should of course be immediately expelled. We are, of course, happy to participate in the further work of the Danish People's Party, and we are also looking forward to further negotiations in this area. However, I would like to make a comment on what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt also asked. This is, in fact, an important issue. After all, I myself am the disability rapporteur, and we have tabled proposals in the past on adult certificates. This means that, just as we do in the field of children, we had to show it. We have the children's certificates, and in the same way you could have the adult certificates in the adult field. Unfortunately, it was voted down in the Parliamentary Chamber. What we then did afterwards was to come up with a proposal that, of course, public criminal records should be obtained on professional staff. In fact, before I went to the platform, I was just reading about a 14-year-old who was raped in a psychiatric ward by one of the employees. So there we also have an area I think we should go in and look at. In fact, this is also something that has been supported by both the Elders case and the disabled organisations in the past, not because we can prevent it from happening, but there is at least a prevention element in obtaining a public criminal record. Then why does it have to be a public record? It has to be because it goes back longer. Some cases could have been prevented if a public record had been obtained. Unfortunately, there have also been cases in residential and other places, including home care, where someone has been employed after he or she had committed sexual abuse. So I'm hoping the Minister of Justice will take a look at that. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we would certainly like to help ensure that people with disabilities also receive the help they need if they have been abused or raped against them. So I look forward to having constructive committee work, and as I said, the Danish People's Party will also vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122618	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122623	Thank you. I just managed to get worried that the Danish People's Party did not vote for this bill, because the rapporteur says that nothing really will change. But I am glad that the Danish People's Party will nevertheless vote in favour, although I also disagree slightly. I am surprised that the rapporteur says that it is only symbolic when we see one case after another where no judgment has been passed because no active 'no' has been given. Now we are changing the law so that there must have been a consent, and that changes something, not just symbolic. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122702	As I heard the Socialist rapporteur, he was also talking about culture, change and signal. And this bill is an important signal to send. When I'm talking about symbol, it's one of those things. about something that I have in this article, where it says that consent claims do not change anything in rape cases; and it is a professor, Eva Smith, who speaks about it, so that is mostly what I am thinking of. However, the second aspect of the symbol legislation may be good, because it is, you might say, a symbol that we are tightening up, and that leads to the fact that, as you know, there is a huge focus on it. We must hope that it will move forward, but we can only see that when we have the legislation evaluated at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122750	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122752	I also fully agree with the rapporteur that a culture can also be changed symbolically by means of this bill and, as has already been mentioned, hopefully we can also change something by focusing more on it here with limits and consent in sex education. I would say, however, that when we see examples of cases where a woman has been so drunk that she has not been able to say no and there has been an attack, I have the expectation that this law will make a difference. Then I'll sign for it. Of course, we are not in line with this, and in the SF we would also really like to have a rape unit in the police who is dealing with these cases, so that there are more resources to investigate and the accusations are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122841	Well, I'm also looking forward to the Minister of Justice calling for some negotiations again. It may be that the Minister of Justice has called again and I haven't written it into my calendar. I won't be able to rule that out. But I hope that we can perhaps also look at it in relation to public criminal records, where, unfortunately, a majority in this Chamber has not yet been able to be patterned.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122913	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120122917	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party supports this legislation. If it were just words and symbols, we could have made a very short version. Then we could have just changed the word and written "concert" where it says "receipt." Of course, it is not, and hence my example from before about three or four boys with a different ethnic background from Danish, who force a young girl into a basement shaft or into a backyard and laugh at her; she does not say no, they do not violence on her. Will they be convicted of rape on the basis of current legislation? It's not safe. Will they be convicted of rape on the basis of the new legislation? Yes, it is very conceivable that they will. Is this law really gonna make a difference? Yes, it is. That means that some of what is not criminal today is criminal. That is the whole basis of this legislation. We are simply moving the framework of what is criminal. Nowadays, violence or coercion is required, or the victim must have scratch marks or have to shout and scream, and must almost also be able to show that it has been done before the victim can be recognised that it was a rape. Now it is the case that in such a case as I gave an example of, it will most likely be regarded as a rape. Does the rapporteur agree that this is a real and significant difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123036	I sincerely hope that the Socialist rapporteur is right. That's what we're gonna have to wait and see when these trials have been going on. What I noticed, and what I also answered in relation to it, was that Eva Smith was out to say that this consent requirement does not change anything in rape cases. That is what I referred to. It is not because the Danish People's Party is not in favour of symbolic legislation. We certainly do, because it sends out a signal, as the Socialist rapporteur also said in his speech. It also helps to create a cultural change that really takes this seriously, and I think that is a good thing. However, I would like the government and the Socialist rapporteur to be more involved in the immediate expulsions of rapists and punishments, as has also been said earlier today, and to ensure that the victims also received some help, and that extra care was taken of them, so that their sense of justice... And now the President has risen, and then I stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123148	That is because time was exceeded, but fortunately there is a chance for a second round for Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123154	We are also very constructively involved in the discussion of this bill. I'm just gonna have to arrest this whole thing with the fact that you've been talking to a professor, and then you think it's all about semantics. This is a real change in something. Something that is not criminal today is being criminalized. I don't think you should talk that down. There is every reason to celebrate that we are actually here today. It is a historic moment here in Parliament and I am simply glad that one party after another agrees that not only is there a need to change its mind, so that it is now called consent, but that many of these abuses and rapes are actually being made what they are, namely rapes, and thus criminalise them. It's about time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123243	Well, rape is criminal. It is not for anyone to be raped or sexually assaulted, in other words, something that is contrary to their will. What is in it is that it is difficult to lift the burden of proof, and there we must hope that this bill can move something. I am glad that we in the Danish People's Party have helped to make the Socialist rapporteur happy, because we are, of course, voting in favour of the bill. We are in complete agreement. We think that the process could have been different, and that has been mentioned because it was, you might say, a work that began under the previous government. So there has been broad support in the Folketing to find a solution in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123328	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123331	I would also like to begin by discussing whether this is symbolic policy, which is why I would like to take an example which the rapporteur may be familiar with, because it comes from our constituency, from Esbjerg, where a taxi driver is accused of having raped a girl who has a three-six-six-seven-six-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-s-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-say. It's a wonder she's conscious at all. It's actually where it's starting to be life-threatening and very dangerous. I'm gonna tell you this case ended with an acquittal. The victim couldn't say yes or no. Will this new legislation be able to get such a coincidence better? I would like an answer which is a yes or no and a justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123420	Now it's the case with law that it's incredibly difficult when you're standing in a courtroom where it's words against words. But I sincerely hope that this will have a great effect, and we can see that at some point. I hope we get an evaluation of this after a few years, so we can see that it has moved significantly. I hope so. However, things must be linked, including in relation to the prosecution authority and the courts and also the level of punishment. There, too, we can see that today's penalties are far too low. And then I think we should have looked at compensation for the victims, and I also think we should have looked at whether public criminal record should be compulsory when working with people who have a disability or who work in health care or elsewhere. I think that's logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123517	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123519	I can say that the correct answer is: yes, it will be easier with the new legislation to get rid of such a case because it will have the presumption against it that a consent may have been given when you are so full. So this legislation is definitely going to mean something. Finally, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that this, when the consent law was introduced in Sweden, actually led to several judgments. That is to say, it has a meaning, whether it is consent or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123550	I'm not saying it doesn't matter. I say that we are also sending a signal with this legislation. It's symbol legislation. I think it is very good and we should evaluate it. But now the rapporteur knows very well that I am not a legal rapporteur, so in relation to being down in matter and knowing what it looks like in Sweden or Norway, I am sure that the SF's rapporteur, who is the legal rapporteur, is much deeper into that part. However, in relation to the second part, which concerns the area of disability, I am at the bottom of the list, so I would really like to discuss it further with Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123627	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123631	Thank you. I would also like to discuss this about the symbol. In fact, I also think that the rapporteur is right, there is a great deal of symbol in it. In other words, what Mrs Karina Lorentzen says is quite correct: it has led to more sentences in several countries. There is a very high probability that many of the acquittals we have seen in recent years would have led to conviction if you had this legislation. But it also sends a signal to young people about what is right and wrong. And when we discuss how we define rape, we also discuss how to behave towards each other. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that sending out a very clear signal that there should be active consent from both parties and that people should not just be touched, even if they are passive, is an important, important signal to be sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123722	But I think this law is important or we would not vote in favour either. As I said, we think the process has been a disgrace. Having said that, however, I am simply referring to a professor of whom I found an article and who writes that it will not change much for either the victim, the accused or the court that a new rape law based on consent is now being introduced. Eva Smith, former law professor at the University of Copenhagen, assesses this. And she writes that it's hard for her to see that it's going to rock awful much. That is the article on which I have been based, because I think that when you are a former professor of law, you have to be very wise in this area. But I sincerely hope again, as I say, that this, in addition to the symbol, the signal and these things, can also be clearly felt in relation to convictions, so we see that we are strengthening the legal certainty of the victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123823	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123824	I am glad that the Danish People's Party basically votes in favour and is in favour, and that they can also see the symbol that it is something that will probably also guide our behaviour, and not just something that will guide our courts. But I just have to challenge the fact that one law professor's attitude can be taken, override everyone else's and say, moreover, that it will have no effect. After all, we have described in detail in the comments what effect it should have in the courts, namely that you have to, and that is what is at the heart of it, and that is why it will of course change something else, otherwise we will have to come after them again, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120123925	Yes, that is the case with courts; sometimes you want to come after them, even when you think that the punishments that are sometimes given are far too low. So I am fully in and look forward to having the legislation evaluated at some point. Well, I hope that your agreement, which you have made, also makes an evaluation, so that you get a look at this, and that you look at the effect, and that you look at what effect it has had in relation to the past. And I hope that you will have an effect. And I am not saying that it will not give effect to that is not what I am saying, because then the rapporteur has completely misunderstood me. It is always important to send out signals and to help create some cultural change with legislation in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124014	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Karina Adsbøl Sometimes you have to be careful not to be a substitute). It is important that the parties are represented. The next party that will now be represented on the platform is the Radical Left. This is Mrs. Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124034	Thank you very much. I'd like to start by saying hello to you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. He has been a negotiator for the Radical Left on this issue and would very much have liked to have been here today, but unfortunately he could not. This means that, as rapporteur on equality, I am fortunate enough to be here today. On 1 September 2020 was an historic day, for it was the day that the agreement on a consent-based rape clause in the criminal code landed. L 85 is a historic bill. Today is an historic day. For in the future, sex will be something that requires the consent of both parties. Well, that may sound logical. One would think that was already the case today, but it is not with the law that we have. Today we are being punished for rape if we have forced sexual intercourse with violence or threats of violence, but we are changing that now. We are correcting the legal certainty of the rape victims, and it is time. But we couldn't have done this without help. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank the many victims who have made themselves known and told their stories in recent years. You have already been subjected to violent and traumatizing attacks, yet you have found the courage and strength to stand up publicly and tell your stories. I have deep respect and am full of admiration for your courage. Your reports have been indispensable to create the political pressure that makes us stand here today. Thank you. Your stories have not been in vain. During one in four rapes are reported. During one in five notifications, a judgment will be handed down. And this clearly testifies to disastrous legal certainty for a group of people who have already undergone one of the most traumatic attacks one can imagine. What we are doing today, and when a majority pushes the green button later, the least we can do from a political point of view is to show that both society and the judicial system take the victims seriously. I think we'll look back on this day and wonder why it wasn't until 2020 that we got this legislation. In the Radical Left, we look forward with pride and joy to being able to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124334	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124345	Thank you for the floor. I think I called it a legal landmark when the SF, together with the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats, could present this new agreement on consent-based legislation. I still think so, and I am very proud that we can deal with the bill here today. The road here has been long and wrinkled. Personally, I started in 2010 by drawing attention to the discrimination in the rape centres, where aid simply depended on the postal code in which you lived. We got that right. We got better access to the offers. Then the SF followed up with several suggestions to amend the penal code. It was in 2014, 2015 and 2016. At that time, it was about negligent rape, which was the concept that existed in Norway, and there were plenty of suggestions for improvements to, among others. the assistance system and to ensure video interrogation of the victims so that they would not have to repeat the vile abuses that they had been subjected to over and over again. And so today we are debating the proposal for a consent law, which became possible with a new majority after the change of government last year, and now it also seems to have broad support in this Chamber. I think it is historic that we are amending a law which is largely similar to the one put forward in 1930 when the penal code came into being. We have, among other things. Because there have been strong women's organisations and strong individuals such as Kirstine Holst and Eva Aagaard, who have tirelessly told the victims' stories, have argued and demanded new legislation. Thank you. To the victims, I would say, we have heard you. Now we change the law, so only yes means yes. If there is no consent, then it is a rape, and it is also true in relationships, and we finally make it clear that if the victim freezes, which is a very common reaction I think it happens in up to 70%. of the cases, some studies show that there simply cannot be consent, then it is a rape. Too many people expect that the perfect victim is one who has tried to bite and beat and kick and shout, and unfortunately that is not the case. Many people find themselves in a state of coldness and are unable to resist, and so the case falls in the courts today, because there is a requirement to resign. That's what it's gonna give a tsunami of verdicts? No, I don't think so, but it's going to prevent the worst acquittals. We can see this in Sweden, where more sentences are passed after they have changed the law. Is this going to give men less legal certainty? No, there is still a need to lift away proof that there was no consent if rape is to be condemned. Will that change our view of sex? Yeah, I sure hope it does. Hopefully, the law will make future and present generations more aware that only consent is good enough. Hopefully, this will create a much-needed change in culture and a general change in attitudes in society, with a greater focus on respect for other people's borders and the right to decide over their own bodies. Is this gonna cause trouble? Yeah, maybe it does. This is a major change for some, and you can see that in the consultation answers, but you can also see it in the public debate. Some think it's too much some think it's too little. That is why I think it is wise for us to do what some of the consultation answers point to, namely that we are running campaigns in connection with the new legislation and telling about it. So are we done talking about rape? No, I don't think we are. Because legislation isn't going to work if the police don't get better at meeting the victims and investigating the cases, so they're holding up in court, and that's exactly why we need some special units in the police so they'll be better at working on these cases. Special units can ensure that those who meet the victims, for example: have knowledge of trauma, for then they know that it is common for a rape victim to act illogically after a rape, for example. by staying in the perpetrator's apartment after the rape. It is an ordinary trauma reaction, and it is not necessarily a sign that it was not a rape or something that makes the victim untrustworthy. There is a great need, it shows the police's own figures, because every other victim feels badly met by the police. That needs to be corrected. So let's get those units, so hopefully we don't have to see such a case as Eva Aagaard's case again, where she's being counted from reporting it when she stood at the police counter, or that we don't have to see again that not all the investigation steps are taken, as happened in Kirstine Holst's case, where semen and blood stains are never investigated on her clothes. This might have supported her explanation, but it could have also strengthened the rejection of the case. It was just never investigated. And let us look towards Sweden, where they actually already have special units with 350 employees. That's what I call an investment in the victims. And I can't believe that in Denmark we've got units for trucks and animals before we've got it for the victims of rape. And, of course, we need to support the victims in many other ways. I'm not gonna tire you guys out here. I'm just saying that work isn't over, it's only just starting, but it shouldn't take away the joy from us on this historic day when we finally get legislation on consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124919	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120124929	Thank you. What a lovely day it is today, and even the sun shines. My mother's generation of women fought for the right to free abortion. My generation of women have fought for a consent law. Both are about the right to our own body, and both are battles that have initially met massive resistance, both at Christiansborg and in the population. Both are evidence that when we are many enough, we can bring about the changes that bring us closer to a society of equality and equality. Fortunately, today we see the right to free abortion as something quite natural. We shall also do so with consent. The Enhedslisten has put forward the proposal to introduce consent-based rape legislation in the Folketing three times. Two legal rapporteurs from the Enhedslisten have stood before me in favour of the proposal that we are finally debating today, and of course I have not been able to look at the clips from the debates in the Parliamentary Assembly. It was in many ways an uplifting experience that I can only recommend because the debates show how far we have come and how great a change we have created since Enhedslisten put forward the proposal for the first time in 2017. We've been killing myths about NemID, about reversal of the burden of proof, about false reviews. We have gone from being a small minority, sometimes ridiculed, to being a majority, as it now appears, is a very large majority, which supports a consent law. So today is a really big day for many of us. Today is an historic day, and we all owe it to us in here to say a great thank you: thank you to Kristine, thanks to Amalie, thanks to Liva, thanks to Louise, thanks to Marie, thanks to Emilie, thanks to Eva, thanks to Bolette, and thanks to all of you who have courageously stood up and told your stories. We owe a heartfelt thanks to all of you, whose names we and the public do not know, but who have fought for this law that has put your name on petitions that have gone to demonstrations. I would like to say to you: You did not go in vain. The amendment we are discussing today is important because our laws are at the heart of attitudes and culture. We must from a consent law to a culture of consent. We must ensure that this law is anchored in the police and the judicial system so that no victims of rape are let down in the system. The unitary list will extend the right of victims of rape to aid lawyers so that, before reporting rape, you already have the right to an aid lawyer. We demand special police units to deal with partner violence and rape, and we propose that judges undergo special training before they are allowed to judge rape cases. However, although there is still much to be done in our legal system, there is no doubt that the legislative proposal we are debating today significantly improves the equality and legal status of rape victims. We are given a law that more reflects the situations of violence in reality, because it removes focus from the use of violence, coercion and threats, and what the victim did to resist the abuse, instead of being about that when you have sex, everyone involved must be involved in the idea that it is a good idea, otherwise it is rape. This means that the law will protect those women who live in a violent and controlling relationship, where the unequal power conditions naturally follow into the bedroom. The requirement of consent shall apply without exceptions. It is important for me to emphasise: without exceptions. And the law will protect the many victims who react by freezing in the abuse situation because inaction is always a presumption against consent. I know somebody's trying to make this very difficult, but it's not. In all its simplicity, consent means making sure that the person you want to have sex with also wants to have sex with you. After all, it is amazing that it is only something that will be reflected in Danish legislation in 2020. But today we are moving fence posts for the rights of rape victims, and we are guaranteeing the right to own bodies. Enhedslisten can very warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125420	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125425	Thank you. Now I have stood and signed for the approval of the bourgeois parties, and then it seems quite strange not to take this opportunity too to thank Enhedslisten, thanks to the SF, thanks to the Radicals. So thank you to Enhedslisten for bringing this forward for a long, long time. Thank you to all the women who have stood up. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for burning for this case. And then this is going to seem so very socialist, but now I'm just saying it anyway: thank our Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, for making it a central focus of what a new government should be able to deliver on. Because it means something. Thank you to our Justice Minister, Nick Hækkerup, for helping to make this legislation. Because it means something. It's moving something. It's important. This is where you can feel that politics actually makes a real difference. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125525	I'd like to say you're welcome. But it's actually been a lot uphill, so maybe you're welcome. I am very pleased that the Social Democrats were listening and that in the Social Democrats you supported the resolutions that we tabled in the Enhedslisten. You did that just before the election. We were very, very happy about that. I am also pleased that we managed to get the sentence into the understanding paper on which this agreement is based. So I think that is just an example of very good cooperation, which I hope will continue far into the police negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125555	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125558	I think it's really nice too. You're also allowed to be a little fluffy on such a day, because it's actually important. But when it comes to e.g. to secure those resources, as I also asked Mr. Jeppe Bruus, I'd like to ask you a question. It's not just passing a law. I mean, the police need the right resources. It's also important that they have the right training to handle these cases. That is what I mentioned before I have experienced with a family member, where it is not my experience that you have the right skills everywhere to deal with it. There is a public prosecutor who must have provided funds and there are courts who must have provided funds. After all, we are seeing today, and I think it is simply a question of resources that you see that 400 out of 500 cases never get to court. Will the Enhedslisten help ensure that those resources are also added so that this bill will have its best impact out in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125705	Yes, we would like to, and sir. Jens Rohde is quite right that we can be a little fluffy today, but now I'm gonna try to get down a little bit, even though it's hard. I do not think this is just a resource issue. It is also a question of knowledge, and that is why police training plays a huge role in this. Unfortunately, police education has become a very, very short education, and it is no longer a professional bachelor's degree. We are very sorry about this in the Enhedslisten, and we actually believe that some of what could really lift this was that we gave our dear police officers a little more training on how to deal with rape victims. It is the case that in the good old days you had an entire semester where you were taught this, and now the Center for Rape Victims teaches it on two lessons in an entire police education. That is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125751	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Jens Rohde further a brief comment? No. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120125802	Thank you so much. It is difficult to come after the speech that has just been made. But congratulations to all those who have fought for this legislation, and many have done so. It's a big day today. It should not be a secret that we in the Conservative People's Party welcome the fact that this time there has been a nuanced proposal on the issue of a consent-based rape clause. We have rejected the last two motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten, because we wanted to make sure that a consent law was thoroughly worked out and debated, and it was extremely important for us that we also got the foreign experience in this area, and we got that, especially from England and Sweden. I personally have had quite a few prejudices about the term consent. I had the idea that it had something to do with contracts and everything else to do, and that when it came from Sweden, at least nothing should be done that reminded me of it. However, I was much wiser on this and, in fact, I think it is an excellent provision that has been formulated here in legislation. We would also make sure that a consent law covered the gap that has caused many to give up trying their case in court. We wanted to make sure that a change in the penal code gives justice to those who have been victims of involuntary sexual acts. Because in the Conservative People's Party, we have long been concerned about strengthening the understanding that rape is a gross abuse of sexual self-determination and sexual integrity, and we have been concerned that legislation must support the reporting and prosecution of an abuse. When our President, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Minister of Justice, confirmed this by significantly increasing the penalty for rape and, as the Minister of Justice, he launched much of the work that has preceded the bill we are discussing today, and we are proud of that. And, as he has said on several occasions, legislation is important, high penalties are important, but it is also important to do something to change culture and to do something about educating policemen to question women who are raped much better than they are today. So a change in culture is also important in this context. That is why we are pleased today to see a consent-based rape clause that makes it clear that all sexual acts other than those based on voluntary consent are rape and are punishable as rape. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal for a consent-based rape clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130126	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130133	Thank you. Actually, I thought that was a really nice speech by Mr. Knox. Naser Khader. It was also a very fine description of the developments that have taken place. So I thought it was really good. I spoke a little about this in my rapporteur's speech, but I would also like to say it here, because I also think that there is a reason to sign Mr Beazley's report. Søren Pape in order at the time to get the work going, which can now be translated into legislation, in which we can all gradually see ourselves. I think that is also worth recognising here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130157	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130159	I'll thank you very much and pass on my greetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130208	That does not give rise to any other comment. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130228	Thank you. Too many women are raped and far too few perpetrators are convicted. This testifies to the fact that, as a society, we have a problem which we politicians must take seriously and which we must address. The Criminal Code Council recommends that Denmark should have a rape clause based on voluntary service. It should be a matter of course that sex between two or more people is voluntary. Forced is rape. However, according to the Criminal Law Council, this is not clear enough in current legislation. It should be. And if a voluntary provision can get more rapists convicted, that would be a good thing. The desire of the vast majority of the Criminal Law Council was to avoid criminalising a sexual behavior that will be regarded by many as what they call natural and usual, but that at the same time we should ensure that it becomes absolutely clear that sexual relations must always be voluntary. Only 1 out of the 11 members of the Criminal Code Council did not recommend it. On the other hand, this one member recommended consent where the obligation for clarification rests with the person who initiates the intercourse. I agree with the 10 members of the Criminal Code Council and disagree with number 11. The consent is a mess that runs the risk of criminalising completely natural sexual relations and experiences between people. As was evident from the press conference at the presentation of the government and left agreement on a consent law, it ends quickly in a caricature. And rape is not funny, and sex under compulsion is not to be caricatured. The draft law we are discussing today confuses the voluntary provision of the majority with the use of the word consent by the minority. Thankfully, the most inappropriate aspects of a consent clause have been removed from today's draft law. However, the fact is that the word consent remains. Common people undoubtedly distance themselves from sexual abuse, but few will probably link normal sexual activity, possibly between partners or husbands, with active consent. Sex can be awkward, confused, unspoken and immediate. It can come about in more or less random ways, and the course of action does not always have to be clear, even for those involved. Sex is like a dance, and probably has a dance rules that you don't break, but you don't ask permission to put one foot down after another without ruining the dance along the way. I lack a reasonable explanation as to why the government and its supporting parties hold to the somewhat confusing concept of consent, which creates ambiguity and which risks endangering both men and women's legal certainty. In new citizens, we believe that the majority of the Criminal Law Council had proposed the right balance between punishment and legal certainty. However, I can also read in the draft law, and in particular in the comments to the draft law, that there are others who have influenced the bill, who have had the same concern over a mere consent clause, and who also see the challenges of criminalising ordinary sexual behaviour between people who may have lived together for many years, who have a more quiet sex life and who, I hope, should not be at risk of feeling fear of being reported for rape. Against this backdrop, of course, we hope that during the committee procedure we will be able to clarify and ensure that the right balance is present in this legislative proposal. After all, since we were not part of the debate and are not part of the agreement, we have not had the opportunity to hear about the process and ask questions about the things we would like to ask about. We will, of course, do this in connection with the work of the committee, as we usually do in all other cases. Fewer women must be raped, more rapists must be convicted, but we must not compromise on legal certainty. That must be our common goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130717	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130721	Thank you. I always note it when Mrs Pernille Vermund says that we should not compromise on legal certainty, because it sometimes happens to new citizens. I simply cannot understand, and perhaps Mrs Pernille Vermund can explain to me how voluntaryness is a more clear concept than the concept of consent, because consent is precisely clear: it is an active act; there must be active consent. The concept of voluntary service, on the other hand, is a little more muddy, and in some way it is more like what we have today. But perhaps Mrs Pernille Vermund can explain to me what makes the concept of freedom so clear, because it is not really clear to so many others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130801	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130807	I would like to give a concrete example. When we talk about voluntaryness or consent, we are, of course, over in something that is closely related. We often talk about situations where it is partner violence and where it is not as obvious as in the examples that have been mentioned earlier today and which all of us probably should or should have been convicted of rape. So, as I said earlier, the example of a woman so incredibly drunk that she cannot do anything is already covered by the law. Why he doesn't get convicted is hard to say. But in this situation, we typically talk about partner violence or partner rape. If, after an argument with my husband who's been drinking a few glasses of red wine along the way, I lie in bed next to him with my back to him and maybe a little close to him, have I consented? Did I volunteer to lie in bed? If we have sex and I wake up the next morning thinking that's not really what I wanted, can I accuse him of rape? Does he risk being a rapist? These are some of the questions I would like to clarify, because I do not want to risk a situation where ordinary men become rapists.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130915	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130919	Well, I can clarify that to Mrs Pernille Vermund, I hope immediately. The law states that consent must be given in the immediate context of the sexual act. So it's kind of in place. But I don't think I'm getting an answer, because how is Mrs. Pernille Vermund's example about passive sex, which, I suppose, is something other than the pass-on, an explanation for the fact that the concept of voluntary service is more clear? The concept of voluntary service is, after all, a passive concept. After all, the concept of voluntary service does not protect women who are raped in their relationships. It does the concept of consent because consent is something you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130956	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120130959	When I lie in bed with my husband as in the example before and am passive in the situation, the comments on the bill here say that it is not covered. That is probably because it is a type of voluntaryness which is not a direct consent, and that is why I say that these things are being mixed up a little in the draft law, and they also give us an extra need to ask where the limit lies when the comments on the draft law both use the word consent and at the same time have a degree of voluntaryness.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131032	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131045	Thank you. I come in from the sidelines to this debate because I do not normally act as a legal rapporteur. However, it also offers opportunities to illustrate how you have experienced this debate and to illustrate what might be the reason why you had certain opinions in the past on the basis of the experiences you had as a not central part of the debate. When I was previously presented with views about having a consent-based rape law, I noticed that there were also legal experts who said that there was a risk that this would lead to a reversal of the burden of proof. For example: the President of the Court of Justice said that in practice it could lead to a reversal of the burden of proof, even if that was not the intention behind it. And that's the kind of thing that affected me back then. If I can say today that we are voting in favour of this bill, it is because I have been reassured that that is not the case and that is not what it will lead to. One might say that if that comfort had happened in the past, we could also have said in the past: we are actually in favour of this. Because we fully agree that the prerequisite for adult people having sex together must be that both parties want it. The only question is: how do you prove that one did not want to and that the person was therefore taken by force or unwanted? I can also repeat the concerns that Mrs Pernille Vermund has about what the prerequisite is for consent, because we do not need to have been in the game between the sexes for many years in order to have discovered that one party sometimes wants to be seduced. This seduction may well have the character of the other party being fervent in its way of wanting to have sex, while the first party more must be receiving. And if it is a wish for both, there is, of course, one must believe, a consent, although it is not expressed very clearly. However, I believe that we have succeeded in drafting the legislative proposal in a way that takes account of these situations, and that is why we can vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131336	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131341	Thank you. I would actually like to say something of what is also apparent from the draft law, which is essential in those examples. It is that in an equal relationship between two parties there may be different ways of acting. But there may also be conditions which are characterised by the fact that it is not equal and which are characterised by violence, intimidation, psychological terror. And there, in this draft law, we have actually done something about saying that where there is no equality, there must naturally be some other expectation of that consent. If you're gonna put it that way. In fact, I think it is a little important to come forward here, including in the debate on what is normal and what is not normal, because there are too many people living in unequal conditions who are subjected to rape today and who never have a Chineseman's chance of getting it recognised. And it is very, very important that we also get put in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131438	Well, that sounds just right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131442	There are no more brief comments, so we now thank the rapporteur. And then it's the Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131454	Thank you for the very, very broad support for the bill. With some success, all members of the Folketing will be able to vote in favour of the draft law for the third reading and thus the final adoption. It will be good and it will be important and it will be right. This would be a good thing, because in this way we are marking that the anchoring and changing of the criminal area is something that we all care about, and it will help to say that here we are pushing on the part of the Danish Parliament, in addition to adopting the legislation, also to the perception that must be in society of the right of women, first and foremost, to decide over their own bodies. That is why we should be grateful for the broad support. We must get away from the fact that what constitutes rape is specially listed coercive measures and that what matters is whether the person participates in the intercourse of his or her own free will. And that's exactly what we're getting to with this legislation. Then a number of issues have been raised which are being worked on in different places. Let me just point out that at least a number of people have said that the legislation is a framework. But are there the resources of the police that are needed and are there the methods of the police and the prosecution that are needed to ensure that we actually get these cases of rape prosecuted effectively? This is something that is being worked on at different levels. The agreement that we will hopefully be able to conclude before long on the police and prosecutor's office for the coming years has a focus on precisely the issues of rape, but should also lead to additional resources being allocated to both the police and the prosecutor's office, so that the possibility of ensuring effective prosecution is improved, just as we have already introduced and implemented minimum procedural steps in the police. So, in the situation where there is a potential rape, there are some procedural steps that need to be taken to ensure that the case is pursued in the best possible way, but also to ensure that the victim as there is is is properly treated, as well as working with a trauma psychological catalogue to ensure that there is the understanding that the people who come in and who have been raped can react differently. You have to understand their response and you have to be able to deal with them, even if the situations can be different, just as we have to work on continuing education. All this is around, but what we are doing today is taking a huge step on the issue of the right to self-determination over our own bodies and to ensure that the decisive forward is whether people participate in intercourse of their own free will. So thank you very much for the broad support I very, very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131817	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131821	Thank you. When you, like me, have been in the European Parliament for ten years, you will be infected by the Bacille, which says that it is an end in itself to create a broad settlement. Therefore, when you hear that the bourgeois parties want to vote in favour and express great pleasure at this bill, I think the Minister of Justice may owe an answer to why in the world they are not part of the settlement and have been involved in the negotiations, what I must understand they have not been.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131859	It was, among other things. because the author's party wanted that design. In other words, being part of the circle behind the understanding paper naturally gives a privileged opportunity to be present in the negotiations covered by the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131917	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131921	After all, I did not take part in the negotiations because I am not a legal rapporteur, but I have never heard of the Radical Left saying that other parties should be excluded. If it is up to believers, it will come up as a discussion in the Radical Left, because that can never be the case, and I have never heard of the Radical Left having had the idea that there should be no broad conciliation. So I would be very surprised if our legal rapporteur had demanded that the bourgeois should not be involved. But let's just leave it alone. The Minister of Justice says police and prosecution. Where are the resources of the courts in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120131959	In any case, it can be said, without being too drunk in any way whatsoever, that the author's party did not argue in favour... Excuse me, Minister of Justice, we have, as everyone can hear, a lot of noise from outside, so if you can raise your voice without turning into shouting, that would be very good). I'll do my utmost to try to drown out those who are pounding out there. The first question was: why was privileged access granted beyond the part of the understanding paper, and in any case there was no expressed desire for these negotiations to be extended beyond the scope of the negotiations. Then there was the question: What about the courts? And it is absolutely right that we also have a resource problem in the courts in general, which needs to be dealt with. Now we are going to address it in connection with the agreement on the police and prosecutor's office, but it also needs to be dealt with when we have to discuss the economy of the courts in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132058	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132106	That went fast. I need to hear about something from the Minister of Justice. Rape is, after all, such a terrible and terrible act that can be committed, and so I would like to hear: we have some people in our society who need protection from others, including staff on accommodation and staff at hospitals and staff at home care and elsewhere. Because, as I said just now from the platform, there is currently a story going on at Ritzau, and this is about a girl who has been raped in the psychiatric section by an employee. So I would like to know whether the Minister of Justice will be in favour of this being different. Today, of course, it is a criminal law provision, but should it not be compulsory to obtain criminal records when working with people who need one in their daily lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132202	As the questioner knows, this is one of the things we are also looking at in a different context, among other things. In the case of driving madness, that is to say, the extension of what is recorded on the private criminal record and which can then be obtained, in connection with the fact that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. I'm gonna do an appointment or something. So that is certainly something that it is also relevant to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132220	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132226	This is something I have been working for for many years, and then you can get a little impatient as rapporteur, but you continue to work. The last answer I received from the Minister of Justice was that it would be the Minister of Health and the elderly looking at it with the Minister of Justice. I have been given those answers for quite some time now, so I would like to hear the Minister for Justice when there will be some action behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132254	It is not the case that we give an answer that we will work on that and then we do not do it. I mean, things are in process, and you're right that it's the same in politics as with so much else that everything that doesn't take time takes 15 minutes, and all other things take twice as long as you think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132312	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132316	Thank you. I would actually just like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Justice for a good cooperation on this law, and we in the Enhedslist are very happy that we ended up with a consent law without exceptions and a consent law where inaction is no longer a consent to sex. We are just extremely pleased about that. I would like to thank the Minister for his success. It has been quite natural for us that it is those parties that have supported a consent law all the way through that have been involved in this. And I think it is nice that today it turns out that there are several parties backing up, but if they had perhaps sent a small text or e-mail a little sooner that they had changed their mind about a consent law, then perhaps the negotiations could have been wider.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132406	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132409	But I also think that we have had a very good cooperation on legislation here. If it turns out that there are other parties that are as positive as they are, I also think that we should use the further process because it is not the end of the committee's work yet to look at some of the issues that may be. It has been pointed out below that it might be worth considering whether the level of punishment is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132434	Then we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132441	Well, it's in relation to the process where it turns into a pure red deal without the blue parties, which otherwise would like to be part of this. There I understand from the Minister for Justice that it is because something has been done in the understanding paper, and then it had to end this way. I can understand from what Mrs Rosa Lund says that it is Enhedslisten who has not wanted to do this with other people who have wanted to do it for themselves for some reason, even though the greatest pleasure in politics is when others are convinced of what they have been saying for a long time and want to do the same. Why didn't the government say no to that? Why did the government not say: yes, yes, it says in the understanding paper that we would do together, but we want as broad an agreement as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132534	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132538	Well, I guess so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen can easily understand. Because if you have a parliamentary basis, especially when you have an understanding paper that we have, then there is privileged access. Let us now look at the former government, the VLAK government. That is where we would like to see it, for example. in financial law negotiations give the Danish People's Party special privileged access. That is what led to the Liberal Alliance coming all the way up the tree because it insisted that it should be this group which was the parliamentary basis for dealing with the financial law. And that is an illustration of the fact that, in this situation, we did not turn around and say: what about the Social Democracy, could it be easier to make an agreement with the Social Democracy? It was insisted on saying that this is our parliamentary basis, with all the political consequences that it led to, not least for the author's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132633	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132636	In a financial law context, it is quite clear that the government is afraid to make financial agreements with parties other than their support parties because they are afraid that they will become so angry that they will simply overthrow the government. Was the government here nervous that the Enhedslisten would overthrow the government if the government allowed parties other than the purely red parties to participate in an agreement on a new rape law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132700	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132704	I think that, just for the sake of history writing, we can agree that there are plenty of examples of situations where there is a government that has made agreements, including the Finance Act, across the middle, which has also included parties that were not one's own immediate parliamentary basis. In this situation, it was not a question of being in a process in which Enhedslisten threatened or other parties threatened, but where it was a matter of having a good and constructive process that led to this excellent result, which now allows all the parties of the Folketing to enjoy the joy and fruits of our efforts today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132743	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132747	Thank you for the floor. I would also just like to thank the Minister for a very good cooperation. I'm really glad we've been able to do this together, and now, in connection with this bill, we've talked a lot about a presumption rule and things like that. I think I'm just gonna say to mr. Ole Birk Olesen and others, that perhaps there has also been a strong presumption that you would not support this bill, and it has turned out differently than we thought it would. But it is only gratifying that we can then stand together in this together. What I want to ask is actually the same question that I addressed to the rapporteur of the Left, namely about these people with cognitive and mental disabilities who simply have less access to our legal system. It is not only people who are subjected to abuse by staff, which is what happens, but they are also simply subjected to abuse in places of residence and elsewhere. Will the Minister help to look at how we can ensure equal access to our courts? For the Institute of Human Rights has shown that they do not have it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132852	Yeah, I'd like that. I just think that this is part of the enlightenment of that particular question too, because Mrs Karina Adsbøl asked it earlier that, in fact, in section 218 of the Penal Code, which is not the paragraph we are discussing today, we have a separate criminalisation of the relationship of exploiting a person who is insane or mentally weak. It is independently criminalised in its own paragraph. But I'm quite clear about that, and I think that's what's in the question... that it's not the same thing... that because you have a right, you get it right. That is the second part of what I hear, and there may be a need to look at it. And I certainly think it is relevant to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132939	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120132943	I'd really appreciate that. Because it is about the possibility of using that right, and they do not have it today. We can just see that there are four times the probability that exactly their cases are falling, and they are not going to get a share in compensation either. Because this is something that you have to look for, and there you no longer have an aid lawyer, and it goes without saying that if you have mental and cognitive disabilities, it will also be a difficult process. So I am very glad that the Minister also says that we can have a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133014	I just thought of that as a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133019	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133022	Thank you. After the agreement was concluded, I must admit that I was somewhat concerned about the relationship between voluntaryness and consent, and I talked to several lawyers about this, which was also concerned, but as everyone said, let us now see what happens when the bill comes. And I presented several of them with a thoughtful example, which I also mentioned from the platform today: My husband and I become friends, I go out, get drunk, come home and lie in our double bed, close, perhaps so close that he considers it an invitation. I think it might just be an opportunity for you to get a warmer buttock than you had when you walked in the door whatever. I'll wake up the next morning; we've had sex. I don't think that's where we were, our argument wasn't finished; he thinks so. Will he risk being convicted of rape if I press charges against him with the current legislation? I received the replies of the various lawyers, and I would very much like to hear the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133124	I cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to this, because the example provides us with a good example of some elements that can argue for consent or that there may be no consent. And the judgment of proof is free in the courts. But one can at least say that it is not the case that even where there is total inaction, as I almost understand there is in the example here, there can be no consent. Here, too, it will be based on a concrete assessment, and in that assessment it will naturally be possible to take into account, for example. whether the parties have previously had sex with consent, i.e. what people who have been married for many years could call Wednesday sex, for example. Yes, the answer was no longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133219	Thank you for your answer. So Wednesday sex on a Saturday after a fight and a little alcohol isn't being criminalized at this point ~ so far, so good. And it's somehow a little bit reassuring, all the time that we are also some who are sometimes there. But that is one of the questions that we would like to have clarified in committee and when the Minister starts by saying that this cannot be answered unequivocally, it also shows that there are so many nuances in this, that we should therefore just pay enormous attention to the balance between the rule of law for men and the rule of law for women. So I hope that in the work of the committee we will get a clearer answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133302	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133305	That is true: legal certainty means a great deal. I just think that what should be kept in mind is an issue that we are discussing over here, where the discussion in the old days or in the past and with the current legal situation is a completely different issue of proof. I mean, we need to get to violence, we need to get to coercion, we need to get to other things. Now we're moving over here what's going to be criminal. Of course, it is clear that at the edge of the criminal area, whether it is over here or over there, there will be situations that need to be assessed: is it rape or is it not rape? But there are just a number of the situations that today would be in the grey zone, which will undoubtedly be rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133339	Apparently no one else would like to thank the Minister, so I would like to thank him. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133404	There is no minister in this area. It is Parliament's own responsibility. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal, which will then be dealt with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133421	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is a re-submission of B 43 from last year, which proposes the creation of a three-year attempt at a citizen's thing. The citizen's office should not be given a mandate to table resolutions and legislative proposals, but may make recommendations to the Folketing. At the same time, it is proposed that a fee be paid for participation and that a group of experts be set up to evaluate the system of citizens' rights and, after three years, to assess whether the scheme could be made permanent. The proposal has good intentions and in fact reminds us as parliamentary politicians of our most important task...
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133509	Sorry, we've had a lot of talk over there on that side over there. It quieted down now, so please continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133515	Thanks I also struggle with the drums outside, but I speak a little loudly, and then I hope I get through well. As I said before, the proposal has good intentions and in fact reminds us as parliamentary politicians of our most important task, namely to listen to the people, so that the law follows the lives of the people. In fact, over recent years, the Folketing has also done more to promote the participation of the people in the democratic dialogue. We have introduced a system of citizens' proposals so that 50,000 citizens can require the Folketing to deal with a motion for a resolution here in the Folketing. And the Climate Act has now set up a climate-citizen thing to provide input to the government's green policy in terms of how we can achieve the 2030 objective. These are good initiatives that go beyond the general commitment of parliamentary politicians to seek contact with citizens in their daily work and in the legislative process, and where organisations and stakeholders are consulted prior to the examination of legislative proposals. There are several things today that advocate the fact that our democracy already thrives. We have one of the highest levels of turnout in Europe and a healthy tradition of popular meetings and markings of democracy. We also focus on democratic education, for example. with school elections, and we who work in the Danish Parliament know that there are a great many young people and school classes who show interest in and pass Christiansborg. At the same time, we have regained our confidence in our elected representatives and in social institutions in general. That is why the resolution as such is positive from the point of view of the Socialist Group. At the same time, however, we believe that there are already mechanisms to ensure the democratic dialogue between citizens and politicians, especially with the new initiatives that have been taken over the last few years. Climate bourgeoisie, for example: in many ways the same as what the proposers are proposing here. It is just narrowed to the climate area, which is why I think it would be wise to wait for the evaluation of the climate bourgeoisie before taking a position on the creation of a real citizen's thing. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133731	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133738	Thanks for the feedback • except for the last sentence. Because, as I hear it, the rapporteur says that the Social Democrats actually think that there are good tactics in this and that we will also take a positive look at the experience of the climate bourgeoisie. My question is actually about how the Social Democrats see the process from here. In other words, when should we seriously go in and work on the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133815	My suggestion would then be that at the time when there is an evaluation of the climate bourgeoisie, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will discuss what can then be done afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133826	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133828	Thank you. After all, we have carried out the first climate bourgeoisie and experience is beginning to roll in. Just to be absolutely sure that I have understood it correctly: as soon as there is an experience, a debriefing from the climate-citizen thing about whether it worked or not, it sounds like right now, the Social Democrats are ready to go into a serious examination of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133900	Of course. We only have a desire to have as good contact with the citizens of Denmark as possible, and if the proposal that lies here and what the climate bourgeoisie is contributing can also contribute further to that, then we will look at it with a sympathetic eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120133925	The Socialist rapporteur has explained the content of the motion for a resolution, and it is a motion for a resolution which puts itself in the slippery stream of a number of other proposals, among others. citizens' proposals, citizen consultation, climate panel and other issues, and this is an agenda that former members of the Alternative are pushing on. It is, of course, commendable, and I would like to acknowledge that, and I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the need to find new ways in which the Danes will be consulted, whether they will be heard or not. However, I would like to take this opportunity to promote what I believe is the most effective way of exerting its influence, even if some would regard it as old-fashioned, namely to join a political party. And I'll be happy every time people join a party. I will not be so happy when people change parties or join in and out of many different parties, but it is a personal matter. But when people join and become members somewhere and participate in representative democracy, they help decide who should sit in here and they are, and they have a great influence on it. They can also raise cases. In the Left in my party we have a large degree of membership involvement, and here under our new chairman, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, we are working more strategically on how we can do this to a greater extent. Because there is a great appetite for it, and it is very useful, including in the parliamentary work, to have a hinterland and some members that you can use constructively. So the best way of asserting its influence is, in my view, not to sit in a citizen's thing as proposed here or to sign a citizen's proposal, but to join a political party. And I would prefer it to be my party, but I am also pleased if it is another. So it is a clear call to those who want to help make a difference. This is done by being active in the political parties that we already have. Could we then do what three non-party members want? You could, but we in the Left are not convinced that we should take that step now. We have agreed and think it is a good idea to do something similar in the climate area. However, we, like the Socialists, would like to await the outcome. Have you found the right model? Are the people you bring with you representative? We'd like to wait for that before going down this road. We are also a little worried that, if we create a lot of parallel structures alongside it, even though you can both walk the road with a citizen's thing and be active in a political party • then water down the citizens' desire to join the political parties. So let's think about it a little bit. So on this basis, my conclusion is the same as the Socialist rapporteur, namely that we cannot support the proposal as it stands. But we recognise the thoughts and intentions behind it, and I will not rule out the fact that we can eventually support something similar to this. But not at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134305	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134309	Thank you. Just as we discussed it a year ago, there's a movement going on, isn't there? At first you may be a little skeptical about something, but over time you may begin to see the rationale of it. What I really want to ask the rapporteur, after he has now made a great promotion that people should join political parties, is how the rapporteur thinks it is going. For that, among other things. is the reason for this proposal, is that we are challenged, that is, that democracy is challenged, and we must try to find new tools to get citizens more directly involved in our political decision-making processes. It is not going very well to get people to join the parties. So should we not seize all the opportunities at all to increase the democratic commitment of the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134407	Yes, but the reason why things are not going so well in the political parties could be that we are creating a lot of parallel structures. We have had the discussion earlier on citizens' proposals and other things. And I think a little along the way that citizen's proposal is to keep people a little fooled. Because when people sign online for a citizen's proposal, they have the impression that, yes, it is being dealt with in the Folketing, it is being passed and something is happening. But it's very rare that anything happens. We have a fine debate, but it is very rare that anything happens. I think we should be very careful in here, in this room, not to build up structures that give the impression that you have a lot of influence. And when it comes down to it, we're not willing to listen. I think we should be careful about that, which is why I am a little reluctant to put up a lot of air vomits that citizens can be heard. And when it comes down to it, they're not gonna be heard anyway. I think that's what politicians do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134455	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134458	Where do I want to discuss citizens' proposals?dk with the rapporteur! Because does the criticism not go primarily in the way we accept what comes from the citizens? I guess that's not the citizens' problem. That's our problem, I guess. But what I really want to ask is: when the rapporteur looks out and looks at the places where citizens have actually been used in political processes, then there is clearly positive experience of whether we are looking to France, to Ireland or to East Belgium, or we are looking at city level, and even here in Denmark. What does the rapporteur think about these experiences?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134542	There have been some good experiences such as local democracy in municipal councils and other things where you have youth councils, youth councils and youth councils, and I think that is very, very good. But I also hear that in the citizen's thing that is, as it were, set up under the Climate Act, not everything is working. That is why I think it is reasonable that before taking this step, which also costs some money, we are waiting for the evaluation that is coming. And then, sir... Uffe Elbæk or others will retable the proposal. And then I will not rule out the fact that the Left can end up supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134616	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134628	Thank you, President. One of the beautiful things about the Danish constitution is that it is so easy to navigate in, so easy to understand. It is available, the language is written in plain terms, thus guaranteeing not only that everyone can navigate the basic principles of how the Kingdom of Denmark is governed, but also that we have the free and equal right to vote for the two things that we have known since 1915 and from 1908 to municipal elections. It is a beautiful and fine institution, precisely because it gives everyone the opportunity to participate on a totally equal footing. I believe that the electoral law says that three weeks before the election, there must be an electoral card through the mailbox, and you have the free democratic right to put it in the fireplace and say no or to put it in a ballot box and say yes. It is democracy and it is beautiful. That's what Mr. Uffe Elbæk is not democracy. It is also described as a deliberative democracy, i.e. a non-liberal democracy, because it is based on the fact that you cannot opt it out. In other words, the people who have to make themselves available get the citizen's thing, must join positively. That is to say, if you resign, you are not able to give the view that you are not voting; then you are not counting. It therefore lays the foundations for a totalitarian way of thinking about democracy, because if one wants to show one's opposition attitude to Christiansborg as an institution by simply not voting and thereby ensuring that the turnout is reduced, then it is also a democratic right. But it is not a democratic right contained in the deliberative democracy, as Mr. So Uffe Elbæk subscribes to. This will, of course, be the main reason why potatoes will actually be hyped for the consecrated, who can join Mr. Uffe Elbæk's project and thus be randomly identified. But in reality, chance is controlled, because it requires you to subscribe to the idea itself. If you really have a good time not to be disturbed by all sorts of votes during the period between parliamentary elections, but in fact it seems more important to take care of your business or your family or perhaps to go on a journey... so actually leave the country's leadership to the 179 who have been elected... yes, then you are not welcome in Mr. Elbæk's citizen stuff. Because it requires that you have the time, the desire and even the intellectual profit and the interest to be part of the country's leadership. But what if you don't want to? Then you do not count, and that is a very, very anti-democratic way of looking at a country's leadership. That is why it is a very sad proposal, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk is joining us today, and it will not enjoy the support of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134938	There is a brief comment on Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120134941	Thank you for the historical review. I am actually rather surprised at how the rapporteur has read the proposal. I mean, this is a supplement to the Folketing and to the decision-making room we are all members of here. How can one be opposed to extending the democratic debate and to being inspired by various ways of going to political issues? In other words, to read this proposal and then to conclude that it is an authoritarian and delineating political proposal, which is only for some people, makes me actually quite right. So perhaps I have not quite understood the rapporteur's very wise interpretation of the proposal, yes, I am quite surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135043	I'll try again. The interior design we have today makes it possible for citizens to write on Facebook every day, write reading letters, stand down here and hammer on frying pans, and what do I know? But you also have the opportunity to say: now I have cast my vote, now I surrender the country's leadership to some others who choose to spend their whole lives on the people like Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the undersigned and 177 others in here. That's what Mr. Uffe Elbæk is going to do a thing where only those who wish to be actively involved in everyday life are allowed to decide, because only those who register will then be among the 100 chosen. But what about those who do not want to be involved in the country's leadership other than once every four years? They'll be out of that group. In this way, the deliberative democracy, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk is therefore exponent for, only indictment and only include those who actively want to be a part of this or at least more frequently than the periods during which we have parliamentary elections. And that is an exclusive approach to democracy, which is why I have to say that it is anti-democratic, and we will not be supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135145	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135148	I have realised that the Danish People's Party does not think it a good idea; so that clarity is communicated through. However, if I am going to take the rapporteur seriously, and I would like to do so, I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the experience gained from citizens' things elsewhere in Europe, including at home, among other things. at city level in the City of Copenhagen. Across the world, France and Ireland have been able to raise a much wider political debate, which has had an impact on the legislation that is taking place. So what is the rapporteur's reflection on this experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135228	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135231	Well, there is plenty of access to and more, I think, than there has ever been in the past 171 years, when the constitution has been in force, that as a committed citizen you can interfere in the debate. I don't really think it's ever been easier to get in touch with politicians like sir. Uffe Elbæk, you and our colleagues. You can just go to the Internet on Facebook and on Twitter; we are everywhere just a click, then you are in contact. We do not need some new citizen thing to create some skewed debate where it is then Mr. Uffe Elbæk's proselytes who join and will be among the 100 chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135304	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135313	Thank you. It is rare for something to be more right by being repeated, so I shall confine myself here today to doing Mr Beazley's work. Karsten Lauritzen's words to mine in this discussion. Perhaps it is because you can never quite take all the Left out of an old Left, but I very much agree with the reflections which Mr. Karsten Lauritzen very gifted, I think, indicated from up here. After all, we have an attempt to make, and let us wait for the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135350	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, which is why it is now Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135418	I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Jacob Mark, who is actually our rapporteur on this proposal, and I would like to thank the authors for a good and important proposal on which I would like to explain the SF's position. We think that democracy is something we should continue to work for. Democracy is not a lasting thing; it is something we choose. We must never take democracy for granted, and every time someone tries to kid democracy, we must say no, just as we must constantly expand democracy and our democratic potential. What does that mean? This means, for example, that when someone wants to take the fundamental freedoms away from us, we say no and stand firm. We have chosen one way to rule and lead and think in Denmark and in the free world, which is good and fair for the many. And that is certainly not going to change. But it also means finding new ways of developing democracy and making a citizen thing could be one way. I believe that many people feel that Christiansborg is such a small closed bubble that needs input from the real world; that is at least something we often hear. And although it is underestimated how much consultation processes, deputies, visits and meetings fill, there may be something about the talk. Maybe we can get better at involving ourselves. Perhaps we can get better at hearing what people think between the elections, including those who are not experts in this area. Perhaps we can get better at giving people a sense of responsibility for democracy, so that they do not just tick the ballot box and sit back. With this proposal, it is proposed that such a citizen's thing should be done. It must consist of 100 voluntary citizens drawn randomly for a period of 18 months. The composition of the citizenship shall, as far as possible, reflect a broad and representative sample of the population, including: by ensuring diversity within gender, age, geography and income, and then twice a year it will have to select a political issue that Members want to learn more about and discuss. Members will then participate in a series of consultations involving relevant and different experts. And the citizen's thing should not be given a mandate to make legislative or resolutional proposals in the Folketing, but it should have the opportunity to make concrete recommendations to the Folketing. We think that is a very good balance. On the one hand, you try something new, something engaging, something committing to those people who become part of the citizen's thing. They suddenly become aware of how difficult decision-making processes can actually be and how many considerations need to be taken and balanced against each other. On the other hand, the Folketing and democracy are constantly receiving new oxygen because new citizens are coming in. However, it is still the Folketing that decides, so in this way we do not compromise on the principle of representative democracy. This is a good balance, and we have already adopted it broadly in the Danish Parliament in the area of climate change. That was a strong wish for us, just as I know it was for several of the Members behind this proposal, so we will look forward to following that. However, we believe that we can go further and therefore the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135744	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120135749	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward this proposal, because it is an opportunity, including in this Chamber, to discuss the framework of democracy and the rule of the people. It is basically the case that democracy and the rule of the people are a dynamic size. If we look back to the 1849 Basic Law, it looks significantly different. The democracy that was imagined at the time looks significantly different from what we are seeing today. At that time there was a severe restriction on voting rights. There were seven Fs who had neither the right to vote nor the right to stand as a candidate. I never really remember them, so now I've written them down just in case. The seven f's were: ladies, folk, poor, falcons, fools, criminals and strangers. And we have now also been granted the right to vote and thus to be fully-fledged participants in democracy, and that is basically what lies in the whole question of how we ensure that we constantly extend democracy and extend democratic rights. That is why I think it is a very exciting proposal which the authors of the motion for a resolution are presenting here. For it is basically about how we get people involved in democratic decisions, how we get citizens involved. This is of great importance, especially when we look at the situation we are facing today, when we have a pandemic in which urgent laws have had to be adopted which have not been able to have sufficient thorough consideration in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is always the problem of urgent laws. However, we have also been able to see how this can help to create a greater crisis of confidence between people and legislators, because things are moving fast and people do not always have the feeling that they are in the decisions that are being made. There I think that such a proposal as this about doing a citizen thing could be a good attempt to see whether there are ways of involving the people, ways to be able to take the tough decisions also in relation to the dilemmas that you face as a decision-maker, as a legislator. Is there an opportunity to drag it into a room where you can also experiment with it? That is why I think it is a very good idea to try to see how we can constantly expand democracy and extend democratic rights. It is possible that this is something that needs to be more permanent. It may also turn out that this may not be the way to go. But democracy is a dynamic size that we must constantly work with and constantly develop. I would therefore like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising it, and I would also like to say that we fully support it on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140053	Thank you. I have been allowed to stand here instead of our normal rapporteur, Mai Mercado. The Free Greens have put forward a proposal for the creation of a citizen's thing, and one can only think of that as sympathetic. The involvement of citizens is important, not just for the Conservative People's Party, but for our democracy at all. So we agree with that. Many believe that there is a long way to communicate with us in the Folketing. There are 179, but we all take pride in communicating and answering the enquiries that come and doing the tours we can at all, and coming in and running for everything from citizenship day to culture night. So it is not difficult from our point of view to get in touch with a member of the Folketing. We also already have the system of citizens' proposals, which allows a proposal to be discussed and voted on in the Folketing if there are 50,000 signatures. It also provides access to a living democracy. So in the Conservative People's Party we find that the involvement of citizens today is vivid and dynamic. The proposal, which is a re-submission, may also seem heavy. This applies to its design, with a 3-year programme of selection of 100 people to participate, who are to take up subjects twice and debate and make recommendations, but who do not have any real influence. And this applies to the form of evaluation, which may seem somewhat extensive. I feel a bit like Karsten Lauritzen, who also mentioned this with parallel democratic systems. We must be careful not to develop any systems which, in the end, do not turn out to have any real influence. I can also be afraid that now we have the attempt at the climate bourgeoisie that the lack of responsibility, together with a relatively limited process, can lead to a failure to get the full picture of our decision-making processes in here in the Folketing, when that is how you put this citizen thing up. I am very much in favour of finding new models to involve citizens. But the model that is here is a citizen thing that can choose an assembly. But we have elections every four years, and we are also citizens of this country. This also applies to the municipal system, where elections are also held every four years and where citizens can put forward and put forward their ideas. So we think the initiative is commendable. We always think that we should discuss how to develop our democracy, but the proposal for a citizen's thing cannot be supported by conservatives right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140402	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140405	When you hear the rapporteur from Conservatives, I think two things are being said. One is that it is important that we continue to develop democracy; it is important that we involve the citizens; all that is good. On the other hand, there are a number of sceptical considerations as to whether this is the right model. I would like to make it clear that we have now presented our model based on the experience that is in the world. But the whole intention is that if we're going to go ahead with this, we need to help each other create our own model and make sure that it becomes a model that everyone can see themselves in and gain ownership of. So my question is: what is the Conservative People's Party's reflection on all the good experiences of citizens' things from elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140501	I would just like to answer on my own account as a member.I am very concerned about how we can involve the citizens of the individual communities over municipal self-government and in the Folketing. So I am more concerned about how we get citizens involved in the close things that concern them out there in our society, because I think that is the way we can create engagement. As I have said, we have the climate bourgeoisie, and now we will see what comes of it, and I would also be interested to see how it develops before we proceed with the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140548	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140549	I mean, I have full respect for the fact that you will wait and see what the experience of the climate-citizen thing is. I think that is absolutely fair. But my question to the rapporteur is: if the system works as well as the rapporteur says it does, why is there so much distrust of us politicians and the Folketing, and why are there so few who want to join a political party? It doesn't go so well on either of the two parameters, so if it all works, why do we have the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140625	I don't think I said it's all working either. I still think there is a need for us to take the right democratic development measures. And I can't answer a hundred percent of the questions you ask, because that's also a big question. However, I very much believe that we need to build our democratic system from the bottom up, and that means involving citizens closely in the issues that are now there. With regard to some of the initiatives that I think the rapporteur is asking about how we can move forward with the larger social contributions, I think we can take them in some other forums than in something that is governed by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140706	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140707	I have to admit that it is completely unclear to me where conservatism lies in the Conservative People's Party in this matter, and therefore I would like to hear about the general view of democracy in the Conservative People's Party. I assume that we agree that when we go to the ballot box for a parliamentary election, we in Denmark have a very high turnout compared to other countries, which means that this Parliament reflects the population to a much greater extent than is the case in other countries. Then we have here a citizen's thing where those people who want to live in the absence of having to take part in the leadership of the country will say no. So it will be a certain group of the population who will say yes and in that way could contribute. Where on earth is the democratic legitimacy of this so-called bourgeois thing compared to a Parliament where we have one of the world's highest turnouts? I understand that the left is cheering about this, because those who do their own business, families etc. will not have the opportunity to participate in it. But the fact that you as a Conservative jump along with that galley and you can find even one word of praise to say about it is a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140808-2	Well, I think I was told that we cannot support the proposal as it stands. As far as democratic development is concerned, I still believe that we have a problem with getting people involved. I don't think I'm talking to the segment that the citizen thing might represent, but I actually think it's a problem that we have something that looks like 20%. of the people who do not feel represented in our democracy. I think we have a duty as politicians to take an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140838	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140839	Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Egil Hulgaard says it precisely when he talks about the segment that would be indicted by a citizen's thing. Are we really going to have so-called democratic institutions that only appeal to a particular segment? This is a totalitarian, antidemocratic way of looking at things, as we hear from Mr. Uffe Elbæk and his kinsmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140859	Very square, I don't want to put it. However, I am also concerned about a state intervention in this direction, and that is why I am also talking about that it could be a non-governmental approach to going in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140916	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Egil Hulgaard. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120140924	The aim of this citizenship must be to contribute to information, public debate and the development of new policies. All three things are something we value very much in New Citizens, as they are important elements of a democracy. We know, however, that there are many possibilities in advance for achieving what the authors of the motion for a resolution want. Information has free access to every citizen in that we live in a free, democratic society where the media are diverse and work independently of state power. In addition, all citizens have full access to all communications that take place in the Parliamentary Hall via the Danish Parliament's website. Public debate is already well-helped in society by both social media and various voluntary initiatives in this area. In relation to the development of new policies, it is still the case that every citizen has the opportunity to send proposals to the various parties in the Folketing and thus seek influence. Or you can choose to join a political party. We will have a great many new Members, and we welcome this, and I am particularly pleased that it is not only people who have been in the past in another party, but also people who have not been involved in a political party in the past. You can also join an association that works for the area you are now interested in. So there are already plenty of opportunities, and on that basis we see a publicly funded citizen thing as superfluous, and we therefore do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120141100	No one has asked for a brief comment, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then I see that it must be the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120141119	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate here today. We've discussed this once before about a year ago. The reason why the Greens wanted to table the proposal again was, of course, that some of the arguments we heard last night were that we should now start from the experience of the climate bourgeoisie. The citizen thing is now about to end, so we thought that now the timing was right to discuss it again and see if we could not get this decision- and development process started in relation to making an experiment of a duration of 3 years with a real citizen thing here at Christiansborg, in the Folketing. I looked again at the debate that was a year ago and some of the things that some of my fellow Members said, but as I said myself, are absolutely the same today as at that time. In other words, we see a greater and greater gap of confidence between citizens on the one hand and us politicians on the other. That is one issue. It has not become less significant. The second problem is that we in here across the parties are more and more alike. Many of us have the same educational background and the same social background, and if the diversity that the Folketing would like to reflect is watered down, as we start to resemble each other more and more, then there is a risk that a real political class will be formed, one might call it. The fact that, on the one hand, there is a growing gap in confidence and, on the other, that we, who are now elected in here, have roughly the same educational background and social background makes us deeply concerned. The third problem is that we can see that democracy is under pressure both in the wider world and at home. If you look out in Europe and look at what is happening in Poland and Hungary, or if you look at the United States with what is happening right now, when Trump will not accept an electoral defeat and you go in and undermine the political institutions over and over again, then the democratic institutions are under pressure. Of course, the situation at home is not the same as the one we are experiencing in Europe and in the United States, but I am deeply concerned about the way we, for example. has seen urgent legislation in this Chamber, where I think the democratic processes are bordering on the critical. If we look at some of our democratic institutions as the Ombudsman's institution and the lack of respect surrounding the statements that come from there, then I also think that democracy is under pressure here at home. And at the latest we saw a week ago that Freedom House went out with their big global investigation of what democracy looks like in the world. It was in every way a worrying conclusion they made, namely that out of all the countries of the world - and I think we are up to 193 countries - there were 80 countries where democracy had gone back, and there was only one country where democracy had gone forward, and in all other countries it was the status quo. So it is in this light that the Free Greens believe that we should try to develop new democratic methods in addition to the representative democratic system we have today with the Folketing, in other words that we should try to develop new democratic working methods that will allow us to involve citizens more directly, to strengthen democratic engagement and to have debates that we sometimes have anxieties about in here, which can help to raise the level of political ambition in relation to solutions. That is why we have retabled the proposal for a real citizen's thing, an experiment over three years, in which we would like to involve up to 100 citizens in the sessions. I believe that with the experience we have from abroad, but also locally here from home, it is quite clearly positive. You saw it in France. It was then Macron who used it to deal with an obvious conflict with his own people in relation to the yellow vests: how could one get the dialogue at a different level and in a different framework that makes it possible to deal with the social and economic conflicts that France was in? After all, the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten was quite clear in his analysis that the level of conflict is only increasing in the world and also at home, in view of the fact that we have to tackle very, very violent political issues and priorities. And if we do not have the people with us, we may see some very, very strong social conflicts in the future. That is why we must try to find all the good ways to increase citizens' direct involvement, and a citizen's thing is one of them. Fortunately, we have got citizens' suggestions.dk here at home, and I read and listen to the fact that those who were previously skeptical are beginning to say that it might actually work. Some debates are being held and some questions are being raised which we would not otherwise have had up in this Chamber. Personally, I think that the resolution on the Climate Act itself was the best argument for citizens' proposals being one of the tools that we can use to involve citizens more directly. Now to the citizen thing: I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that I almost felt that the rapporteur read the proposal, as the Devil reads the Bible, and there were a large number of strawmen in understanding the proposal that lies here. What is at least important for me to stress once again is that this is a supplement to the Folketing. The decision-making power lies in here; it is we who must adopt the laws; it is we who must set the direction for Denmark. The citizens' thing is a complement that must help to inspire and which must make recommendations to us in here that we then commit ourselves to dealing with, and hopefully it can increase the level of political ambition, and perhaps the citizen's thing can also come up with ideas that we ourselves did not have. These are, at least, the lessons to be learned from citizens' things, both when used at national level, in France and Ireland, but also at regional level, where, for example, there is a lack of transparency. has been incorporated into the East Belgium system again only with good experience. We have it at city level in as different cities as Gdansk and Madrid and, most recently in Copenhagen, again only with good experience. This has only helped to strengthen the commitment of the citizens, and paradoxically and happily it has helped to strengthen the established democratic institutions, so that people will want to enter politics, which they otherwise did not want to do before. This means that a citizen's thing can help to strengthen the desire to join a political party and the desire to stand up because one has gained an insight into the political work that one did not have before. So this is about helping to strengthen democratic culture, to strengthen the wealth of ideas and to ensure that we avoid an increase in conflict escalation in relation to majorly vulnerable political issues. In short, to strengthen the citizens' desire to take on their democratic authority and become part of a democratic process. So I just want to say thank you for the feedback that has been from the Social Democracy, the Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and Radicals, and then I am well aware that the Danish People's Party absolutely does not think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142054	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142057	In any case, it can be said that the debate has clarified it. This country is so overpatched with government-paid committees of experts, bodies, state-funded NGOs, citizens' groups, and what do I know, which already gives us so-called advice, but which is usually just opinions, views, Mr. Uffe Elbæk. And I think that when one has been elected to the Folketing, one has quite well managed one's own views. So I would say that this is just as usual an attempt by Mr. Uffe Elbæk to advance his own cause under a bloom of fine democratic and pluralistic considerations. When Mr. Uffe Elbæk says that in all the countries he mentions it has only promoted good things, so I have to say: what is the good thing in politics, Mr. Uffe Elbæk? There are no truths in politics. There is only a majority. That's good stuff, precisely because it's Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk's cases, these organs have promoted. So I just want to say that once again Mr. Uffe Elbæk as the anti-democratic he is, and he will only promote the personal matters he has when he can make his own proselytes appear in a glance of some sort of citizen thing or NGO, or what do I know?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142205	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142206	Again: How to respond to it? So it is a position, and it is fair enough that the Danish People's Party believes that I am an anti-Democrat and also believes that this proposal is about cottageing its own political positions. This proposal is party-neutral, and it relates to the rapporteur and then he can sit and smile and look up at the ceiling; we have to look as we would like, but I take the rapporteur seriously and try to understand where it is that the rapporteur is speaking from the point of view of democracy being challenged. And I have not yet heard anyone say that it is not a problem that there is distrust between citizens and politicians, and I do not hear anyone saying that it is not a problem that there are so few people who want to get directly involved in politics. And this is a bid for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142316	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142317	We have noted that and that is a bad offer, sir. Uffe Elbæk. If I may make an alternative offer, where Dansk Folkeparti and Mr. Uffe Elbæk's green people could work together, so perhaps it could be about having more referendums. So, some of the things that really involve the Danes historically have been when we have put the decisions to the Danes. There you have exactly the same legitimacy as we have in the parliamentary elections: you have the opportunity to choose from what you have the option of choosing it for. All regardless of profession, profession, ability, etc. may participate. It's democracy. It is not the forum of the chosen ones. It's democracy. So let me ask, in good faith and in the good tone of mutual understanding: could this be something we could work together on: to have more referendums?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142359	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142400	I can actually say that we can do that. I think it would be interesting to have more referendums, both at local level and at national level. This is a completely different discussion, but it is another example of a tool that we can take up in terms of creating more democratic engagement. And when the rapporteur says that this is a closed party for the chosen ones, I do not think the rapporteur has read the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142434	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142437	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur and the authors of the proposals mention this concern in relation to the increased conflict which exists both here in Denmark and around the world, and that is actually what I would like to touch on a little bit. Is it really not an expression of the fact that we are living in a time when the shouting is something that we have become really good at? It can be either on Facebook or by hitting on some pot lids out at Christiansborg Castle Square. We have become very good at this, and then we have stopped listening to each other. My question is: do the proposers believe that this citizen thing will really help?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142524	That is what experience tells us from the places where citizens have been used. What is the difference between citizens' things and saw us in this Chamber is that in here it is, of course, a blazing conflict between two politicians, such as what we saw just before between myself and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It was the dynamics of conflict that marked it. On the other hand, the principle is that we should seek consensus, and the recommendations that we reach, there should be agreement on a fourth-fifth majority and, of course, there should be a minority who can express their opinion. But these are two very different dynamics; in here and in a citizen's thing. What is also important then is that it is also a democratic education, because it makes you wiser by getting experts to clarify the issues and, on the basis of it, to make its recommendations. There are only good experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142632	No one else has asked for a brief comment. That concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142650	Again, there is no minister in this area, and that is Parliament's own responsibility. I and the other members of the Bureau will listen carefully to the debate and the proposal, which will be dealt with later in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142712	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating today, as the President says, has been tabled by the Danish People's Party with a desire to discuss which flags are to be flagged in front of Christiansborg. The choice of flags is, of course, a matter of principle, which is why it is, of course, also a decision to be taken by the Bureau of Parliament. Because flags are not insignificant. They can symbolize belonging or values. The flags mentioned by the proposers represent international communities of which Denmark is a member and has been a member for many years: the European Union and the United Nations. These are communities that are important to Denmark and as long as we are in them, there may well be occasion to mark it on certain occasions, as is the case with foreign leaders' visits. Now we also have a rainbow flag added. It symbolizes equality for e.g. homo- and bisexual people, and it is not the case that it is associated with a special organisation. It is a flag that is being used as an international signal that we want the people we are talking about here not to be discriminated against or looked down on. The flag has been used all over the world for many decades, and it is used even by the majority of the large Danish companies when there is a pride week here in Denmark. It has been a cause of surprise to some, at least, that the Folketing, as some of the only ones, has not done so in the past. Denmark wants to be a pioneer country in terms of equality and guarantee the right to love and live with the one you want. And that is why it is quite obvious that where the laws are made, you also share in celebrating the day that you also do in many other places. Society is changing all the time, and so is the Folketing. That is why the Bureau considered that it made good sense to mark the desire for equality by displaying this flag on the occasion. In the Social Democratic Party we do not believe that the decision of the Bureau of Parliament should be reversed in this area. We think, and we trust, that the Bureau is the appropriate forum for dealing with this matter. So I can tell you that the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142933	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120142936	Thank you for that, President. Indeed, this debate is linked in a fairly beautiful way to the previous one we have had, namely about the view of democracy. Because this isn't really about Dannebrog; this is about the Folketing. It's about what the Folketing is supposed to be as an institution. I'd just like to know if not Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen agrees that the Folketing must belong to all Danes, regardless of what position one might have on the rainbow flag. And whether it can't be a problem that the Danes, who for various reasons have rational or irrational reasons, have to lie and mess with themselves in contrast to the rainbow flag, can now see the Parliament, which should be all Danes, wrapped just in this flag. - Sir... Lennart Damsbo-Andersen well see that for those people the decision that he is aiming for helps to alienate the Folketing as an institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143031	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143032	Now I think it is a good thing that the author of the motion for a resolution is actually speaking in the debate on democracy, because that is precisely the option that one has: if one is unhappy with it, then next time there are elections, in two and a half years' time, one can go to the ballot boxes and vote for parties that are against the pride flag hanging out here in front of Christiansborg. That's the opportunity you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143055	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143056	But it's not democratic, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, in the sense that the Folketing should be above what one has chosen. I'm not guessing that sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen seems that because the Folketing in this period belongs to the left wing, it would be natural, for example. to celebrate May 1st with red tabs. Well, then, I'd certainly like to hear from Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says it clearly. I mean, I feel quite convinced that we agree that the Folketing as an institution must be politically neutral, as is the case with the courts, as with the royal house and a number of other institutions in this country. It must be the case that you feel ownership of them, no matter what a cross you put when you go to the ballot boxes. And I'd like to hear about that, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen does not agree with that because it was the opposite he said just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143139	I fully agree that the Folketing must be democratic. I also think it is a democratic idea that, on the days when we celebrate equality for people, we choose to raise the Rainbow flag and that it is the Bureau that takes the decision by the majority that is now in the Bureau at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143200	The next brief remark is to Mr. Egil Hulgaard from Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143204	When we last discussed this, we called on the Conservatives to involve the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to a greater extent, and the Social Democrats did support this at the time. So my question is whether it would not have been appropriate to include the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143230	I think it's natural to discuss it. Now we are discussing it here in Parliament too, and it can also be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but that does not change the fact that I think it is the Bureau that must draw the final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143243	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143244	[Sound emission]... However, as has been said before, it is important that there is broader support for a resolution like that. So does the rapporteur not think it would be natural to discuss this in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143300	In fact, I have the impression that it is the case that there is broad support for us flapping the rainbow flag. It is the Bureau that is taking the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143311	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143314	Thank you. I could understand that the rapporteur spoke a lot about the desire for equality. But can the rapporteur understand that there may be others who would like to raise a flag in here at Christiansborg now and who are seeking permission from the Bureau to raise a flag? All of a sudden, we can have tons of flags, we need to hang up in the flagpole. Is there not discrimination if one then says that the flag of pride must be allowed to be there but that the others must not be allowed to be there? Therefore, it would be most logical for us to stick to Dannebrog. Dannebrog is the flag of the Danes; we have Dannebrog to flag with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143401	Dannebrog is the flag of the Danes, and Dannebrog also hangs in front of Christiansborg all days of the year, and I think it is very good that we flake with Dannebrog here and show what an institution we are. But that does not change, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that on special occasions we must also flag other flags, as the Bureau has also decided to do with regard to the organisations we pay tribute to the United Nations and the European Union, and then also when there are state visits or the Faroe Islands and Greenland have their national day, etc. And then there is just the small remark that the flag of pride is not the flag of an organization. The Pride Flag is a flag that comes from outside, expressing a desire and a mark of equality between people. It is not an organization, and that is why I think it is natural that, at least as I have been informed about the applications that have come to the Bureau about being allowed to hang the flag of organisations, we have received a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143501	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143503	In the Danish People's Party we believe that it is Dannebrog that should wander, and not other flags. But I want to hear about, for example. International Women's Day, whether it has been requested, and whether the Socialist rapporteur believes that it should be allowed to fly for it at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143522	Quite frankly, I do not know if it has been applied for, and if it has been applied for, I would think it was natural that it was the Bureau that dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143529	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143538	Thank you. In the last session we also discussed a proposal on flagging on the basis of a request from the Danish People's Party, and I respect the fact that parties can table motions for resolutions in this Chamber. However, if you want to have a constructive discussion, I think it would be better to take it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I would urge you to do so. It is also true, as the Conservatives' rapporteur says, that this was promised from certain quarters, and that has not happened. So I would like to start by calling on you perhaps to consider taking this debate, not on a written basis in the Assembly Chamber, but in the Bureau, which is the decision-making body, but with the opportunity for discussion in the Rules Committee. I think that is quite reasonable. And I also believe that it will be a more effective use of our time. But having said that, this motion for a resolution has been tabled, which we cannot support in the Left in order to reach the conclusion. We cannot do this because we want to go back to what was the legal state in relation to flagging from the Danish Parliament in the autumn of 2019. And as is also described in the proposal, it has since been decided with the support of the Left that you can flag with the EU flag and with the UN flag. This was decided here in the spring of 2020, which is why we do not want that to happen in relation to the decision that has already been taken. But we think it is right that the Bureau should sit down and discuss what the rules should be for flagging and also involve the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I think that can be very sensible. In any case, in this case, I can understand that the administration and the President have just acknowledged, as described in the motion for a resolution, that one Bureau member, the Bureau member of the Danish People's Party, was accidentally not consulted on the Bureau decision taken. And that is, of course, regrettable, but mistakes happen. The decision that has been taken cannot be reversed, but you can sit down and make rules about what needs to be flagged with. I am in agreement with this and I agree with the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left that care should be taken to ensure that it does not slip away, so suddenly there are all kinds of flags that can fly here. It is primarily a formbrog that must wander from the Parliament that is our position. Then I would say, also on behalf of my parliamentary group, that the Bureau could at the same time see whether the flag regulations in force are being complied with. They're fixed by the Ministry of Justice. And it's a little pretty, but it's important, because it's the case that when you're flapping with a flag other than a brook, you have to make sure that you bat with Dannebrog as the highest, and the Folketing, as I've been told about, doesn't in all cases. Then you will at least be signaled if you fly two flags... it may be the EU flag, it may be the UN flag, or it may be a flag from a visiting country in connection with a state visit... that Dannebrog the most important. That's what's up to the top. That's how I understand the flag rules. This is then a way of ensuring that we point to what is most important, while at the same time emphasising and paying tribute to something else. But basically, this is a debate that belongs in the Bureau, possibly involving the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and not down here in the Chamber. So with this justification, along with the initial, namely that the Danish People's Party will return to a situation in which neither the UN flag nor the EU flag on these two selected days are battered, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143930	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120143936	I can begin by agreeing with that, sir. Lauritzen says in relation to tightening up compliance with the flag regulations, not least with the ministries. So it's multiple times I've gone home after dark and seen Dannebrog still hanging away unlit on ministries. It is a mistake, and it should be emphasized that you will not put up with it. Having said that, the agreement will probably end too. I can assure you, sir. Lauritzen that we will constantly bring the matter up in the Parliamentary Chamber every time the Left or a majority of the Bureau wishes to water down the way Parliament appears as an institution. Because that's the thing. This isn't about what kind of organizations you want to talk about. It is about the fact that the Folketing, as an institution, should not have a position on these institutions, whether it be about the EU, the UN or the flag of lgbt+. So I just want to ask you this: Karsten Lauritzen if he now examines his heart... a person out there in the Danish society who has at some point spoken out against either the EU, the UN or what the lgbt+ flag represents?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144044	But I do not accept the premise of the question. I understand, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks, but I do not accept the premise. We are a member of a European community, and it is partly against the Danish People's Party that it changes so little, depending on who speaks out but you do not want to resign either. We are a member of the UN and, yes, there are problems with the UN. I think it is fair and reasonable that these flags should be allowed to fly from the Folketing on a few selected days. Then you have to be very careful about what else you allow very careful because you also send a signal to someone who would like to have their flags on the international day of battle and on other special days. And why can't the flags of other organisations be allowed to wave? You have to think about this carefully. I think it has already been thought about in the Bureau, and there it must continue to be. That is why we in the Left are pleased that the Bureau is taking a decision involving the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which the parties which are not in the Bureau have the opportunity to be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144148	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144149	But for us it is absolutely crucial that this contempt of the Folketing as a politically neutral institution should be exposed by the fact that all members of parliament vote. Well, for the sake of history books we need to know who it was that would take political patents and ownership of an institution that should be all Danes. That is why it is not good enough to do it as a committee work. I understand that sir. Lauritzen does not want to answer whether there are people in his circle who may be against one of the three flags, because of course there are. There is a very large proportion of the Danish population who are opposed. So let me ask you at the end: is Mr. Lauritzen agrees that when they see one of the three flags at the top of the Folketing, perhaps they also feel an animosity against the Folketing itself as an institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144234	Actually, I don't think so. I think they respect the fact that we have the rule of the people and that there are rules. You can never please everyone, so I think they actually respect that. I think so too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt actually respects. It's part of democracy. That's what we salute in here. What I will not accept is that the Danish People's Party will be allowed to take a patent to pay tribute to Dannebrog, because it is our flag and I am happy with Dannebrog. But my party uses Dannebrog in a different way and to a different extent than the Danish People's Party. It must be the flag of all of us, and I share that, I think, with both Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144309	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144318	You can sign the Danish People's Party for us to get Dannebrog up permanently. You wouldn't do that in the old days, when I started in the Folketing, which you might think is a little strange. But there is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, no contradiction in flaking with Dannebrog, which we do here permanently, and then on selected festival days either to mark days that are strongly popularly anchored I would point out that the rainbow flag is just about being free to be and having the right to be who you are, and I have little difficulty in finding out who would be against it or celebrating the institutions that we have adopted democratically that we are part of when these are marked with a special feast day, so the Danish Parliament also marks it, as long as we have gone into it by democratic decision. So for me there is no contradiction in that. By the way, I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Karsten Lauritzen in that the rules of the flag must of course be observed. They must, of course, of all people, not least of the country's institutions. Then there is the second layer: who should make that decision. A source of my sense of humor is here the cognitive impromptu who finds himself in the parliamentary parties and the members of the parliament, as soon as they are no longer in power. Then everything they have done is completely wrong. All the principles on which they themselves have based their own decisions are also totally wrong. It is very telling to experience it in this Parliament. I'm gonna say it because sir... Morten Messerschmidt, as I hear it, is very outraged that the Bureau has taken a decision on flagging in this high point. However, I am aware that a few years ago when the SF actually put forward the proposal that the rainbow flag should travel at Christiansborg, the rejection of it was announced to the Bureau by a decision of the Presidency • it was a mere decision of the President. So then, when it was about a rejection and about what served the position in the Danish People's Party, it was quite all right that it just ran through with a President's decision. But when it suddenly turns around and there is a different majority, and when this majority in a Bureau decision does not make a President's decision, then suddenly it is quite wrong. It is always a bit funny to think that this is the way it is in politics. I think we have seen many examples of this in the last year and a half. We have also seen examples of this in the past when it comes to changes of presidency and government. There's nothing new about that. There are probably not so many people who have something to let each other hear in this context, but it is always a little funny, not least because it often makes the proposers stand in a slightly comical light. But that doesn't change the fact that I have nothing against Mr. Morten Messerschmidt brings the matter down to the Parliamentary Chamber, because everything must be debatable, and I think it is quite fine that we should have a debate on it. And that is not least because I know that it is truly Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is very concerned. And it's perfectly legitimate. That is why I think it is quite good that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has made this proposal. But the outrage about how the decision has been taken, I think he should discuss with the former President of the Folketing. Then it might be that it could bring a few nuances on the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144811	I mean, it was an excellent speech, and the point of the procedure would have been just as excellent if I had said something about it so far. Then it would have been better chronologically, but it may be that I will come back to it at a later stage. I have not used that argument yet, but perhaps it is because the rapporteur had expected me to take the floor before the rapporteur himself, I do not know. Maybe I'll do it later. So I promise to come to the assistance of the rapporteur so that he gets at least half a point for the good argument. What I want to ask is in relation to this thing with a flag that signals equality. I guess you can say that about the flag known from International Women's Day. It is a historic flag which represents the equality of the sexes, a flag which is of great importance to many men and women. Nevertheless, I understand that it is a little von hydration that the request to flag with that particular flag in Parliament's flag poles has been rejected. So can the radical rapporteur tell us a little about why this kind of equality flag has not been found suitable while the lgbt+ flag has been found suitable?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120144922	No, I cannot answer that, because I am not aware of either the application or the reasons for the refusal. Now the lgbt flag is not an expression of equality, but more an expression of freedom, that is, the right to be who you are. At least that's how I understand the flag. Now it is not something we have discussed in the group, but I have the personal view that I would think it was fantastic if this Parliament would mark a few more days and then you can discuss which it should be. I would have no problem flagging a flag that marked International Women's Day. I think it would be beautiful. I think it would be beautiful if this Parliament could flag something more for the festival days and historical points there are. It doesn't hurt Dannebrok. It's not a dirty Dannebrok. It's such a strange idea to have that it's something that demeans Dannebrog on the contrary. Well, it was up to me, and we flew with many more flags.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145037	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145038	It could be that one should accept that offer and simply get up all the flags of the world so that the damage will be covered all over the place, and no one would really notice it. Then you will not be able to see one flag for another. I just wanted to say that this isn't about Dannebrog... it's gotta be a delusion that has arisen somewhere in the radical group room. This is about the Folketing, that is that the Folketing as an institution must be apolitical. So, in general, without talking about Dannebrog or other flags, let me just ask Mr. Jens Rohde, if he does not agree with it, that is that it is not the case that a particular movement can be identified with the Folketing as an institution. No matter what you vote, no matter what you think or feel, you should be able to feel as part of the Danish people's government and thus of the Folketing as an institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145124	That is absolutely right, but the Folketing is also beating politically we are. All of us who are here are beating politically; there is no more political institution in this country than the Folketing, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And yes, as I said, I think it would be beautiful if we could figure out how to mark a few more days. We have Dannebrog at the top, we flatch with Dannebrog every day, and then it would be beautiful if, on the occasion of some very special days, we could then discuss which it should be; you could leave that a decision that was taken here marked it. Well, that's a history-consciousness, and sir. Morten Messerschmidt is very fond of history, just like myself, so it might be part of that formation, sir. Morten Messerschmidt speaks so much in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145205	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145209	Thank you. We, the Conservatives, would like to urge that this kind of decision on, for example, this kind of decision be taken. flag rules are being transferred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Isn't it an appropriate place to hear all the parties of the Folketing about how to flag in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145227	Yeah, I'd love to, for me. I have no relationship with the fact that as a Bureau member I have to sit and make such decisions. I simply note that this is the way the Rules of Procedure have been. During the previous period, it was the President of the Folketing who announced it. Now we have moved a step further in the democratic process, because now it is the Bureau that is doing so. That is the way things are going, you might say, and then we can move it to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And again: I have no criticism that we are now discussing this in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think that is only fair because what people are concerned about is entirely legitimate, and I know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt feels for this question. So let us have a good discussion about it. I think that is excellent even if it is on a Friday afternoon, and it is for the sound of the pot lid stem cage corps.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145320	A second comment to Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145323	I'll take that as a clear yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145326	The Conservative People's Party can also do so calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145331	So there were no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's Mrs. Trine Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145341	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the proposers want to roll rules on flagning in front of Christiansborg back to what was in force before they were amended in September 2019. Today it is the case that Dannebrog is flying in front of Christiansborg on all the days in the Assembly Hall from 8 a.m. 8:00 to sunset, and also on this sunny day today it will be in front of Christiansborg. In addition, on election day and according to the rules applicable to official flag days in Denmark. On the festival days of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, the Greenlandic and Faroese flags are flagged. On important external visits, the flag of the visiting country is flagged on one flagpole and Dannebrog on the other to show our respect for them and their visit here. The Nordic flag is flagged on the Nordic day, with the EU flag on the EU day and with the UN flag on the UN day. In this way, international cooperation and the communities of which we are a part are recognised. On Saturday, when Copenhagen Pride Week is in Copenhagen, there is a flag flying next to Dannebrog with the rainbow flag; a flag that also adorns a large number of private and public institutions and companies on this day, for example. municipalities, ministries, trade unions and buses in the metropolitan area; a flag which is an internationally recognised symbol of some fundamental rights of freedom to be who you are and live the life you want. In general, Dannebrog is the dominant flag that adorns Christiansborg, and it hangs side by side with the flags that saw on special occasions. That's how we think it should be. In the SF we support the current flag rules and therefore cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145542	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Egil Hulgaard of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145551	Thank you for that, and I would like to ask the same question that I asked the radical rapporteur: is it not appropriate to take this kind of discussion about, for example, the situation? the flag rules of the Folketing in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145609	In general terms, I feel that the issues relating to the operation and life of Christiansborg and the decisions that are here must be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I can hear that there is an interest in discussing these flag rules quite widely, including those from the parties not represented in the Bureau. Sure, for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145630	Then there is one more brief comment, and it is for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145636	Yes, sir. After all, I do not know whether it is in accordance with the minutes of the internal affairs of the Bureau that there was supposed to have been an application in the past for this streaked flag, which we are talking about, from the SF, which the rapporteur represents, and that the request should have been rejected by a decision of the President. I would just like to ask, because I understand that one has been unhappy with the procedure: why did it not then be brought before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or the Folketing, for example, so that we could have had a debate on the matter in this Chamber, just as we have dealt with it here today at the request of my and the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145722	I don't know. Well, it's a discussion with Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde, like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has had, and it is true that that proposal was rejected at the time. I have felt so far that I have respected the decisions taken by the Bureau. I didn't know at that time, and I don't think any of those who tabled the SF proposal knew how the decisions were made, just that they were made by the Bureau, and so far it has been something that we have respected. But I would also like to be accommodating, and if these rules of the flag are something that is generally at the heart of the parliamentary parties, then I think we should have the discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145804	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145805	I certainly accept that, and I am pleased that the Conservative People's Party has taken up this issue so that we hope to have a change of practice. I'm just curious, because like Mr. Simpson... Jens Rohde says that I am historically interested: did the Socialist People's Party object to the Bureau about the procedure for rejecting it then?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145829-2	Not that I know of. We didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145834	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120145841	Thank you for that, President. Now the SF's rapporteur, Trine Torp, has pointed out when it is the flag of this Parliament and what rules are being observed in relation to it, and it is quite right that it is usually a decision taken by the Bureau on what the rules are like. But I would just like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we think it is a good thing that we have the debate here. We also think it is very good that, when there is Copenhagen Pride Week, there is a flag with a rainbow flag which also signals inclusion and signals that people who have been oppressed in the past, also in relation to their democratic rights and to living their lives with the gender identity and sexuality they have, are also welcome in relation to both democracy and society as a whole. That is why I think it is good that we have the debate and that we can also have the debate on what rules should be in relation to which organisations can become the flag, which can help signal equality and inclusion in terms of democracy and democratic rights. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to return to the previous rules, but completely backs up and there I can already come Mr. Egil Hulgaard to say that we also think it would be a good thing that it is a discussion that can be held in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I think that only strengthens democracy in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150027	I'm just gonna ask sir. Peder Hvelplund, about all the words he says about the flag we are talking about today, could not also be linked on other flags, as Mr. Plund's party might therefore want to see in the flagposts of the Danish Parliament. Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that Enhedslisten would like to see the red tab in Parliament's flagposts on May 1st?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150059	Now I think it is an excellent principle that this is something we are discussing in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would say that my approach to this would be that I think it is the flags that signal inclusion and that you are responding to the people who, for example, are. have been oppressed. It is acting, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Morten Messerschmidt earlier on 8 March, that is to say that there have been groups which have previously been suppressed in relation to democratic rights. It seems to me that there is a strong symbol in the fact that the Folketing is also battling for those people and thereby also showing that they are being accommodated in relation to democracy. I think that would be an immediate guideline for us to be able to operate on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150136	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150139	Does this mean that Enhedslisten could well imagine seeing the red tab in Parliament's flagposts? All those words, sir. Peder Hvelplund just used, I suppose, too. Dolphins think can be used in relation to the connotations attached to the red tab, i.e. the slave army of hunger, the oppression of the working class, the betrayal of bourgeois privileges, etc. So just a yes or no: Could Enhedslisten imagine the red tab at the top of the Parliament's flagpoles?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150214	To say that we could never imagine the red flag of the Folketing would probably be to draw it far. But in the case of Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt would be interested in finding out whether Enhedslisten could support it, so he could raise the proposal in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and then we could take the debate there. I do not think that this would be an immediate proposal that we would bring forward. Because, on the basis of the guidelines I mentioned earlier, it seems to me that these are the groups which have been particularly oppressed and have been deprived of their democratic rights and which have not had the opportunity to participate in democracy, which we owe that flag to the Folketing. But in principle, I don't rule anything out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150246	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150257	Then I have again been allowed to stand here instead of Mrs Mai Mercado, and I am, of course, happy to do so. Then we will have to discuss flags again, and we will be happy to do so in the Conservative People's Party. It is as if you can only be really Danish if you have patented Dannebrog and only Dannebrog, but you cannot. You can't patent Dannebrog. The beautiful flag is the flag of all of us. In the last debate on flags, Mrs Mai Mercado, when standing up here, called for greater involvement of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure so that all parties could discuss the flag rules to be applied. It is not exactly possible to say that the prayers were heard at the time, because since then there has been a debate in the Bureau on the rainbow flag, and that is actually strange. In fact, for a number of parties sitting in the Bureau, during the last debate, a commitment was made that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure could be involved in a number of issues, among others. Social democracy. After all, I asked the rapporteur, who did not give me a clear answer. So it would have been reasonable to raise this discussion on the rainbow flag at a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but the call is still being dismissed, and Conservatives still believe that it would be more democratic to conduct this kind of discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure rather than just take them in the Bureau. On the specific proposal: the last time we had the proposal on flag rules, the position of the Conservatives was to support the current rules, and that is to say. EU flag on 9 May and UN flag on 24 October. Of course it is natural to fly Dannebrog, and that is, of course, the flag we are most proud of, but we in our group have stressed that we also acknowledge that we have an international commitment to the European Union and the United Nations, and that is why we did not support the resolution last time, and we do not do so this time either. However, we would like to call for the decisions on flag rules to be moved from the Bureau and into the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and for the discussion to be taken over in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150504	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150510	I have to admit, I waited for Mr. Hulgaard's speech with some excitement. Last or last time, I have to say, unfortunately, that we were discussing this issue of flag rules, I knew that the Conservative People's Party had agreed to both the EU flag and the UN flag. However, these were flags which represent an institution in which Denmark has so legally signed up. Whether you like it or not, we are a member of the European Union and we are a member of the United Nations. I am not aware that this flag we are talking about today reflects a legally limited institution into which Denmark has joined. That's why I just want to hear sir. Mr Hulgaard, if he will not at least acknowledge and come to my attention that we are now going another step further into what kind of flag it seems to be with which the Folketing as an institution should be associated.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150604	So, first of all, we think that the discussion should be taken elsewhere, but now we are taking it here. For me, it is not clear where the limits lie for what kind of flags we then use. That is why I can agree to the argument that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is advocating, namely where the rules go. We think it is very clear about the United Nations and the European Union. We recognise an international commitment in those two days, and we can support that. And then we would actually like to discuss in greater detail in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure what other rules should apply. I think it should be fairly clear who can expect the Folketing to batter for them. It must be Dannebrok first, and then it must be very limited beyond that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150653	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150655	Does this mean that the Conservative People's Party supports the flagging of the Parliament with the lgbt+ flag, or does it mean that the border there is crossed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150711	There I have to speak as a representative of the Conservative People's Party and not necessarily on behalf of the Conservative People's Party as a whole. I don't think you should fly the lgbt flag. Morten Messerschmidt Excellent. Thank you. )
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150717	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150729	The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on flagning in the Folketing. The reason for the motion for a resolution is that the Bureau of the Danish Parliament has expanded the rules for flagging in two rounds, so that they now include flagging with the UN flag, the EU flag and, most recently, the rainbow flag. The motion for a resolution seeks to change the rules so that the Danish flag and the foreign flag can be reflagged only on foreign state visits. We in the New Citizen can only agree to this roll-back. I think it is worrying how the rules on flagging are gradually being extended to cover both intergovernmental organisations and other things, and that development should be stopped. The Danish flag is our national symbol, which brings us all together about what characterises our country. This is what has to be waving in front of the Parliament... not the flags of intergovernmental organisations or other flags. The flag in front of the stronghold of democracy must therefore be brought back to its original function, which is to act as a uniting symbol for Denmark across political divides, and New Citizens therefore supports motion for a resolution B 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150838	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I look after the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, but I do not see him, and so I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120150900	Thank you. In the course of the debate, several rapporteurs have given the impression that this proposal, which we are debating, should relate to the use of Dannebrog. It's wrong. I believe that the Folketing will be Danish, even without flags at all. I think most Danes alone at the sight of Christiansborg's famous facade know that this is where the country is headed. This has been the case for almost 800 years, although there have been slightly different buildings here at Slotsholmen. For the institution, the Folketing is all ours. In fact, we do not have to mark that with a flag, but we do anyway, because we are fortunate enough to have a beautiful flag, a beautiful flag, which is precisely ours all together, because it is nobody's. And that is the very important premise that everyone must understand, namely that the tab, Dannebrog, is nobody's, because it is everyone's and vice versa. The same could be said of the Folketing, which is why it is obviously not good for the Folketing to be adorned with political clothes. It does not work because the Left can celebrate a 150-year celebration, so the Left pulls up the flagposts of the Danish Parliament, because it can mislead the vast majority of Danes who could never dream of voting on the Left.Sorry to the Left's rapporteur, but that is the reality of the iron industry to believe that the Folketing was suddenly the Left's, and of course it is not. So there should be no political flags at Christiansborg; there should be no political markings at the institutions that are all, because only by being everyone's are they nobody's. This is true of the royal house, it is true of the church, and it is true of the Folketing. It has therefore been amazing to see that the rapporteurs have been more busy talking about some having patented Dannebrog, and talking Dannebrog up or down than dealing with the real thing we are dealing with here, namely that it is about the Folketing as an institution. For whether you like it or not, then there are people in society for whom the rainbow flag is associated with something boring, with something negative, because the rainbow flag signals politics. And you cannot be in any doubt about that if you go into the Danish Parliament's own twitter account, because there you can see that during the rainbow week itself you have written that you flew with the rainbow flag because you celebrate diversity. It may be good to pay tribute to diversity if you are a human being, but has it also been brought up for an institution, for a parliament, with all the political connotations that lie in the rainbow flag? One does not need to google very much on one's computer to see what political programme is connected to the rainbow flag: it is a special view of family, a special view of man, a special view of what rights one should have even as a child. There is no real solution to all these questions. In politics, there is no correct answer: there is a majority that decides, and then the voters can do it again afterwards. For this very reason, because the right political attitude does not exist, the Folketing as an institution must keep itself at a distance from everything that smells of politics. Politically, we can deal with 179, and so do we. There are people running around with these targets in the reverse; there are people running around with the Christian X emblem in the reverse; there are people wearing a Dannebrogeblem, and there are some wearing EU socks, and we are so different. That's fine, because we only do that on our own behalf. We don't do that on behalf of the Folketing as an institution. And by making the Folketing an institution of a political emblem, we are all doing ourselves as democrats a disservice, for those who read something they do not like, into the rainbow flag, those who read something they do not like, into the EU flag or the UN flag, will suddenly read everything they do not like, into the Folketing as an institution, and that is where we make a mistake of historical dimensions, not to Dannebrog • Dannebrog has survived worse things than the present Parliament and its reckless association with the political; it will probably be done no, against ourselves, against the democratic institution that we have the privilege of serving for a short period of time. That is why, in the Danish People's Party, every time the Bureau takes these decisions, where the institution is being politicised more and more, we insist that the debate be taken down to the Parliamentary Chamber. I welcome this and thank you for the initiative of the Conservative People's Party, so that it now seems to be a committee in the future, so that it takes place in rather greater openness with some more people, but I have no doubt that it will not stop here, because the politicisation of the Folketing as an institution is now de facto under way. Of course, one organization after another will push for its own and what is really the good argument? We have heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur that it is about the flag we are talking about today symbolising equality. Well, isn't there quite a lot of political flags out there that signal equality? We have talked about the flag of International Women's Day. I guess it's also a kind of equality, but I guess it's also a kind of freedom to be treated the same, no matter what sex you're born with. There I think you have the whole problem in a nutshell: when you have said A, you can also say B. Then we can discuss procedural rules, Jens Rohde. I am quite open to that, too, to what has happened in the past, but I have to say that when not even the SF's own rapporteur remembers that there were major objections, it may not be the biggest problem, and certainly not a problem that approximates it, if I may say so, that Mr. Jens Rohde, with his colleagues in the Bureau, is patenting the Folketing. For where some say that we in the Danish People's Party are patenting Dannebrog, which no one can patent, it is in fact those who want to politicize the institution of the Folketing who are patenting the Folketing. How can one, in a system where we should share the disagreement, where there is no truth, afford to patent an institution and say: it belongs only to those who believe this, this or that? It is not democratic, and at least it is doing nothing but a disservice to democracy. That Enhedslisten will not refuse to support the red tab in the flagpoles, I think, in turn, speaks for itself, because where are we? Then it is no longer just broad political flags that we are dealing with, then suddenly it is also party political. That is why I asked so insistently, completely as insistently as we in the Danish People's Party will continue to pull these cases in the Folketing. And hopefully it will just have a little bit of a training effect compared to those who want to politicize the Folketing as an institution. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120151708	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120151735	The debate has been opened by the fact that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party has the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120151753	I'm sorry, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is busy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120151757	Yeah, sorry, it's been switched around, I see. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen Yes, that's right, absolutely correct. ) That's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen instead. Thus Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is allowed to leave the Chamber and I would like to welcome Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120151810	Thank you. This also means that the presentation I am speaking from here is actually something that my good colleague Leif Lahn Jensen has written, but I shall try to get through it in a good and proper way. Before the summer recess, we were discussing in this Chamber a citizens' proposal which sought to have a longer maternity leave for the parents who are in the worst possible situation, I think, to lose a child. What the proposers wanted was a longer maternity leave, and not only for those parents who lose a child during the first seven months after birth, but also for those who experience it, as long as the child is 18 years old. As the authors wrote in the proposal: why have only those who have lost a child at birth or during the first seven months of their life been entitled to 14 weeks' mourning leave? After the discussion in the Folketing there was a very short meeting with the Minister and there was broad support for the proposal, as we can now see in the bill that lies here from the Minister and the government. The proposal extends the right of absence to all parents who lose a child before the age of 18 and extends the period of absence from 14 weeks to 26 weeks after the death of the child. It was also important for the Social Democratic Party to have flexibility during the leave period, as it treats grief differently as a human being, and for some it takes longer than for others. Therefore, an employee may later change the length of absence. Although one has reported that one wants leave, one can change the length of absence, but not beyond the 26 weeks after the child's death. Or one can do so, that one can shorten the foretold absence if the employee needs it. For all those who have experienced the worst that can happen, namely losing a child, this is a very good proposal. With it will have more time to process the grief that is and more time than they have today. In fact, I should like to thank the people who have fought for this proposal.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's very well done, thank you very much. I would also like to thank all the parties for coming together in an important matter such as this one and making a good decision in broad agreement. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152053	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152104	Thank you for the floor. What we have to decide now is the first reading of a legislative proposal which follows directly from the political agreement on the right to grief leave, which was concluded by a broad majority in the Folketing this summer, and which in fact came into being on the basis of a very good citizen's proposal. This means that we can begin today to give parents who have lost a child the right to grief leave for up to six months. We are pleased about that in the Left. In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, there was an incident in which I think we were all caught by the situation described. What is it to have grief? After all, it is the persistent, painful feeling of loss, calamity, severe adversity or the like, especially after the death of a beloved person. We may well have no doubt that it is particularly affected if it is one of your own children with whom you experience it. For us in the Left, it is crucial that in this way we can deal with the powerlessness, emptiness that cannot be compensated for. Very often it's pointless for the parents, and there's something about what it's like to act in this situation. Of course, it is clear that no law, no leave scheme or anything can replace the lifetime of memories that one should have had with one's child. However, having said that nothing can compensate for the unbearable loss, it should not prevent us from providing better support and help to the families affected by the ultimate tragedy. Each family, each parent handles it in its own way. Some must return to the mill immediately; others must have plenty of time and quiet to find a foothold again. That is why we in the Left are also pleased that the proposal envisages that as parents you can return to work early, if that is what you need, just as you can extend the notice leave if it stays within 26 weeks, if that is what you think needs to be done. In short, we in the Left are pleased with the flexibility and are pleased that no one size fits all-model. We support the proposal. Then we have one comment: we have become aware that parents of very early born children can be admitted with the children, and you can now end up in the situation when you are discharged that such flexible hospitalization has a consequence for maternity leave. We would ask the Minister to consider, in connection with opening this law, whether you could look at it. It is not just grief leave that we are dealing with, because the proposal also deals with an audit model. Then why it's connected to this bill must be unsaid, but we can support that too. With these words, the Left can support the bill in its entirety. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152416	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152428	Thank you for that, President, and above all congratulations to the Minister for Employment with his new title as also Minister for Gender Equality. Losing a child is one of the worst things that can happen to you. As a parent, as a mother, I can't imagine anything worse. Recently, a five - year - old girl was killed by a hit-and-run driver. I send my deepest sympathy to the family, and at the same time my thoughts also go to others who have lost, including the family of the now dead cancer-stricken Rasmus of 18 years who had to fight the system to get the bone prosthesis he needed, while fighting against cancer. Unfortunately, Rasmus lost the fight against cancer and the system. A child was never meant to die before his parents. Unfortunately, it happens too many times that your child dies, and grief must be excruciatingly heavy to bear. That is why it is also necessary for you to have the grief leave you need to be allowed to grieve. And there is a difference between how people are affected by the grief: Some may want to be allowed to work it away, others need several months, and there may also be those who need longer time. That is why the proposal here that up to 6 months of grief leave should be granted is in order, also, that there should be an opportunity to have a grief leave until the child reaches 18 years of age. It is therefore a little incomprehensible that we have not been able to extend the grief leave in the past. It's happening now. In the Danish People's Party we have previously asked the Minister what we should find of funds to extend the grief leave. A citizens' proposal came before us, and it is quite fantastic that we have now drawn up a political agreement on the basis of a citizens' proposal which we also supported when it was first dealt with in the Parliamentary Assembly. Congratulations to the proposers, congratulations to Pernille Møller Jensen. As a result of changes in the maternity law, changes are made to the Act on Active Social Policy and to the Act on Active Employment, which includes: This means that parents, for example: receive cash benefits or unemployment benefit, retains the right to benefit and is not required to be available during the period during which they are taking maternity leave. In the Danish People's Party, we warmly support this proposal. I remember when I had my first child and then two other children, and as a mother you were always worried about whether your child was breathing. You looked in the crib and you looked in the baby carriage. When they got a little older, you were worried because they started mopeding, and now I'm worried because they're driving. So I think that as a parent you have a number of concerns throughout your life, and that's the way it is. But I am certainly glad that we are now adopting this fantastic law. I am also pleased with the cooperation that has been with the other parties about this, even when we were over at the Employment Minister and got this agreement in place. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152750	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120152759	Thank you very much. When I think back to 9 June here in Parliament, when we first dealt with the motion for a resolution on grief leave, I am delighted to do so, because it was one of the days when things really made sense, one of the days when I was extra proud to be elected. And I think we can all afford to be today. For the debate on the motion for a resolution, the beauty of our people's government at home demonstrated that it is possible for citizens to make a difference when they experience a system that is lacking in meaning, but also that politically speaking people are being listened when people get caught up in the rules that are wrong. The debate made it clear to me that, despite our different ideological positions, there are areas which speak to common sense in all of us and which in this case also speak to a common empathy with the parents who have lost a child. So today we owe a great deal of thanks to the authors and signatories of the original citizens' motion for a resolution for bringing this important subject into the Chamber, which we are now in the process of making law. The length of maternity leave and the length of maternity leave at 7 months have simply been inadequate. It's considering how tragic an incident it is for parents to lose a child. It can hardly be described in words. The extension of the age group and the extension of leave can hopefully help parents who lose a child to have more time and quiet to cope with the enormous grief. Grief cannot be put on formula, and we deal with these things differently. Therefore, it is also very reasonable that the draft law provides for flexibility so that the individual parent can assess the need to deal with grief. It is important that we both ensure the right conditions for those who prefer to return quickly to work, and that we also help those who best process their grief by being at home in a quiet environment. There is one thing that I think is also worth noting for me, which is the rapporteur on equality, and now that the Minister for Employment has also become Minister for Gender Equality and congratulations on that, I also think that is one thing he can be aware of. That is because the bill alone includes mother, father and mother, and therefore not co-dad. Co-fathers simply do not have a legal role and, in general, we in the Radical Left are convinced that co-fathers should be recognised and given the rights that go with parenthood. Just as we could agree that the grief of losing a child is neither less nor easier to process if the child is 15 years of age instead of 5 months, I feel convinced that grief is neither less nor easier to process if you are a co-dad rather than a co-mother. That said, 9 June was a good day and it will be an even better day when we can all vote for this bill and really create better conditions for parents who have experienced the greatest tragedy. Politics makes sense, and the Radical Left, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153125	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153135	First of all, a great deal of thanks to the thousands of people who made sure that the Folketing dealt with the citizens' proposal. The SF supported the citizens' proposal to extend the right to grief leave, and we welcome the fact that today we will end up with a genuine legislative proposal. It is impossible to understand the grief that must be losing a child. A small help can be provided by the Folketing by extending, as proposed, the right to absenteeism to all parents who lose a child until the age of 18 and extending the period from 14 to 26 weeks. It is also good that we are now achieving a greater degree of flexibility. The grief of losing a child does not depend on the child's age, and that is why it makes good sense that it is raised to 18 years. When we first discussed the proposal, the Cancer Children Association wrote to us: "... studies show that losing a child is the most stressful loss that can be experienced and that it affects them many years later and that many parents both the surviving siblings receive severe strain reactions and anxiety along the way and several years later. Better opportunities for leave and for longer time just cannot stand alone when it comes to the deep grief after having lost a child. SF wants more help for parents, and it could for example. This is because they are given the same rights of help and support as parents who lose an infant. I also note that the Danish Psychologist Association and the National Sorgcenter have strong points that the age limit of 18 years is not entirely appropriate. After all, we do not stop being parents, and the grief over your child can be difficult to deal with even though the child has grown up. I also think that their consultation responses are very relevant in terms of strengthened action in the areas of additional support measures, free psychological assistance, more flexible decline to the job, etc. The academics certainly also have a point when they point out that the foster parents with whom the child resides will also experience a strong grief and therefore may need absence without losing the right to sickness benefit. The improvements made by the bill actually mean very little to the state, but mean the world to families in grief. People who are to bear the unbearable should not at the same time spend resources on medical statements, sick absences, statements of opportunity and meetings at the job center. When mental batteries are basically due to death, yes, there must be time and opportunity to mourn, and we must now with a new and better law lift a small part of the burden from the hard-hit families. SF doesn't think we're fully in line with the work on helping these families, but it's a good thing we're now taking some important steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153511	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153521	Thank you for that, President. The proposal for grief leave is an incredibly important proposal and, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we warmly support it and have done so right from the start. I would also like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all of you who originally found the power to make the citizens' proposal. It is quite impressive that people who are in a very difficult situation will, after all, also find the strength to try to improve that situation, not only for themselves but for others who might find themselves in a similar situation in the future. And I would also like to thank the other parties and the government for listening to the parents who have just brought their own painful experiences into play. I am very pleased that we can now make the proposal for grief leave a reality. Losing a child must be one of the most horrible things you can ever face. There may not be any relief for this, but at least as a society we can make sure that we actually get some peace to heal just a little in relation to the acute shock we get before we have to go out and meet the demands of the labour market. There are also many families with more children where there is a need to use their strength on the siblings who are still away there. So it is quite appropriate that we now extend the possibility of grief leave so that it also applies to older children and for a longer period of time. It is also important to look at how we can improve opportunities for help and support through psychotherapy and other actions. But once again, thank you very much for the citizens' initiative. The legislation we are now making will hopefully be able to help the people in the worst situation of their lives a little, and therefore it is also important that we, as a society there, step in. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153725	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153736	Thank you. For me, there's nothing better than parenthood. This is something that really brings many joys, but also some concerns. Our children we love unconditionally, and we are ready to do everything for them. Therefore, the loss of a child is also the greatest grief one can experience as parents. Unfortunately, this is one of the events that my colleague Hanne Bjørn-Klausen has brought with him. Hanne has stood for the bill that came into being in an agreement between all the parliamentary parties and that we are today dealing with first. I send a loving thought to Hanne and thank her for using her situation to help those parents who may be in the unbearable situation of losing a child. I therefore hope to see once again the broad support that the Folketing could mobilise earlier this year when the agreement was concluded, and I can see that that is what we are experiencing today. For the Conservative People's Party, this is, of course, a proposal that we support 100%. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153857	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120153912	The worst thing you can imagine as a parent is losing your child. It is probably the greatest fear one has, and it is not something that stops when the child gets older. It does not stop because the child is 2, 4 or 6 years old, 9 years old or 12 years old. It's something that will always be there. I have two children myself, two boys, and I can't even imagine how horrible it would be to lose them. I have seen families that have almost perished because they have lost some of the most precious things they have, namely their children. That is why I would also like to thank all the people who supported the citizens' proposal that we dealt with here in the Folketing some time ago. It's amazing to experience such support for this very, very good proposal. Of course, it doesn't mean you're gonna get any smaller parents when the baby gets older. Whether the child is 2 years old, whether the child is 9 years old, 12 years old or 17 years old, you are no more parents, and it is just as much your child that you lose. It is therefore only natural that parents who have lost a child under the age of 18 should be able to receive this grief leave. I think this is a very good proposal and I think it is quite natural that we should extend the legislation here. New citizens, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154053	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I see no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, and that gives the floor to the Minister for Employment and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154114	Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for dealing with the draft law here. I feel, in the way I think all the rapporteurs have expressed when dealing with this bill, most recently Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens, that it is very close to impossible to imagine how deep a grief one really must feel as parents if this were to happen to one. That is why it is not too much for an entirely unanimous Parliament to have adopted a proposal by citizens out there in order to actually try to promote and improve the possibilities of actually working on that grief too, and I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for that. Because, as everyone knows, the draft law is based on the agreement reached by the government and all parties of the Folketing in June to extend the right to grief leave to 26 weeks for parents who lose a child under 18 years of age. After all, the agreement that I mentioned just now stems from a resolution based on a citizens' proposal, and fortunately it was also a unanimous Parliament that voted for it on 23 June 2020 as part of a political agreement. Once again, as I did at the time when we were discussing the motion for a resolution, I would like to congratulate the authors of the citizens' motion for a resolution, which is the basis for this extension of grief leave. They are a group of citizens who have been fighting for many years to put this high on the political agenda, and fortunately they managed to shout Christiansborg up. With the bill, there will be much better opportunities for parents to calm down in the process of grief, and I am pleased with the broad political support that has been given to improve the situation of parents who face the utterly incomprehensible and terrible situation of losing a child. The draft law also provides for a gradual roll-out of a new digitally supported audit scheme in the municipalities. This makes very good sense, and I therefore welcome the positive statements that have been made as to whether that part is the proposal. I am, of course, looking forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I am making myself available for the forthcoming committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154346	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked for the floor at this first reading, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154416	The debate is open. I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154426	Thank you, President. At any rate, you have no doubt that I am here, and it is still gone on behalf of our good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Leif Lahn Jensen, who is busy elsewhere. I'll try to get through this in a very good way and then just say, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen would have said: let us just make it clear that the senior pension, which has now worked for 9 months, has got off to a good start and has given people who are ill an opportunity to retire and have a much better life than before. That's really good. And with the experience we have from the senior early retirement, it's good to see that this scheme is being used and has got off to a good start. It has turned out that there was a great need for an extra hand for the people who are on this pension scheme. What has been particularly important for the conciliation parties in relation to the senior pension was that there should be a more uniform award of the senior pension and that it should not be a question of where one lives or which municipality one happens to live in. Therefore, the conciliation parties also chose to give the authority responsibility to the ATP, which has now set up what is called the Senior Pension Unit. The bill describes this authority's responsibility and describes the cooperation between the unit and the municipalities, where it is the senior pension unit that is responsible for the decision, while the municipalities are responsible for guiding the citizens and informing the cases. This scheme will then enter into force from 1 January 2021. I should also like to mention that the parties that have chosen to go into this matter and chose to give people who have worked for a very long time an opportunity to retire earlier have also extended the senior pension scheme. This means that if there are 6 years or less before you become a national pensionist and you have had a long-term link with the labour market and have a working capacity of 18 hours or less, then you can get a senior pension if you wish. I very much welcome the fact that with this tool we are helping people who have really fought in the last few years of their working lives by giving them an opportunity to retire in a dignified way. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154646	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we have been looking forward very much to this day, when with this bill we can put a big fly bone next to the establishment of the Senior Pension Unit, which we created earlier this year. With this bill, the authority from the municipalities, who have temporarily carried out the assignment of senior pension, is transferred to the senior pension unit in particular, and thus the final part of the agreement on entitlement to senior pension for the worn-out, which the previous government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals back in May of this year, and which the Social Democratic Party has fortunately endorsed subsequently. The senior pension replaces the former senior early retirement pension, which we must recognise did not have the effect that was intended. Unfortunately, this was a long way from the number we expected to receive a senior early retirement pension over the years, and it is also the reason why we wrote in the agreement that it should be an economically independent unit responsible for the award of senior pensions. That is how this bill is going to be, and in this way we ensure that it is not the postal number that determines whether you can get a senior pension, but no matter where you live in Denmark, it is the same authority that looks at it. It creates security and ensures legal certainty for the citizen. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154810	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154828	Thank you. I can reassure you that I am not a new employment rapporteur. The Danish People's Party worked hard to introduce a new entitlement to senior pension. If you can only work to the maximum. 15 hours a week, you are entitled to a senior pension, 6 years before reaching the age of retirement. It should be easy to go to, and it was done in a way so that everyone could count on a quick clarification and uniform case handling. We succeeded, and the senior pension has proved to be a success. We agreed at the time that a senior pension unit should be set up, where the competence to decide on the award of a senior pension should lie. It is now established and starts on 1 January 2021, where the competence is transferred from the municipalities, which were temporarily given the competence to decide on senior pension, to the Senior Pension Unit. In order to facilitate the transition, municipalities shall finalise the applications submitted before 1 January 2021. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154937	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120154950	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have reported, this bill is designed to shift the authority's responsibility for the award of senior pensions from the municipalities, which have temporarily exercised the competence, to the Senior Pension Unit, because it must not be the postcode and residence that determine how the treatment of the award of senior pensions falls. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155026	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155034	The senior pension gives a hand to some people who cannot last the entire season until the folk pension age. With the early retirement agreement, the one that probably also goes under the heading Arnepensionen is likely to make the scheme even better. SF considers it natural that we create an independent entity which, across and from the municipalities, deals with these matters. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155106	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155119	Thank you. I should also like to start by saying that I am not an employment rapporteur either, but on behalf of our employment rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb, I have the pleasure of giving the speech. When we discussed the bill on the establishment of the Senior Pension Unit in the previous session, Enhedslisten had some concerns about the case. We still have that. The municipalities must make all the guidance and case resolution, after which the unit must make the decision. However, citizens do not have access to direct contact with the authority making the decision, and certainly no guarantee that they can get in touch with someone who is dealing with the matter. Although there is some possibility of contacting the device by telephone or in writing, we should remember that we are talking about vulnerable and older people for whom it may not always be quite straightforward. In this context, there must be clear guidance to the municipalities as to how far they may need to be helpful to the actual procedure. There we have also noted in the consultation answers that KL would actually have preferred the municipalities to undertake the whole task themselves. It could then have been a different issue. But once the unit has dealt with the matter, it is transferred to ATP or Payout Denmark. Then the two can argue about where the error is, if there is an error payment, unless they have it run over to the municipality. I see that we have been promised that the Ministry will follow up on how the law and unity work and whether they work as intended, and we look forward to having a report on it in a year's time. In addition, we also need to adjust the rules for calculating the retirement pension. There we have some concern that this gives rise to additional costs. In committee we would like to ask for an overview of this. Then we will just have to say in the end that we are not, of course, enthusiastic about the substantive confusion which is also inherent in this draft law. But Enhedslisten supports Bill No. L 21.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155328	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155339	The bill is part of the implementation of the agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for the worn-out of May 2019 and the supplementary agreement to the agreement on the entitlement to senior pension of December 2019 that municipalities are temporarily entrusted with the task of deciding who is to be granted senior pension until the task is transferred to a central authority, and that is what is going to happen now. We think it is good that the procedure is moving from the municipalities to the senior pension unit. We are pleased that from next year we will have the competence to decide on senior pensions in the unit. There is already a very high proportion of those seeking a senior pension. With the proposal to move the case to the Senior Pension Unit, we ensure the legal certainty of citizens in dealing with matters relating to senior pensions, and we warmly support Conservatives on this. It is important that we have uniform cross-country procedures that citizens can count on. It is also important to note that the senior pension actually works. There are many who seek and many get senior pensions, and it is targeted the worn out. After all, the proposal stems from the agreement made by the bourgeois government on senior pensions. At that time many people were sceptical as to whether the scheme would work. Today we can see that it works and that it is targeted at the worn out, and we think that is really, really fine. So with this proposal, we are taking another step towards full implementation of the senior pension, which is why we support the draft law in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155542	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur, and that is why it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party and welcomes Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155600	Thank you. I am also not an employment rapporteur and I would just like to say briefly that something very fine has been said up here from the platform today, which we can endorse, and that we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155616	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and in the short time that has elapsed, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has still not reached the Chamber, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155624	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments. I would like to thank Parliament for the treatment that it has so far shown in general with regard to the creation of the senior pension, but in this context, of course, also with regard to the transfer of the authority's responsibility for the senior pension from the municipalities to the senior pension unit. I would like to begin by saying that it is welcome with such broad support for the senior pension scheme among the parties of the Folketing. As you know, the scheme has been in operation since 1 January 2020, when the municipalities have been responsible for the award of senior pensions, and implementation has been successful. By the end of August, the municipalities had reported a total of 3,793 senior pension cases, of which 3,581 had been awarded and 212 refused. This corresponds to a recognition rate of 94. The system has therefore come off to a good start, and the figures show that there has been a need, that there are people who need help after many years in the labour market. The scheme is now to be transferred, as planned, to the Senior Pension Unit under the ATP, which will have the competence to decide on senior pension from 1 January 2021. The purpose of allowing the Senior Pension Unit to take over responsibility for the award of senior pension is to ensure a greater spread of the scheme than was the case with the senior early retirement pension and to do so through a uniform procedure in a central government rather than in the municipalities. The bill is drawn up on the basis of the Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out persons agreed by the Conciliation Committee and the Government in December 2019. The present draft law lays down the formal framework and requirements for cooperation, including the framework for the transfer of the award responsibility, etc. KL and ATP have been continuously and closely involved in the preparatory work of qualifying the forward-looking assignment of senior pension, so that we ensure the framework for a well-functioning cooperation between the Senior Pension Unit and the municipalities. For the municipalities will continue to have an important role in senior pension cases as they must continue to provide information on cases and provide general guidance and assistance to citizens. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the government believes that the introduction of senior pensions has been necessary, and we can also see, as I said, that the scheme is being used fortunately. The senior pension is therefore a step in the right direction, but it is also only part of the solution to create fair retirement opportunities for citizens with long and hard working lives. Because it is not fair that people with many years in the labour market can only get help when they are too sick to work. That is why I am happy and proud that we have a good agreement on early retirement, which also means an extension of the senior pension scheme. With both a right to early retirement and an improved senior pension scheme, we will ensure much better opportunities to withdraw worthily from many thousands of Danes after a long working life, or if the body has said from before, and I look forward to the further discussion of the bill, and I will of course make myself available for the forthcoming committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120155954	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201120160015	Before the meeting can be closed, it is equally important to have a few further reviews: the Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 107 (Proposal for a Law amending the Property Assessment Act and various other laws. and other adjustments in the field of property, as well as changes in the basis for calculating registration fees and the introduction of special arrangements for the reimbursement of overpaid registration fees, etc.) Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others.: Haste query no. F 22 (Will the Prime Minister explain the decision-making process behind the national killing of mink, including the government's internal handling of the case, and the Prime Minister's own role in the matter from the meeting of the government's Covid-19 group on 1 October until the government's announcement of the killing of all Danish minks and the subsequent course, and does the Prime Minister agree with the need to have a committee of inquiry investigate the whole process?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 24 November 2020 at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
