ParlaMint-DK_20200312160000	The meeting is open. Today there is another review: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 132 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Coastal Protection, the Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Concrete Projects (EIA) and the Law on Planning. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on selected international organisations (OSCE, Council of Europe, Baltic Sea Council and Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation). R 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. No date has been agreed for the debate. In view of the fact that the Committee on Health and the Elderly has not yet submitted a report, I shall now suspend the sitting and the sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312210106	The sitting is resumed. The Committee on Health and the Elderly has still not submitted a report on L 133, and I shall therefore postpone the sitting until 1 p.m. 23:00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312225957	The sitting is resumed. I would like to say that we have some technical problems, so we have to postpone the sitting for 15 minutes. I would therefore also like to say that we are so many and are so close here, so I would ask that we leave the Chamber. Those are the restrictions. But in 15 minutes we will be able to vote and then it will be done in such a way that there is an amendment on which we will be voting and then it will have to go back to committee. I understand that the committee can settle for 15 minutes. So we're gonna make it all by 8:00. 24:00 as it is right now. So that's the call. We press the button when there is a vote, and from the time we press the button until the vote is taken, there are 8 minutes. That's it. The meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. 23.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231500	The sitting is resumed. Since we do not need to use our electronic vote, but do so by standing up when we have to vote later, I would ask Members to distribute a little, so there is as much room between Members as there is now room for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231515	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231534	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Peder Hvelplund first, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231553	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to take this opportunity to sign off on the good cooperation between the parties during the day. I also think it has been a good and rewarding course we have had, at least from our point of view. After all, when we first dealt with the proposal earlier today, I announced that we had a few reservations about being able to vote in favour of the proposal. One concern was for court approval, that is to say, that there was an intervention against personal freedom and thus forced access to the citizen's private dwelling without there being any judicial review of it. We have received this; we have had the paragraph called § 5 paragraph removed. 3. This means that a court order must now be given before access to the citizen's private home can be forced. I would, of course, like to acknowledge that our demand for it was heeded. The second concern we have had has been with regard to the actual implementation of the legislative proposal. We have wanted to ensure that there was a revision of the law. We have demanded that there should be a revision of the law every three months, but unfortunately we have not been able to do so. What we have, on the other hand, been given is that the law will be revised in November 2020 and that, at the same time, a political follow-up group will be set up which will closely monitor the implementation of the powers with which we equip the Minister. We are also very pleased with this, as it ensures that there will still be some form of democratic control over the authority we give to the Minister. That is why, as a whole, we can now support this bill, because what is crucial to us is that we take joint care of the health of all of us, but that we also take joint care of the freedoms of all of us. That balance seems to us now to have been achieved with this bill, and that is why I should like to say that we can vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231812	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312231820	I haven't been in Parliament for a long time, and there's probably a lot of things I haven't learned yet. But I also have some basic values and I have promised myself that if I am going to be in politics, I will not compromise with them. It is acting, for example. About saying things the way they are. I have actually written something down, and I do not usually do that to my rapporteur, but I have done so because I hope that Parliament does not regard this as a criticism, because it is not meant to be. But I also have to be honest with myself and say that this legislation, which has been dealt with urgently, is simply not good. We are in a great and deep crisis which requires rapid and far-reaching decisions that are necessary, and I recognise that. At the same time, we must also be honest with the people who are out there, because they are the ones we serve. This bill is off the charts. This hits me wrong, because it sends a large part of the bill for the common problems that we have on self-employed and private employees. This is done by removing their right to recover losses which we, as a community and with our instructions, impose on them a loss which may mean that they have to turn the key to their life's work. There are fatal, major consequences out there, and I don't think that's fair. I do not think it is good that, in such a situation here, there will be an ideological struggle between civil servants and private employees. We're not having that. I hope that next week, when we are going to take some action, we will be able to remedy what we are doing today, because we must also help the self-employed out there, because they have a lot at stake these days. We all do. I think it is a pity that, in a situation such as this one, some people, and in this case me, are forced to choose, because they refuse to share a bill, something that is customary in many committees; they say yes to that when there is a party that has a wish for it. But here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is, of course, the right of the majority, but when you do, you also force some people into a very, very unpleasant situation. Because if I vote against this proposal, a lot of people will be able to blame me afterwards for not being willing to take responsibility and make the necessary decisions that are needed out there, and if I vote yes, then I will hurt some people out there, and I think that is sad. So when I go down and press the green button, I will do it with a heavy heart, and I will do everything I can in the next period to help the self-employed and the employees out there, and I hope that the Folketing will do so too. Because we must be honest: with this legislation that we are now adopting, we are putting the self-employed and the employees in a worse position than they were in before we adopted it, and I hope that the Folketing will also be honest about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312232259	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312232313	Since, as I said, we should not push any button, but do it in the good old-fashioned way by standing up, I would ask the Secretary-General to come up here. Then I hope that each of them can count to the number they have to deal with. It is the case that Amendment No 1 is now being voted on. 1 of a minority (NB) that the bill is divided into two proposals. That is why we can now vote. If you're against the platoon, you get up. There were 93, who voted against. Then I ask those who vote for the platoon to stand up. Now that I'm wearing my glasses, I don't need the secretary of things, because I can see that it was 2 that did. I'm sorry, there's three votes in favour. Okay, then I should have brought the clerks. Does anyone vote for or against? There isn't. I'm gonna have to correct this. I have not listened carefully when the things secretaries told me that it was 92 who voted against the bill being shared. And it all fits, by the way. 3, specified manner). In favour of 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 3 (NB and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. Thus, the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been rejected. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. 2 and 3 lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 4-6, elected by a majority (the committee except NB)? The amendments have been adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200312232559	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will be held today in 15 minutes. It's gonna be at 2:00 a.m. 23.45.
