ParlaMint-DK_20200109100022	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 68 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of driving licences in the event of an accident). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100041	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100112	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100129	Thank you. Many Danes have made tattoos in these years, and it must of course be the case that consumer safety is in place, and that is why, of course, we must also make demands on those who carry out tattoos, both on education, registration and supervision. Last year the Danish Parliament decided to amend the law so that in future the Minister of Health will be able to allow people with the right education to carry out cosmetic tattoos, because we today consider that it is so widely recognised that they must be legal to carry out. When we open up new measures, consumer protection should go hand in hand, and then it is also quite right that the requirements for training, supervision and registration should follow, and that is what we are getting under control with this legislation, which ensures that cosmetic tattoo sites are subject to the registration and supervision system and are therefore treated in the same way as traditional tattoo sites. At the same time, the Minister for Health is given the opportunity to make demands in relation to the training for cosmetic tattooists. We are also pleased with the second part of the proposal. It is about giving young people a better chance of getting out of the gang environment. In the future, it will be possible to make so-called cover-up tattoos, i.e. covering tattoos, in connection with exit programmes from the gang environment, also for young people who are not 18 years old. As a starting point, we do not think that young people under 18 should be tattooed, but vice versa, a very square ban should not stand in the way of young people getting help to get out of the gang environment. That is why the Social Democratic Party fully supports the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100322	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100334	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The Tattoo Act, as we know it today, does seem to us to contain a number of sensible boundaries, but with this bill we provide, among other things. an outstretched hand for citizens of this country who have experienced the consequences of serious illness and those who choose to leave the criminal gang and biker environment where the complete removal of tattooed biker and gang-related brands is necessary for a successful withdrawal from the criminal environment. In our view, it is the case that both the people who have experienced serious illness, but also those who are trying to get out of the gang and biker environment, we would like to reach out to offering access to cosmetic tattoo sites that meet hygiene requirements, tattoo colour documentation and consumer information. The bill allows the Minister for Health and the Elderly to lay down rules for the possibility of different cosmetic tattoos in areas covered by the ban and where, for example, laser treatment does not produce a satisfactory result. The Left strongly supports the bill, because it takes into account, among other things: patients and previous patients' ability to improve the quality of life together with these successful exits for former gang members is extremely important for those involved and for society as such. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100506	Thank you. And we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100522	Thank you for that, President. We in the Danish People's Party have worked for many years to regulate the tattoo area, and I have to say that we have sometimes fought a lot alone. In 2009, the Danish People's Party submitted a request that all parties of the Danish Parliament supported. Everyone agreed that there was a need for regulation to the tattoo profession, which ensured that tattooists were trained and qualified to perform tattoos, and that tattoo colours did not contain harmful substances. One of these points in the proposal for adoption was that this authorisation becomes a prerequisite for working as a tattoo artist in Denmark and must be issued by the Ministry of Health and Prevention. However, that agreement ran off and made a voluntary registration, where no one was registered, which we just complained about in the Danish People's Party. We therefore took up the tattoo industry with former health minister Sophie Løhde and then with Ellen Trane Nørby and finally got a regulation in the area, which was made in close cooperation with the tattooists who also wanted proper conditions. With L 134, put forward in 2018, we secured legislation that applied to all tattooists, but the challenge was the cosmetic tattoos, which are performed in a large style, as well as how to set up a hygiene course. We will stick to the provisions we had at the time, so that the rules are made closely with the organisations. And that is why we are also pleased that there are now rules for the cosmetic tattooists. The fact that we are also making legislation for people who have come into an exit programme and that there may be exceptions for young people under 18 who are in an exit programme is also something we are fully in favour of. However, we will be asking questions along the way, for example in relation to the Greenlandic facial tattoos. This is something that our health rapporteur has also raised in the past in relation to the hygiene course, so that the tattooists who have already taken a hygiene course can benefit from it. We will also ask questions about registrations, i.e. how many there should be, how and when supervision takes place, and how the rules of the foreign tattooists work. All in all, however, we support the proposal and are pleased that we can put our legs on something that we have been working on for so many years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100742	Thank you. And we move on. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100751	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. Thank you for the floor. My fellow rapporteurs from both the Social Democrats, the Left and the Danish People's Party have just explained quite well the draft law, so I will not spend the full five minutes explaining the Radical Left's position on this bill. Of course, we are also very pleased that there will now be demands for training and understanding of hygiene, etc. to all tattooists, including those who perform cosmetic tattoos. After all, it is of course important that we know what we are doing when we are doing an intervention that could potentially have a harmful effect on health. So it is very sensible that it should now be corrected. It is also very good that we are now making more tools in the exit programmes so that we can help the gang members who are trying to leave the environment and where it is not possible to remove a tattoo, but where we can then instead cover it. It is quite reasonable that we should be able to do so, of course also in young people under 18 years of age. So all in all, this is a quite sensible legislative proposal in which I do not see the major debates in, but thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100856	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109100905	Thank you for the floor. This is my first speech from the platform, as I am in maternity leave for Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. It's about dare, and it's about saying, "I got it done." That's how Poul Krebs sings, and I'll start by saying that in relation to the first bill, L 88. The bill from the government on tattooists is a technical proposal that has two elements in it. One is to ensure that we can change or remove tattoos on young people under the age of 18 in connection with, for example, an exit programme in relation to gang membership. That, of course, makes sense. Tattoos can have special characteristics so that you can easily identify the individual. It goes without saying that it is a challenge for young people to participate in an exit programme, and an 18-year limit must not prevent the right solution. With the second part of the bill, we provide an approved training for cosmetic tattooists, which is also assessed as a good approach, as it ensures that the health minister can make demands on training and company for tattooers who make these tattoos. In this area, the ban on facial tattoos will also be exempted. The bill helps to correct the shortcomings of the current law and therefore the SF also votes for the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101024	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101035	Thank you for that, President. We are discussing with the bill here today two initiatives aimed at better regulation of the tattoo law. I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten supports the bill. We believe that it is appropriate for there to be better supervision and registration of the places that carry out cosmetic tattoos, so that it is reminded of what applies to the places where traditional tattoos are made. We must be sure that the hygiene and documentation of tattoo colours and consumer information, etc., are kept under control when the Minister has given authority for people to carry out interventions. The Enhedslisten supports the best possible conditions for consumers and, of course, supports the proposal. The second part of the bill is about allowing people who have had band tattoos made to have tattoos made that hide the unwanted tattoos if the unwanted tattoos cannot be removed by laser. The bill opens up that people participating in exit programs and people under the age of 18 can get these cover-up tattoos. For Enhedslisten, it is important that you can regret bad decisions and that you do not hang on, for example. a tattoo for the rest of your life without the possibility of getting rid of it. We also understand that it is planned to clarify that it is not only criminal former gang members who can get hidden tattoos, but that it is more widely people who participate in exit programmes. Of course, we support that too. In the long run, we believe that more people should not only have the opportunity to get hidden inappropriate tattoos that have been regretted and that stigmatize long after the tattoos are made. And then I should say hello from the alternative and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101210	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101224	Thank you. After all, the content of the legislative amendments on which the proposal is based has been well explained and we support the proposal. Most importantly, people under the exit program are given the opportunity to legally cover their tattoos. We are also very pleased that cosmetic tattoo sites are registered and supervised. So, overall, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101250	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101254	Thank you. I'll be brief. In new citizens, we can support the proposal. Basically one may wonder why adult people should not legally be able to be tattooed on their face if that is what they want. But this is a completely different debate. We can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101305	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101313	This bill is a sensible technical bill, which, among other things, is: If consumer safety is raised, then of course we support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101326	Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101336	Thank you. Thank you for your comments, and thank you for receiving the bill, which consists partly of regulation of cosmetic tattooing, and partly of some exceptions to the Tattoo Act's ban on tattooing in the head, on the neck and hands and on tattooing people under 18 years of age for people in the exit process. Today it is forbidden to tattoo in the head, on the neck and on the hands. This is because tattooing in some places cannot be covered with typically used clothing and therefore can cause stigmatisation of the tattooed. The ban also applies to cosmetic tattoo, which is technically tattooed. However, some cosmetic tattoos on the face are so widely accepted and accepted that, in the opinion of the government, they should be legal to carry out. The 2018 Tattoo Act, as the Danish People's Party emphasised here, allows the Minister for Health and the Elderly to lay down rules that persons who have completed a training in cosmetic tattoo with practical and theoretical content, established by a trade association, can perform cosmetic tattoos of eyebrows, hair bottom, upper and lower eyelids and lips. I will soon issue an announcement which, under certain conditions, makes it legal to perform cosmetic tattoo of eyebrows, scalp, upper and lower eyelids and lips. However, it is provided in the comments to the current Tattoo Act that it will require a change of law if cosmetic tattoo sites are to be included in the existing registration and supervision system applicable to traditional tattoo sites, and we of course believe that they should be so that the same requirements are made for consumer safety, whether traditional or cosmetic tattoos. So the purpose of the part of the bill relating to cosmetic tattooing is to extend the current registration and supervision system under the Tattoo Act, so that it also applies to cosmetic tattoo sites in the future. The consequence will then be that cosmetic tattoo sites must be registered with the Security Authority before they start their business in order to legally carry out cosmetic tattoo for professional purposes. This registration will enable consumers to purchase a cosmetic tattoo service at a tattoo site which meets specified requirements for carrying out tattoo activities. It is also proposed that the bill authorizes the establishment, as part of a certain level of consumer protection, of rules on the requirements of the trade associations responsible for training in cosmetic tattooing and requirements on the content of the training. Experience then shows that there are a number of people associated with the gang environment who are motivated to get out of the environment, and we as a society have a very clear interest in helping them with this, and that is why there are exit programmes for gang members. It has been found that the prohibition in the Tattoo Act against tattooing on the head, neck and hands and against tattooing on persons under the age of 18 could constitute an obstacle. The purpose of the bill is therefore also to ensure that the best conditions are created to support gang members in the exit under the authorities' exit programme. So the draft law introduces an exception to these prohibitions. In the case of exits under the national exit programme of the authorities, exit candidates will be allowed to have cover-up tattoos in their heads, necks and hands if deemed necessary for the safety of the exit candidate, etc. In addition, the draft law provides that exit candidates under the age of 18 will be able to receive cover-up tattoos in their heads, necks and hands and that they will also be able to receive cover-up tattoos if deemed necessary for their own safety. I hope that the draft law will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, will be prepared to answer all the questions in this regard. Thank you so far for the first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101758	Thank you for that and so far there are no questions: no more have asked to speak. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101817	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109101834	Thank you. The teeth are, unfortunately, one of the areas where health inequality strikes the most strongly. It has been said many times that you can read a person's social position simply by taking a look at the teeth. This is something we must take very seriously. Lately, this inequality has got a new dimension. We see today that there are parts of the country where there is a marked shortage of dentists. Too many Danes are already a bit of a conqueror to have to go to the dentist, and if you have to wait a long time and travel far, we risk that many will never go. Denmark's Radio was able to clarify where in a large number of municipalities in the country there are municipalities such as Slagelse, Kalundborg, Lolland, Holstebro, Struer, Svendborg, Aabenraa and a large number of other municipalities. It means long waiting times to get to the dentist, and it creates a heightened geographical inequality in our healthcare system. Therefore, it is also important that we make the best possible use of resources in our health care and dental care, and in this respect it is quite obvious to look at what our skilled dental practitioners can do to contribute here and how we can allow them to perform even more tasks independently than they do today, so that we use the dental care professional skills best and at the same time allow the Danes to have good and fast dental care. Dental practitioners are already able to solve a wide range of tasks independently. Self-employed clinics have been established in several places only with dental practitioners, but there are also tasks which can only be done on delegation from dentists. This obviously presents a challenge, especially in the clinics where there are no dentists at all, and in those parts of the country where there is a shortage of dentists. It is therefore a good thing that this proposal extends the tasks which dental practitioners can do independently. In concrete terms, it is a question of administering fluorine and fissure sealing, i.e. lacquer sealing on teeth with caries that require non-operative caries treatment. Hopefully, the proposal will benefit citizens because dental practitioners can now do even more tasks and at the same time free up time for dentists who can be used elsewhere in dental treatment. We certainly do not solve the problems of lack of dentists with this proposal, but we are taking a step in the right direction and hopefully ensuring better use of resources and competences in our dental care. That is why the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102109	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102121	Thank you very much. Dental practitioners or bachelors in dentistry, as they are rightly called, are, after all, a group of our health services which, in our opinion, can, if I may say so, be better exploited. We have probably all got acquainted with a dental practitioner on good and evil terms, and a dental practitioner is not just a caregiver who assists a dentist, but has their own authorization and can therefore, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, be self-practical with his own dental care clinic. This bill improves dental care opportunities to take on dental care tasks. Today, certain dental care tasks must be carried out only after consultation with a dentist, but not all dental practitioners are in a clinical community with a dentist, and the bill therefore gives the dental practitioners more opportunities and thus also a better use of their competences, and for that matter we also use the resources, the resources we have in the Danish health service in general terms, even better. In the Left, of course, we support this proposal that patients' treatment options, if I may say so, be extended. I believe, however, that in the work of the committee we have a few elements which we would like to clarify with the Minister. I can read out of the consultation answers and the consultation material and have also found in other ways that there has been a debate up to this very bill about how it might be that the demarcation lies right here, where it lies, in relation to the tasks that dental practitioners are now being given the opportunity to carry out extra. So in this committee work and I have to say that it will be completely without any confrontational line. I think we should discuss why the demarcation lies right here and whether, on a later occasion or otherwise, it might be possible to consider extending the field of work of dental care even further. But as the situation is right now, we obviously support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102336	Thank you. The next is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102350	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we are glad that the Minister is taking this up. It was a proposal that was also from the previous government and is something we warmly support, as it is important to use the competences we have effectively. We wonder why everything was not included in the previous proposal. There were a few extra things that dental practitioners could easily take as independent work as they trained for it. Having said that, there are other things that could be included in this proposal. Now the dentist area has been broke for nearly two years, and we hope that the Minister for Health will soon take it up and call for negotiations. It was the former Socialist-led government that removed 300 million. kr. from the tooth area, and as far as I have understood from reports that have been around it, among other things. from the PTO, the organization of dental practitioners, was the occasion for budget overruns in this area for several years. Secondly, the Regional Pay and Tax Board, RLTN, could not agree with the Dentist Association on a new agreement in the field of dentistry. We are sorry that, in view of the collapse of the negotiations, the RLTN had to terminate the agreement with the Dentist Association. We would have liked the parties to agree and to find a solution around the negotiating table in which all parties could see themselves. The Danish People's Party then agreed to the Ministry's bill on a budget ceiling in the field of dentistry if we could together ensure a reform in this area, which ensured that not so many people turned in the door of the dentist, because it has gradually become very expensive to have their teeth fixed. What, then, is the implications of this bill? Yes, for the Danish People's Party, it is important that we have a reform in the field of dental health that provides incentives to maintain our teeth. We provide a very good service in child care, and it should be followed up for the rest of our lives. It's a really good investment. Here, dental care comes in just as a good alternative to visiting the dentist, which we can also see that we are beginning to lack in certain areas of Denmark. So I would also like to ask the Minister when something more is going on in this area, and why we cannot see that additional extra money has been set aside for this in the Finance Act. But I would also like to hear the spokesmen of the support parties, because there are many people who chose to make the dental bill cheaper and were also out promising free dental care. I look forward to it. All in all, we support the proposal, but maybe we will come up with proposals for amendments which are more similar to what was on the table. I think we should put forward a major reform in this area and look forward to seeing whether the Minister will call for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102651	Thank you. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102703	Thank you very much. After all, there is a lot of talk about inequality in health and about access to healthcare professionals throughout the country, and this bill is about dental practitioners and not dentists in general. I fully agree that there is a great deal in this area that we can do something about, and we have done some things in the financial law negotiations, which are specifically about dental care. But this specific bill is about making better use of resources, namely the dentists we already have, who are trained and have the skills to carry out certain interventions, but who unfortunately today are not allowed to do so independently, without having a dentist who allows them to do so. With this bill, we will allow dental practitioners to carry out individual operations independently, a few operations, namely fluoride treatment, not fluoride treatment, but fluoride treatment, and fissure sealing, when no surgery is required, and these are two things that they can already do, two things for which they are qualified and which they can now be allowed to do without having a dentist in the clinic. Whether there are other interventions they should be allowed to perform, as Mr. Martin Geertsen mentioned that is something we can look at in the future work. But this bill is something that we fully support on the part of the Radical Left, because it is a sensible use of the resources and competences already available in the health system. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102821	Then it is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102832	Thank you again for the floor. With Bill L 89, we ensure that dental practitioners are given independent authorization to carry out dental tasks such as fluorine treatment and fissure sealing, tasks which dental practitioners can perform today only after a delegation from a dentist. The area of self-employment is characterised both by what is already going on, but it also gives the self-employed dental practitioners better opportunities for their own business. In the SF, we believe that this amendment of the law has long been needed. These are tasks which the dental practitioners, with their professional skills, are in a position to perform. It is also a proposal which the dental practitioners themselves have been working to implement. In SF we are therefore very happy that this independent competence is now becoming reality, and SF is happy to back up on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102928	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109102938	As other rapporteurs have also pointed out, the draft law provides for the extension of the scope of the authorised dental care providers to enable them to carry out fuoride treatment and fissure sealing without a prior delegation of tasks from a dentist. This is a bill that we in the Enhedslist can support. These are treatments which are already being taught in the training as dental care providers, and it is therefore quite reasonable to extend the field of activity. There is absolutely no doubt that in the forthcoming work on a new health agreement we will have to consider whether more tasks can be carried out by authorised health professionals without a prior delegation. Of course, this must be done with close attention to patient safety, which always comes first, but probably we will be able to ensure better use of the resources and competences of authorised healthcare professionals who will benefit patients and improve prevention. That is why we also look forward to being able to clarify, in cooperation with the Board for Patient Safety and the Danish Health Authority, whether there are further tasks to ensure the expansion of business areas. As rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen, also mentioned, also applies to the dental care area, which in the past wanted to be able to treat usurers and extend the right to stunning. It is within their field of education, and we look forward, as I said, to continued discussions with the Danish Health Authority and the Board of Patient Safety, so that we can subsequently extend the scope of the company to include it. However, as I said, we support the draft law and I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103116	Thank you. There is just one question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103121	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech. I agreed with some of the points that we need to look at this area. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the fact that right now there has been a budget debate and that many of the support parties have gone to the polls to ensure a cheaper dental bill. So perhaps the rapporteur can tell us how much has been set aside in the Finance Act to ensure that you get a cheaper dental bill in relation to certain groups. One is what you promise in an election campaign, but another is that it must also be followed by action. So when can we see and when can citizens see that they can get a cheaper dental bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103206	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103207	Thank you. Now it is the case that we have to start negotiating the whole dental sector also in relation to the support that is being given to dentists, and that is not specifically in relation to this bill. However, the rapporteur is asking for what has been laid down in the Finance Act. The amount of 60 million has been set aside. kr. to a pool for free dental treatment for socially vulnerable people, and that is a pool that has not yet been implemented. So how it is specifically designed and implemented, we are waiting, like some negotiations between the parties to the agreements and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, to see. But 60 million have been set aside. kr., and that, of course, is not enough at all. So, in the Enhedslisten, we have put forward a proposal that dental treatment should be free of charge, and that will cost about 7 billion. kr. We have not found them in this Finance Act, but it is clear that it will be something that we will gradually take, and it will probably be one of the things we will be looking at in the negotiations that will be going on throughout the dental sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103301	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103303	Thank you for your answer. After all, the dental sector has been in decline for quite some time now, precisely after collective bargaining and those things, so when does the Enhedslisten expect these negotiations to start? It may be that Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) you are a little closer to the government • has a bid for when the rapporteurs are called for negotiations. For it is of course important that we, as Parliament, have both the means put into effect, but also the field of dental health, particularly in relation to the socially vulnerable. But there are also very many pensioners who do not have as much money as we could think of in these debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103344	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103345	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur has so much faith in the Enhedslisten that we can decide when the Minister will call for negotiations. But I think the Minister will eventually decide that. However, I fully agree that we need to have a look at this area, because there is a fundamental unfairness in the fact that dental health is viewed differently from health. Well, there shouldn't be a difference between having a tooth hurt or having a leg hurt, or having a tooth broken or a leg broken. There should be the same access to treatment. So that's definitely some of what we need to look at. As I said earlier, we have proposed that it should be equal so that there was no user charge. It does not come in the first place, but it is certainly one of the things we must gradually ensure. That's one of them. That, the 60 million. kr. to the socially vulnerable in the Finance Act should help ensure: that we bite by bit ensure that there is less user charge on dental treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103433	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. The next one is sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103444	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party we think it is quite right that the time has come to extend the scope of dental care. Dental health is incredibly important, not only for our teeth in isolation, but good dental health also has a great effect on our other health. There is, after all, a great lack of capacity in the dental sector, which is why it is quite natural to look at the field of activity of dental care. After all, we are seeing very long waiting times to come to dental examinations and dental treatment, and here the dental practitioners are important and professional actors, and it is important that their competences are used to the best possible extent. The expansion of the business area of dental care clinics is a very good thing, and one might say this could also save the public from perhaps having to go to a dedicated dentist. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103535	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103540	New citizens can also support the proposal. We would just like to say at the time of the committee's reading that we may also be able to look at what is called wire analgesia and acid fillings, and whether it was also some things that needed to be included. So there's a whole range of things that we might also be able to see if we can include in this bill. But basically, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103555	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103603	Thank you for the floor. I welcome this bill as a health rapporteur because it increases the supply of dental care services. However, as a research rapporteur, I am also pleased that it creates a labour market for bachelors and, as someone who lives in a rural area, I am pleased that this is particularly beneficial to rural areas. So that is three things, and that is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103629	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103644	Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments and receipt of this bill. With this bill, we propose to extend the scope of dental care and thus give dental practitioners independent access to several treatments without a delegation from a dentist. Nowadays, before the adoption of the bill, authorised dental practitioners have the right to perform a number of tasks independently in dentistry, including dental care. Patient examination, removal of hard dental coatings and root smoothing, plastering and polishing of dental restorations and local anesthetics, but dental care must not, on the other hand, independently perform fluoride treatment and fissure sealing on teeth with caries that require non-operative caries treatment, unless this is done by delegation from a dentist. This is particularly important for self-employed dental practitioners who have a self-employed dental care clinic, since there are no dentists employed there. The Board of Patient Safety has set up a working group which has assessed precisely this, i.e. the professional competences of dental practitioners in terms of fluoride treatment and fissure sealing, and the Board of Patient Safety has, on the basis of the Working Group's assessment, recommended to the Ministry of Health and the Elderly that the field of activity of dental care should be extended to fluoride treatment and fissure sealing on teeth with caries requiring non-operative caries treatment. And based on that recommendation from the board, the Ministry therefore considers that dental practitioners should be able to carry out fluoride treatment independently and fissure sealing on teeth with caries that require an operating caries treatment. With the proposed change, dental practitioners who have an independent dental care clinic will thus be able to extend their range of treatments to the benefit of patients. Thus, with the proposed change, patients are given several places to have these minor dental treatments as it is. I look forward to the committee reading and will, of course, answer any questions the committee may have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103850	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103855	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. As the Minister could indeed hear, there are some rapporteurs who really want to get started in this area, so I would like to ask the Minister for Health: when will the Minister call for negotiations in this area so that we can sort of move forward and have a good reform in the dental sector? In addition to the challenges we know about this bill, we also know that there are a number of other challenges ahead. So if the Minister could set a date on when that happens and tell us what the time perspective is, then I am sure our health rapporteur would be very happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109103934	Thank you for that comment. I would also like to sign for the second comment. That is not what this draft law is all about, but I recognise that there is a broad political interest in the area, and we have heard that from the rapporteurs here today. In the Ministry we are doing a very, very thorough analysis, and before we have completed that work, I will of course not call for negotiations, but when we are done with it, I will do so. But I'd like to tell you something about my ambitions in this area. The ambition is to clear up the whole structure we have in the dental sector, where there is today ■ there I think we should listen carefully to the Socialist rapporteur's speech ■ a very, very large degree of inequality when it comes to the opportunities of the Danes and the large amount of user charges that exist. So my approach to this would be to put an end to inequality, but it would require a great deal of analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104036	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104038	Yes, that is, everything can be subjected to an analysis or a working group or something else can be set up. It's about the time perspective in this area. Inequality in health is well known to us, and that is why we also wondered at the time that the Socialist-led government was saving in this area when it came to cleaning and financing it in prisons. But now that we are talking about the time perspective, the Minister will have to go a little further about when this thorough analysis work is finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104109	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104110	This government, just as Enhedslisten also pointed out, has taken the first step in the fight against social inequality in dental health by giving priority to 60 million in our first Finance Act. kr. to increase efforts in relation to socially exposed dental problems. I recognise that one can be impatient and that is how I am by nature too, but we must also ensure that we do so thoroughly, because these are so important key issues we are dealing with here, so work must therefore be done very thoroughly before we go to the political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104149	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104203	The debate is open. Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104220	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. The proposal deals with the possibility for waste water companies to co-finance municipal and private climate projects, where roofing and surface water are removed from the water bill of consumers. It is rather remarkable that the same proposal was dealt with in this Chamber exactly two years ago. At that time, the proposal was shot to the corner with reference to the fact that an analysis work had to be carried out. Here 2 years later, a solution is still not presented, and I can actually understand if the industry and municipalities and Enhedslisten are becoming impatient; so am I. Since then, there has been a parliamentary election, an election marked by the climate agenda, and a new and greener government came out of it. The government has already set ambitious targets for future climate policy with the 70-percent reduction target, and with the Climate Act a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has committed itself to that objective. When the new government took office, we also promised that we would look into climate change adaptation. We intend to keep that promise, because the climate crisis is very much already upon us. That is why we need solutions that will ensure us against the weather we have today and against the weather we know we will experience in the future. Here the municipalities and waste water companies are already making a great effort with local climate adjustment. It is a necessity today and it will be a necessity for future generations. That is why I think it is very good that the Enhedslisten has tabled this resolution and I think that the overall principles are very good. The proposal from the Enhedslisten that we are discussing here today is about the co-financing rules, but that regulation only regulates one part of the climate adjustments of the waste water companies. The future will offer great investment in climate adjustment • it applies both to solutions above ground and to traditional solutions underground. Therefore, it is important that we look at climate adjustment more broadly than just looking at one set of rules. I fully agree that the rules we have today are not the right ones. There can be no doubt that we need to ensure better opportunities for cheap and efficient climate adaptation, which will benefit the most. And we must ensure that the rules are properly designed so that we get the best projects going. That is why, since we took office, the government has been working on a proposal for new rules and we have found a number of drawbacks to the rules we now have, which we believe should be corrected. That is why we are going to look at the rules on climate change adaptation broadly and therefore more broadly than is proposed in this motion for a resolution. We are not entirely in line with the wording of the proposal, but I will call for discussions on it as soon as possible. And I would suggest that we take up the discussions in a broad circle of municipalities and waste water companies is not served by the fact that the funding arrangements change over time. It's time to get these rules straight, but that doesn't mean we have to make short-term solutions that create uncertainty as to what the rules of the future will bring. We look into a future with more extreme weather events, with more rain, more floods, etc. It has never been more important that the rules in this area support good climate adaptation. That is why I am very much looking forward to discussing climate adjustments with the parties shortly, so that we can ensure a solid long-term solution in this area. And I look forward to discussing at that time both all the good elements with which the motion for a resolution is concerned, but also the important elements which are not included in the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104616	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104619	Thank you. This resolution should not be adopted for the sake of the Enhedslisten. This resolution must be adopted in the interests of the citizens who experience their cellars being flooded. We must take account of the municipalities that actually want to move on with some projects that they have in the drawer and that they do not carry out, because these projects to deal with rainwater, which remains on the surface, are in competition with the renovations of schools and the like. I understand the municipal councillors who give higher priority to school maintenance than to create new solutions that handle rainwater on the surface. I don't really think it's that complicated. Well, it's kind of just going back to the rules that applied under Thorning. It wasn't all that was good then, but this is just a point where it was better under Thorning's government. I note that if you look at the KL's presentation yesterday, it is quite clear on page 9 that it says: the ability of supply companies to finance fully climate adjustment projects must be reinstated. And then there's half a page on it. I am well aware of the fact that there are rising groundwater and such things elsewhere, but does the Minister not see that it is actually quite simple to adopt this proposal tabled by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104727	Thank you. And here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104728	Well, you might make that quite simple, but I may not quite understand why I over-interpret too, so maybe that's why if there's a little hostility in the questioner's way of attacking it here, because I think I made it quite clear that I support the intentions of the proposal. What I saw, too, is that there are other things that relate to this. In other words, the climate adjustment that is being carried out by the waste water companies is not just about these things. There are a large number of other elements which should also be considered. There are, for example: extensions of own facilities and basins, which are not linked to the co-financing rules, which, if we have different rules, are in danger of causing difficulties. In other words, we then have companies that have to operate in different sets of rules with different projects. We do not think that is clever, and I am actually quite sure that the rapporteur will agree with me when we sit down and discuss things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104833	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104835	You can always come up with reasons for not doing anything now, but I hope that these negotiations will take place very soon so that we can move forward. And I am a little disappointed, because if you look at what the report was written when we last tabled the proposal from the Enhedslisten, we actually came up with a report which the Social Democracy, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF also supported, and in this way the basic view was that municipal cofinancing should be reduced to zero. So I do not see that it is so complicated to get started on this, but if the negotiations mentioned by the Minister are some that are going on shortly before the climate action plans, I think that is satisfactory. Is this how it will take place in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104919	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104920	Now you have to be careful, because you can define exactly in a little bit differently, depending on what person you are and what temper you have. But yes, this is something that we will be calling for very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104931	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109104937	Thank you very much. I would like to sign for the government's positive attitude to this proposal. I totally share Søren Egge Rasmussen's love for the old rules, since I made them. There is nothing wrong with them, they were quite reasonable, and I also understand that that is what KL proposes we do. So in addition to starting there, which is, of course, a very large, well thought-out solution, which we made at the time, when we can say that there is only a little more water, but that there is not much else that is different from that, I think that there is a theme that we should dare to take up now, and that is where we are building the new houses. Planning does not necessarily lie with the Minister, but we should actually talk about the fact that it can be enormously attractive to lie right down to the water or lie somewhere beautiful in a valley, but it is not certain that that is where we have to build right now, because it may be the houses that are flooded in 5 and 10 years' time. So should we not also think in terms of security of the future and dare say that there are some places where we simply no longer have to build because it is too exposed areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105030	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105032	The latter is really not my resort area, so I'd better not comment on that, but thank you for the positive words. If I should add something, it is that just because there have been good rules in the past, it is not the same as not being able to make them yet. I really think that both rapporteurs who have spoken here will agree with me when they see the proposal I am presenting very soon, that it is very wise to think some things together a little wider so that we do not have different rules. After all, we share one hundred percent of the intentions that the opportunities for making better and more efficient and ambitious climate adjustment in the municipalities need to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105114	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105116	That sounds exciting. In other words, more than a hundred percent cofinancing, or where are we? What is the Minister's idea? Could the Minister open up a little to the bag in relation to what it is that can be even better, that is to say what one imagines?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105131	Yes, this is because the waste water companies are not just making projects that require co-financing. They also have other types of projects, which are also regulatory rules. And there I am just saying in all silence that I will allow myself to believe that the rapporteur will agree with me that it is probably very wise for us to think together those rules so that we do not operate with different rules. In fact, without being in the debate myself, the last time it was taken in this Chamber, I believe that this was one of the things that several of you also stressed was a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105205	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. Then we start with the rapporteur's series, and that is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105218	Thank you. Climate change is not just a phenomenon of the future, but unfortunately something that is already happening today. Therefore, it is also important that we create the optimal framework for climate adaptation, among other things. when it comes to handling increased amounts of rain. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Enhedslisten and addresses this very issue. More specifically, it is proposed to reinstate the so-called 100-percent co-financing scheme so that waste water companies do not depend on 25%. local co-financing. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the rules governing precisely co-financing projects could work much more appropriately than they do today. The rules we had from 2013 were better than those we had from 2016 and we listen when the municipalities say that they find it difficult to participate in some of the projects. However, although we agree with the intentions of the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is also a slightly narrow focus, which only addresses the rules on cofinancing, and although we understand and share the eagerness to deliver on the climate commitments that we have to the Danes, we believe that it is better that we look at the rules in the context of broader action in the area of climate adaptation. The government is currently working on a broader proposal which deals precisely with climate adjustment, and for this reason the Social Democrats do not support the resolution, as we believe it should be included in a broader context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105343	Thank you. There's just one question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105350	After all, it is always fun to observe what happens when a party becomes government-driven and to what extent there is a competition about how much a minister can go together with the wallpaper and the officials and, like taking over in the system and what should I say, do not adopt the same positions that have been taken in the past. I really think it is a little disturbing that this is what is happening and that it can happen as quickly to a government that has had such a short life span as the government has had up to now. When you have had good debates in the past and when you have KL, which draws attention to problems and points to solutions, why not implement those solutions? And why, then, do you have to make the big plans where you solve all the problems in the water area at once? I think that is a strange approach and I would like to call for the Social Democrats to be more able to listen to their parliamentary basis and to look at what problems they really want to solve. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has read what KL announced yesterday, where this proposal was very clearly recommended.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105457	Yes, I have informed myself in KL's catalogue of ideas and think it is a very good catalogue with a lot of good ideas. I would also like to point out that it is important that we look at this in a broader context and that we look at initiatives that play well together. That is why I fully support the Minister's announcement that there will soon be a move, and we look forward to the negotiations that will take place on this. I also think that I recognise that there are problems in the way the co-financing rules work today and that I said that we liked the rules that were earlier. So I kind of think that mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen kicks in an open door.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105534	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105538	But the open door is there, and the water level is rising, and water can enter that door. The municipalities have seen projects that they have prepared. I mean, we've seen something that's just waiting for local cofinancing. Then you can move on with major projects that can prevent people's homes from being affected by the next heavy rainstorm or a hurricane or whatever it may be. I think that if you do not get the country that solution very quickly, then it is basically the social democracy that is responsible for people having their basements flooded again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105611	I'm sure we're going to have a really good process of climate adjustment, and also about how we're going to look at some of these issues, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105620	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105628	Climate change is the most important political challenge of our time. That is why, of course, climate change and its consequences must be a priority for us politicians, for business, for civil society and, of course, for local authorities as well. I would therefore also like to thank the Enhedslisten for this motion for a resolution and for raising an important debate. Climate change poses an urgent problem, but urgent problems also call for wholehearted and wholehearted action, whether the problems are caused by rising water levels or severe cloudbreaks. The motion for a resolution we are debating here forms the basis. We in the Left recognise that there are shortcomings in the current climate adjustment arrangements, but we do not see that this resolution is the solution. Although climate change requires us to act and act quickly, we also need to act in the right way, because climate change does not give us time to make bad decisions. For the same reason, the means to get the green shift up in gear should be used with care and thoughtful thought. Speaking of reflection: When an evaluation of the municipalities' climate adjustment projects from 2017 shows that the 100-percent co-financing scheme gives rise to incentive problems, we also need to stop and think. If the utilities are to bear all the municipality's costs for climate adjustment projects, there is not the same financial responsibility in the projects and there will be no upper limit on what ordinary consumers have to pay for them through higher prices over the water bill. We in the Left do not think this is the right solution. We in the Left would like to help ensure that there is sufficient climate change in the municipalities and that this is also done in a balanced manner and with respect for the citizens' money. That is why we think it is good that the municipalities have a responsibility for financing climate adjustment projects. So those who pay the bill are also looking at the right side of the menu. They divide the price, and in that account they make the most responsible decisions. That is why we also believe that it is sensible for the Danish citizens to be able to keep in their ears afterwards the urban roots they have chosen. It is a more democratic solution that the elected representatives in the municipalities are helping to target climate adjustment projects by helping to pay for them. But, of course, we fully agree that there is a challenge with investment in climate adjustment projects in the municipalities, and we will also look favourably on solutions from the government. I heard the Minister start by looking at the rules. We would like to take a positive view of these discussions so that we can have a broad and sustainable solution. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105926	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109105936	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for raising a very relevant debate. The other day, a new report from Danske Regionser said that 468,000 buildings could be affected by floods in the coming years. It is especially buildings along creeks with shallows and along the coasts where you risk being hit by floods like the ones you've seen at Gudenåen in the last few weeks. It is not a distant future, it is specific problems that are present here and now, and we must of course have a plan for that. Everyone can imagine how unpleasant it must be as a homeowner in these areas to live in eternal uncertainty about when the next rainfall will come, when to go out and gather sandbags and prepare for it. We have a duty to help. That is how far we are in complete agreement with the Enhedslisten. With the financing model, we will have so little challenge. As you know, it has been the case in the past that the water companies covered investments by 100%, and that model was criticised because it led to overinvestment. It is too easy to send the bill to the water users. Today there are 25 per cent. local co-financing in the projects, and thus there is also better control of the projects being carried out. All other things being equal, it is preferable that it be elected politicians who take decisions in the open space and answer for the decisions they have taken. In this way, the municipality's money will be properly committed, which is why we prefer a certain amount of local cofinancing. I don't care if it's 25 percent. or another percentage, we are, of course, very open to discussing. The municipalities are also subject to a number of restrictions, in relation to how much and how to use the municipality fund on construction projects and in relation to climate adjustments, and this, of course, presents challenges because there are some things you don't get done because you have to renovate a school or have other challenges in the municipalities. We are happy to help change the framework for how the co-financing of the municipalities should be. We are also very excited to hear the Minister's response to the report from Danske Regions, and we naturally expect the issue of climate adjustment to play a major role in the negotiations on the climate action plan, which will soon be convened. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110148	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110152	Thank you. In relation to these considerations about the financing of this type of project, it is now the case that with the schemes where the municipality has to co-finance at 25 per cent, it counts in the plant ceiling if the municipality is to be involved in investing in some rainwater solution on the surface and it is given priority rather than maintaining a school or other sensible thing. There I could then hear from the rapporteur that one would like to help look at another funding. Is it to be understood that Dansk Folkeparti will help to change the conditions surrounding the plant ceiling and will help to ensure that there are certain elements that do not count in the municipal plant ceiling, such that the municipalities, for example, will be able to do so. could have part-financing in the climate action, which did not talk to in the construction ceiling, so that the municipalities that have money could thus afford to invest more than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110248	But it is a real challenge where you have to choose whether to do one or the other, because you only have one sum of money; then there is something that is not done, and in some cases it may be climate adjustment projects. And that is too bad because it is a very real problem. Well, that's an interesting model, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen comes with this, i.e. it should not count in the plant ceiling. It is difficult to stand here and say whether you are for or against such a model, but it might be interesting to see a piece of paper on it at least. And then we have to decide whether this is the right model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110322	Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110324	Thank you. I just want to know if the Danish People's Party thinks that too much money is being invested in climate adjustment in the municipalities or too little money in climate adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110337	You can't say that. There are relevant things to be done in the municipalities. The elderly must be able to enter their homes to be refurbished in schools to build new crèches. Is it more important than the climate, or is it not more important than the climate? It's very wrong to put it up like that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110352	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110353	So the Danish People's Party prefers the Danes to pay this bill over their insurance premiums with damaged cellars, with flooded roads, with devastation for large values for society. A rainfall in Copenhagen cost 9 billion. kr. It would be significantly cheaper • perhaps a fraction of the price to go in and invest them before. But I have to understand from the Danish People's Party that you think that the climate adjustment is going super well in the municipalities, and that all the Danes can feel safe now because you think that there is enough investment in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110421	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110422	That's bullshit. It's about priorities in the municipalities. They have a fixed ceiling, and they have the sum of money they have. I don't remember the second question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110443	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110452	Thank you very much. At any rate, I can give a clear answer to the question: No, there is not enough investment in climate adaptation in the municipalities. Is it expensive? Yeah, it's very expensive. Because we're going to pay for the cleanup, and we're going to pay for broken homes... people who have to go digging their properties out of their cellars that are smashed, and people who can't get insured because they live in areas where their homes are in constant danger of being flooded. And is it cheaper to prevent than clean up? Yes, it is. So of course we need to get the municipalities going on this task, and it is far better to pay a small part of their water bill together, collectively, to ensure that the municipality actually makes sure that the water gets to the right places to do so, for example. can be picked up in a natural area where you can make a lake, as you have done on Funen and in Frederikssund, or that you can create a large playground where you can have an adaptation plan at the same time, where the children do not even realize that it is actually a flood facility they run around and skate or play in. This can be done because the municipalities can go out with the utilities and make better solutions than digging larger sewers and getting it all underground. However, when we do not have the right funding mechanisms, and therefore we in the Radicals believe that a step that can be undoubtedly taken is what the Enhedslisten is proposing today, namely to allow 100 per cent. co-financing, so that this can get started. And it's not like there's no brake on this. There is, of course, a supply secretariat which grants permits and which I think is actually too restrictive at the moment in terms of getting these things going. I am delighted that the Minister is saying that he is taking this area seriously. We've been waiting for years for something to happen to happen to the previous government, so from the point of view of radicals, we're gonna knock on the door of the minister's door continuously to make sure this isn't gonna be something we're just talking about, and then maybe we're gonna do something, because these climate changes are happening now, and this is the time for us to be able to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110656	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110658	Now I just remembered what I would have said to Mrs Ida Auken, and then I can ask the other way: does Mrs Ida Auken think it is reasonable to send the bill to the water users without any upper limit, by the way, of how much such a bill can end up on because there is no upper limit to how much one can invest in the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110717	Well, that's nonsense. There's an upper limit. After all, there is a supply secretariat that is state-owned and says yes or no to projects. There is another limit, which is that it must be cheaper than going out and building sewers. So it is a question of whether we want responsible municipalities to ensure that the things that are underground are also dealt with by the things that are not discovered until things go wrong. After all, it is a question of the municipalities going out and making the effort, because as far as what stands is concerned, it may seem more obvious to give the primary school money than to ensure that people's homes are not flooded. But believe me, when you swim around the streets, people are looking at the town and asking, "Why didn't you do something?" Because they expect municipalities to be responsible. So again I have to say to the Danish People's Party: it is irresponsible not to give the opportunity that wise municipal councils, together with their utilities, can take some of this over the water price, because it is so much cheaper than it is to have to pay for clean-up and higher insurance premiums.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110813	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110815	However, does Mrs Ida Auken not agree that it is good that there is some democracy and that there are some elected representatives who have to answer for this, so that it is not something that is very far away from the citizens, but so that you can put your local city roots to account for what they may have done or have not done in their municipal council?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110834	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The supply companies cannot simply bypass the municipalities. It sounds like a utility company can just sit and fire a lot of money off. That's not the way it is; you can't do these things without the municipalities. The only question is whether you can help finance some of it over the water bill. And isn't it better to spend 20 kroner? a year, as if we figured out that one's water bill would increase on average per year. family, over 500 kroner. in a rising insurance premium? Isn't it smarter because you do it collectively and together? I understand that the Danish People's Party does not intend to take responsibility for this matter either, and it is of course really a pity for the Danes who get flooded home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110915	We don't have to call on God in here, we're trying to take care of ourselves. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109110921	Thank you. Then we'll have to take care of it ourselves. I would like to thank the Radicals for their support. It is true that we have this Supply Secretariat that is watching the supply companies. But when we talk about this economy, we also have to see that in the municipalities where you have these waste water companies, which may have different names and which may have different tasks, they have some budgets, which are usually approved by the city councils. We have usually representatives who are appointed by the city councils to sit in these waste water companies. So I think it is a rather strange debate that has arisen here, that it should be a great risk if it is the local waste water companies that should be responsible for the whole project and also the whole financing of it. I do not see at all that anyone should go to do projects that were too imaginative. I can see a disadvantage in that if you get into something where the recreational value of such facilities on the surface is very high and where you obviously have to keep an eye on how many play equipment you want to fund it or whether it has to be handled in other ways. So I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that there is control of this if we adopt the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111032	I can only say that the Radical Left also has confidence in local democracy, and we do not think it is Christiansborg who should govern everything. So here is a place where we dare to let this kind of decision go further into the municipalities in cooperation with the utilities, and then we are confident that the Supply Secretariat will put an end to it, precisely if you start to over-exploit it, for example. by paying for large parts of a playground.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111058	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111102	Well, that is because the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten actually now mentions the fact that there are local representatives. I have been on the board of Aarhus Water for 4 years, and I have helped to make these plans for sewer separation and other water adjustments. So there are a large number of things going on, including things where the bill is already being placed on the private consumer. The entire sewer separation is a pretty big cost for the individual parcel houses, and it can be 40,000 to 50,000 to 60,000, yes, 70,000 to 80,000 kr. So it is not the case that a massive expenditure is not already being spent on the citizens. Secondly, I would like to arrest that argument when it is constantly said that there have been several extreme weather phenomena. So there is no evidence of this coming in Denmark. There is simply no record of it. So you have to be careful that you have a gut feeling about these things and make them a reality. The same is true when it is said that the water level is rising significantly. Nor is there any evidence that it has been done over the past 100 years. So you have to be careful with these guts that you have. I would just like to say that we are, therefore, imposing a great deal of expenditure on the citizens out there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111209	I am, of course, annoyed that New Citizens are once again popping out as climate crisis deniers. You can go out and talk to those who know about this. You can go out and ask the DMI if there have been no more 100-year-olds... they only come every 100 years now, or do they come ten-year-olds? Of course, we can spend our time on that. I don't think we should do that now. So I am going to deal with what the rapporteur is asking, and that is after all: who should pay? If it is not the Danes in one way or another who have to pay for the rainwater to come under control, then who is it? Are these the companies? Now I must not call on the Lord, but one could then ask who else would have to pay the bills if it is not the Danes who live in this country who can be flooded, who will have to pay if you have to find proper common solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111253	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111254	I love the arrogant way in which the Radical Left addresses others. Because we've been asking what DMI says about this, and DMI says: According to the DMI, there is currently no inventory of the frequency of extreme weather phenomena for 1950 until today. So we've asked DMI. Stop with the arrogant approach! We're just asking the professionals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111320	Have you also asked DMI if there have been more frequent cases of 100-year events? Have you asked DHI, who is doing the modelling of how the floods are happening in Denmark? No, you haven't, because then you wouldn't be questioning whether there's been more weather, if there's been more floods in Denmark. There is no doubt about that. I think it is a pity that New Citizens are jumping on the climate crisis deniers' team instead of solving the problem, and that is something we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111350	One only speaks from the platform when one has asked for the floor and received it. And you don't use direct charges. Mrs Ida Auken's speaking time is now over. And then it's sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111408	Thank you. Unfortunately, our climate rapporteur, Mrs Signe Munk, did not have the opportunity to take part in the first reading here, and that is why I have promised her to read her speech. Climate change is increasing and we have to deal with large amounts of water. We therefore need to speed up climate adjustment and cut off the pressure on our sewer systems, which is already causing the increasingly intense weather. The SF will therefore implement the 100-percent co-financing scheme and we therefore welcome the resolution. We were also one of the parties that introduced in 2013 that the utilities could enter into with 100 per cent. financing, the so-called 100-percent co-financing scheme, when surface solutions were to be carried out in the municipalities as part of the climate adjustment. However, with the current scheme, which is the result of the change of the Left Government in 2016, the municipalities will have to co-finance 25%. of climate adjustment projects, too many projects are put on standby because there is no room in municipal budgets. This has led to unnecessary slowing down of climate adjustment. That is why we in the SF are in favour of the proposed proposal, just as we were in 2018. We have even proposed in the past that the 100-percent co-financing scheme be re-introduced, and we believe that this system can be introduced immediately. There is nothing to prevent that from happening in our eyes, and therefore it is unnecessary to wait for a longer explanation of this. The resolution also contains other fine elements that we would like to continue working on in dialogue with the municipalities. However, the proposal here cannot stand alone. We need an overall climate adjustment plan, and we are therefore pleased that the Minister expects to convene negotiations on this matter shortly. I should also like to welcome the alternative and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111549	Thank you. No one has any comments, so we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111606	Thank you for the floor. We are, of course, pleased that Enhedslisten addresses a problem of financing the climate adjustment projects that are increasingly needed in the municipalities, because there is actually an average increase in rainfall in Denmark of 10%. We also see an increase in the number of storm floods etc., so we are at least now talking about 300-year scenarios for the Metro Company. So these are major problems we are facing. But there are some problems with that proposal. Firstly, if they are not also project owners, the 100-percent co-financing and the fact that the utilities are made the developers and carry out will pose a problem for the utilities, because they must be able to write off what they invest, and they also have a challenge with the municipalities' loan framework. So there are some financing problems in this that need to be looked at first. Secondly, there is a problem in this, although it was said by the Radicals that there is a ceiling, but in linking these climate adjustments and the bill for it to our water consumption, I would say that there is something that is not entirely connected. When we look at the financing of storm tides and rising sea level, we see that it has a different financing model. Perhaps we were going to look more at these things in general, because we actually also have many coastal municipalities that have water coming from above, from below and now also from outside the sea. Those things are connected. We have to look at this because it is a challenge that these climate adjustment projects have come to a standstill, and that is what is being promised with these 25%, which the municipalities are not now going to finance, but they are also limited in their capacity. I myself have had the pleasure of also sitting in a municipality in this area, and it's a challenge because these expenses are growing and growing. So with those words, I would say that this is a problem that we must address, but Conservatives cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111814	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111817	I just need to know who the Conservatives are planning to pay for this. Is it, then, the taxpayers who have to pay for people in other municipalities having problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111828	This requires a more nuanced debate. After all, it is a national phenomenon that we have the problem of getting water both at the top and at the bottom and also from the sea. So if we go with one model of funding for sea water coming in and the pilots and beach owners who are the first to pay too much of it, then we have another problem if it goes over parks, roads, citizens. We have to look at it differently. We've got one of them. In the past, a fund was also proposed to look at how we support these climate adjustment problems, for example. By storm tide, the houseowners are not the first to pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111904	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111906	I understand that as a yes. It's so tax-financed. Because it is not the case that we can draw money from some machine somewhere else. I guess there's something fair about people getting local ownership and getting a bid that now they've been fortunate enough to have a house first; it might be a little more expensive than lying in the seventh row or lying in a municipality where you don't have a coast. There must also be something about some local conditions where costs are linked to tasks. So I just have to understand: is it completely out of the question for the Conservatives that some of this can also be taken on a water bill because it is actually a collective solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109111940	We don't want to rule it out at all. But I would also like to say that there is a problem. Now I have also talked to utilities about this particular bill, and what they are saying is that, as it says here, there is a challenge if they are not project owners too. For then they do not have full ownership and they cannot write off their investments, and there is a problem with the loan framework that they can go out to in the municipalities. In fact, many have already reached the ceiling. So we need to look at what kind of financing this is that could be in the supply companies. We are totally open to finding an opportunity to look at this, including with the utilities and water companies. We just can't vote "yes," as it says here. Because what needs to be done is more complex. So it takes a little more work. But we'd like to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112025	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112033	Thank you. Our rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to fill in. First of all, we cannot support the proposal. Secondly, I would like to address this folly which has crept into the debate that one can be a climate objector. Now I am a schoolteacher, and even my students know that the climate has always been here and has always changed. So that one should deny that the climate is changing is simply a foolishness of rank. Now I can see that there are schoolchildren in the public gallery, and all schoolchildren who have had biology or natural sciences know that there have always been natural and climate change. So should we not stop it by saying that someone is denying that the climate is changing? I haven't talked to a single person, even in the fourth grade, who denies that the climate is changing. So when we look at these climate changes, we just have to remember to bring the facts about these things. I think you often forget that. Now it came here with the weather phenomena that there have been many more extreme weather phenomena in Denmark, and we can see that. But we just can't. Fortunately, DMI has now decided that by 2020 they will make an inventory of it to see if there is actually any evidence that from 1950 until now we have had more extreme weather phenomena in Denmark. When you ask DMI, they answer, and it is not even DMI who answers, it was actually the good climate minister, Dan Jørgensen, who answered a question we have asked that there is not at present an inventory of the frequency of extreme weather phenomena from 1950 until today. So it's the minister himself who says that this statement doesn't exist. I think it makes sense for the DMI to start making an inventory of this. Because if there is one thing we should be able to gather together, then it is that any debate must take place and be based on facts. Then there's a little funny thing when we talk about all this climate stuff. In my optics it's a bit more complex than just putting it into a CO2 but if you do it and make it into a CO2 it's only 6 mm long. What does such a little crayfish mean? It actually means a lot, because this crayfish is recording CO2 If there's an increase in the population of these tiny crayfish of 0.3 percent, it's like the whole of Denmark's CO2 that's pretty amazing, right? An increase of 0.3%. in the population of some small crayfish that live down around Antarctica and that the whales eat would actually mean that all of Denmark's consumption of CO2 is just one example of how when we have the climate debate, there are so many things that make this so complex that you have to be careful to make it a simple account, where you put a small tax on a fifty on a flight, and then it all just goes out there. It's more complex than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112400	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112405	Now I live next to a large road where the municipality has chosen to lay down some much larger pipes because they expect more rain with all forecasts. Should I understand that my municipality simply operates completely blindly and that we know nothing about the weather changing and there will be more rainfall?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112427	You're gonna have to ask your community about that. I have no knowledge of that at all. I don't even know what municipality you live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112431	Please don't talk directly to people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112436	That must then be the conclusion of what the rapporteur says, namely that we do not have this knowledge. So in reality, climate adjustment does not actually make sense, because we do not know at all that there will be more rain and more violent weather. That is what the rapporteur has been saying, and that is why I must also assume, regardless of the municipality in which you live, who has bothered to spend any money on climate adjustment, that that money has simply been wasted. Is it my understanding that all the municipalities in Denmark that have spent money preparing for a new weather and dealing with greater rainfall have simply done something superfluous, something that we do not know at all and which is simply based on thin air?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112517	So the rapporteur must listen to what I am saying. I concluded that from 1950 until now there was no record of what it was like. We can predict the future, and a lot of people do, and we have some climate models that do. Common to these climate models, who have been here, is that they have been notoriously wrong • notoriously wrong about how it has actually developed, so I would be very nervous if you only hang your hat on some climate models. But if there are some individual municipalities that is why we have the municipal self-government who think they have some problems and predict that there will be some problems with precipitation, well then I think it is reasonable that they are responding to it, but I should not interfere in that centrality from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112600	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112603	DMI has been referred to several times, and DMI has already developed the so-called climate atlas, where they just describe that our weather is becoming more and more extreme. And the climate atlas needs to be used and used in the municipalities, and the municipalities are currently facing the huge burden of climate adjustment. There are also municipalities which have large infrastructure, which are used by many others, for example. the motorway line at Lyngbyvejen, which was heavily flooded in 2011 and again and again afterwards. There are some municipalities here with the big bills, among others. in relation to some critical infrastructure projects that others also enjoy. And that's why it's important that we look at this funding and not just say that the model that's running now can just continue. Because it does not seem that it can, because that is why the proposal is being taken up, because climate projects have stalled and there is a lack of funding. But look at DMI's climate atlas... I would urge you to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112705	Now I was referring to the DMI. But if you look at what the municipalities are doing, you often hear that when you give priority to schools above climate, as I heard from another rapporteur. And that is simply not correct. Now I come from the municipality of Aarhus, where I have been in Aarhus City Council and where 60 per cent. 60 per cent of all schools are out of date. kr. In a climate fund, right? So it is not true, the fact that everything else is given priority over climate. The municipalities are already spending very, very many millions making the adjustments if they think it makes sense. Then I can have a personal opinion as to whether I think what they are doing in the municipalities is right, but it is municipal self-government; it is their money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112747	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112748	I think the rapporteur is just pointing out that there is a problem in the fact that municipalities have a large bill. There is pressure to lift these climate tasks, which are now due to rain, waste water, etc., that are pouring out. So it can actually be at the expense of some of our important social benefits, and that is why we need to look at how we finance this because the municipalities' budgets are under pressure. And it's not about just wanting to set different priorities. However, when it is critical infrastructure, which needs to be addressed, it is a pity if it is precisely at the expense of a school budget. That is why it is important that we look at a new financing model because, as it is now, it is obviously not working. And the municipalities cannot keep up with all the climate projects that need to be lifted as they are now. That's what this shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112835	I do not buy the premise that the municipalities are under pressure on their economy. The municipalities have more than 250 billion. kr. a year they can start to prioritise them a little differently. There is no lack of money in the municipalities; they have massive funds out there. They then spend it on external consultants, cultural capital projects and all sorts of other things that are not basic core welfare. There has been a massive increase in communication professionals and journalists employed in the municipalities, so this is the way in which the municipalities prioritise the money. But if you have over 260 billion. kr., you can start prioritising the funds that you have in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112912	Thank you. And I choose this time to think that the word you can mean, too, man. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. No, he's gone. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109112934	Thank you. What most people have discussed has been the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on making better and simpler rules for climate adaptation in the municipalities. And what is the specific proposal is that the Folketing instructs the government to reinstate the 100-percent co-financing scheme for climate adjustment projects and to simplify the rules for co-financing projects, including debureaucratising the interaction with the State Supply Secretariat and allowing utilities to be performers and developers, and simplifying the financing conditions for projects for private common roads. I feel that when there is a new government; there is an understanding of the government; there is a parliamentary basis which will give priority to the green, we are sometimes a little impatient. And I think I've given the government a chance. That is why I asked a question to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, which was answered on 9 August, and where, as I read the proposal, there was an opening to finding better solutions for these investments in climate adaptation projects. And that could also be something that had been included in the financial law agreement. That did not happen, and now it is that we have retabled our motion for a resolution here. I think it is essential that we prioritise efforts to deal with more violent weather. We need better security of the future, both of the buildings we have and of the infrastructure we have. The infrastructure is sometimes overlooked. We see that urban growth is taking place, as for example. at the harbour in Aarhus • where you build on the assumption that the sea can rise by 1 m. And we know, 20 years after it has been adopted, that it is not even possible to be sure that it is a building that is sufficiently secure for the future. A number of municipalities and cities have experienced a hurricane, Bodil, that ravaged and that hit very differently. When you look at what happened in Grenaa, then the harbor was flooded. You were so lucky it happened at low tide. If that hurricane had come at high tide, it would really have been a problem. And that is where we can begin to analyse how we prevent major material damage from occurring in the event of harsher weather and where it is necessary for municipalities to have the best tools to invest wisely and to invest in what makes the most sense locally. It is therefore interesting to look at the play that has come from KL yesterday, where you go in and look at a number of things that could improve this effort. And if you look at the small catalogue, it says very clearly on page 9: The ability of the supply companies to finance fully climate adjustment projects must be reinstated. And that is what Enhedslisten's proposal is essentially about: going back to the rules that were earlier and reintroducing them. And if you ask DANVA what is going on out there, then they have to see that the sensible projects that were being planned, which were in process, are not going to happen because there are 25%. local co-financing. It is not that we have not spotted where solutions need to be made. That's what they have done. You've done your preliminary work. And you have a security of supply secretariat, whose job is to keep an eye on what they are investing in. So what really is the problem of going back to the rules that were in force under Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt's government? I find that hard to see. I would like to thank the Radicals and the SF and the alternative for supporting the Enhedslisten's proposal; I would like to thank the Social Democrats for their partial support; and I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to call for negotiations. At any rate, I have listened to the fact that this has happened before we have to embark on these major negotiations on the climate action plan, in which we have a short-term task to solve. And here there is very technical input to how the task is best done, from municipalities, from DANVA, from other actors and from the parties of the Danish Parliament. So I think it will be possible to get a long way in negotiations like this by launching this very soon, and I am sure that very many municipalities have projects that can be put into effect very quickly in cooperation with local waste water companies. Then I would also like to point out that this attempt to look at the financing of projects on private common roads is something that needs to be resolved. It cannot be reasonable for it to be a local landowners' association which, in general, has to provide the whole funding when it comes to the existence of a local waste water company or similar, which has to be co-financed. Why, then, is it the landowners' association that has to put the whole amount out? So it can be done better. So I am, in fact, open to what the Minister has proposed, namely that we could end up having some negotiations where we solve more problems than what has been dealt with in the Enhedslisten resolution, and when the Minister has mentioned it in the way he has done, I have the expectation that this is something that can happen quickly. And if that is what comes out of tabling a motion for a resolution twice in the Parliamentary Assembly, namely that we arrive at action, then it is not so bad. We therefore owe it to the citizens and municipalities to come up with solutions. After all, we cannot know when the next violent weather will come, and whether the violent rainfall will come in an unfortunate way, so that it will affect some citizens who could be protected, and we must ensure that we avoid floods of buildings and infrastructure. On that basis, I look forward to the further work which may not remain at second reading in the Parliamentary Assembly. I hope that the negotiations that the Minister is launching are something that can happen quickly and that we can come up with good conclusions that can benefit the municipalities and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113538	We are grateful to the rapporteur, and thank him. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113555	The debate is open. Sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113612	Thank you very much. A little further to the previous item on the agenda, we may have a small part of the solution here. Rising seawater levels and more frequent natural disasters caused by climate change are rapidly changing our world. This is also true here at home, but especially in the world, and it has hardly passed anyone's nose that Australia is currently fighting a fierce fight against uncontrollable forest fires........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the Social Democratic Party we believe that Denmark should take the lead in the fight against the climate crisis. We want to promote the green transition, so Denmark reduces its CO2 That is why we are also proud that just before Christmas, by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, we agreed on a historical climate law in which we commit ourselves to some of the most ambitious climate targets in the world. It is a climate law that brings Denmark back into the green driver's shirt, but of course it also requires political action if we want to achieve the climate target of 70%. reduction by 2030, and this also requires that we do not go backwards in our efforts. Therefore, it is also positive that the draft law here maintains a good initiative to promote the green transition in Denmark. The aim of the bill is to reduce the economic costs of electric and hybrid cars, so hopefully more Danes will choose a more climate-friendly car in the future. Firstly, it is proposed to cancel the planned increase in registration fees for electric vehicles and hybrid plugin vehicles, which would otherwise take place on 1 January 2020. The legislative proposal will also apply in 2019 the registration fee rules applicable to electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles. At the same time, it is proposed that the base deduction rate of DKK 40,000 in 2019 should be applied. At the same time, it will continue into 2020. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce a deduction into the tax base for eco- and climate-friendly corporate cars, electric cars, plugin hybrid cars and fuel-celled cars of DKK 40,000. from 1 April to 31 December 2020. It is proposed that the Act enters into force on 1 February 2020 and that the proposed cancellation of the increase in registration fees for electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles by 2020 will take effect as from 1 January. Of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113838	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113842	Thank you. As far as I remember, the Socialists have said in relation to the green transition that it must not create increased inequality, and as far as I remember, the Prime Minister has also said something similar, i.e. that a green transition is important, and we agree with that, but that it must not create increased inequality. So I just want to know if the rapporteur can try to look at that part about the company cars. If you get an extra allowance of $40,000, doesn't he agree that it creates increased inequality? Because it's typically the top two income deciles, if you divide Denmark into the one that finds out how to use that proposal. So, in isolation from that proposal, the Socialists do not agree that it creates increased inequality, even if that is what they say you do not want when you create green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113920	At any rate, it is our intention that the entire financial law complex should not give rise to an increase in inequality. Whether or not there are any sub-elements that shake a little bit about it, I cannot say; I am not so well down in the calculations that I can know whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113936	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113937	Well, it is not so much the entire budget bill that I am talking about, because it has been established, according to the Ministry of Finance, that it creates increased inequality. It is more in relation to the green transition, where the Socialists have said that we want to make a green transition, but that it must not create increased inequality in Denmark. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that one of the first steps to be taken is, of course, this which actually creates increased inequality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109113959	I'm just trying to say again that I'm not in a position to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114002	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114007	I should like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the fact that Norway has ensured a green conversion of the car park to a much greater extent than in Denmark, and that this has been done in Norway by completely removing the registration fee for emission-free cars, such as the United Kingdom. electric cars. So I would like to ask the rapporteur why it is not being done in Denmark. Why will the Social Democrats not completely remove the registration fee for electric cars and other emission-free cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114038	I also have the impression that Norway has followed a path described by the questioner here. Then, of course, with regard to the second part of the question, there is always an overall financing of the Danish welfare that we need to have in place, and the elements here may very much shift it. So we are trying to have a responsible approach where, firstly, we will try to create a market or, what can be said, continue to support the market for emission-free cars, but at the same time do not let it happen in an uncontrollable way for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114113	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114115	So that means that in competition with getting more public employees and increasing cash aid etc. The green conversion of the car park is not so important according to the Social Democratic Party. It is actually more important to increase cash assistance and get more public employees than to have a green conversion of the car park. Because you would rather spend the money on increasing public spending than spend the money on lowering registration fees on emission-free cars so that you can have a green conversion of the car park.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114141	At any rate, we would really like to achieve a 70-percent ambition in relation to CO2 so in this way this is a balancing approach, in which we have to always have to, as well as prioritising perhaps the cheapest initiatives first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114202	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114212	Thank you for the floor. The Left is in favour of this bill, and indeed we ourselves have pressed for the continuation of the low registration fee on electric cars. It was part of our financial act. With our financial law proposal, we did well to ensure that only a continued tax exemption on electric cars under DKr 400 000 would be ensured. And not the expensive electric cars. And we may find it a little funny that it is a social democratic government with red support parties that will now also make expensive electric cars cheaper. But basically, we think it is sensible that the government will help make electric cars cheaper. The draft law cancels the planned increase in registration fees for electric cars and hybrid plugin vehicles, which would otherwise have entered into force by the end of the year. This means that in practice there will continue to be tax exemptions for electric cars under DKK 400 000 and that the tax on electric cars above that price will not increase by 2020. At the same time, it is also proposed to introduce a deduction into the tax base for environmentally friendly and climate-friendly company cars. The legislative proposal therefore ensures that by 2020 too, there will be good conditions for obtaining a green vehicle, and of course we support that in the Left. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). No, I have more (happiness For the Left it is essential that we have green and sustainable transport. We must address the climate challenges and ensure good mobility. That is why it is crucial that our road transport should become entirely green. Making it more attractive to choose an electric car, a hybrid car or a hydrogen car is therefore fully in line with the policy of the Left. However, just as virtually all the answers to the question of consultation have been given, we in the Left believe that there is a need for more long-term solutions to car taxes, and unfortunately this draft law does not. It is, of course, sensible to wait for the work of the Commission on the green conversion of passenger cars in Denmark, but it is not sensible to lay down rules for 2021. Waiting until the end of 2020 to lay down rules for 2021 is not long-lasting. Car importers are already ordering cars for next year, which is why we cannot wait until the end of this year to make rules for next year. In the Left, therefore, we would like to go a little further with the green shift in road transport than the government is proposing here. We would like to continue the tax exemption for electric cars also in 2021 • that would ensure a more sustainable and sustainable solution until we have got further work on the proposals that might come from the Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars in Denmark. We fear that such a short-term solution will not contribute significantly to increasing the sales of green cars and, at worst, to halting it. In spite of this, however, we are in favour of the draft law, which is why I have to say that the Left intends to vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114516	There is one brief comment. You have to be allowed to breathe without being interrupted by the President. That is what happened here. But we made it all. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114529	I would just like to ask whether the Left has changed its position here, because when we last negotiated the electric car agreement, when the Left had the power of government, the big problem was that the government could not secure this transition. It would not ensure that the low tax could be retained until the Commission made its recommendations. Why has the Left changed its mind on this point, so that when you were in government, it was allowed to change and be able to rise, but now it must not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114551-2	I am not aware that we should have changed our position on this point. We have said that we want to ensure the continued tax exemption for electric cars under DKK 400 000, and that was also included in our financial bill, and we would like to continue with this tax exemption by 2020, and we would also like to continue with it by 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114610	Would the Minister like to speak? No. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken for the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114616	It has to be said that the increase in tax which is now being cancelled is one that was proposed by the Left, so one must have changed one's mind and thought that long-termity is now suddenly crucial. What has happened since the Left changed its mind? Is it perhaps that you no longer sit on the cash register?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114632	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114633	In other words, these rules on the base deduction and tax increases were some that were made earlier, but we have said that we would like to take part in cancelling it until this Commission makes its recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114651	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114657	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left would support a proposal to completely remove taxes on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114704	I cannot answer that specifically here. After all, that's not what we're dealing with with with this bill. But as things stand now, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114714	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114716	When you stand and say that you want to be more ambitious, it was the rapporteur himself who said that you would be more ambitious, then I just say that one way we can be more ambitious is to completely remove this tax. Then it'll give people more incentive to buy these electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114738	In fact, this bill goes beyond what we had proposed. We had proposed that the tax exemption on cheap electric cars should continue, i.e. those of less than DKr 400 000. Now, in fact, the light taxes on all electric cars are continuing, and we can at least contribute to that as it is here in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114754	Then I do not think there are any more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109114802	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this is, after all, a postponement of the increase in the tax on electric cars, so the rules that applied in 2019 also apply in 2020 and 2021, and so the same is the rules that should have applied in the year that is there, and we in the Danish People's Party actually think that this is a good initiative, because it helps to calm down until you get these discussions around the Green Transport Commission. I understand that this is not one-sidedly positive because it is a continuation of this stop-go effect that we have had, but it is, after all, just an extension until we get these discussions that are probably coming here during the year. So we think it's a good and objective approach to calm down in this area. You extend the world by boards, I think you sometimes say for fun, and we think that is quite reasonable. But that means that electric cars and hybrid cars are exempt if they are less than DKK 400 000. By the way, they will be next year too, so it will be taken into account for next year too, if it does not come to an end. I can also just mention that, even though we say yes to this part, we in the Danish People's Party still think that the best solution would be to change car taxes, so that it is not the value that matters when you do tax, but that it should be the technical parameters. It may be how far the car runs on its energy source, it may be weight, or it may also be other parameters. So it is still our approach when we get the discussion on the basis of the Green Transport Commission that we have to move to another way of taxing cars, which can help promote environmentally friendly cars. Then there is the second part of the bill that promotes more electric cars. You're going to make a deduction of $40,000. from 1 April of this year to 31 December of this year a very short-term arrangement, it must be said, a very limited period and there is such a little the reverse problem. We really do think that the first part of the report makes sense in terms of calming down until we have more fundamental discussions, but why the temporary arrangement, which does not even run for a whole year? The idea can be good enough, but could it not have waited until these general discussions on car taxation were conducted? Then I also just have a side remark in relation to something that I asked the Socialists about. It is also a bit strange that some parties have said that the green transition must not create inequality, where this is actually quite so inequitable. However, it is also an appeal that this is actually a very expensive way of making green conversion, because the first part, which was about keeping the registration fee, costs 100 million, according to the bill. kr. and gives 200 more electric cars. There you don't have to be the math genius to see that it's 500,000 kroner. per electric car you get for it, which is not a good and cheap way to make green conversion. If you take that part with the company cars where there is a free car, then it is 150 cars for 25 million. kr., which after all is cheaper, i.e. 166,000 kr. per car. You sit there a little bit thinking: if you want some attention on the green switch, it was just before you had to do a lottery on these 350 cars. I think people would care more if they could get a lottery ticket like that for a 20 and then win a car. Try to think about what a mess we could make about winning these cars. Then it would really get some attention that you could get green cars driving. I think it can then be positive enough to extend the world with boards until we have these negotiations, but I think we should also have the back of our heads when we sit and have to negotiate during the year around these climate initiatives, that we should then look at the fact that we get the most for the money, and I don't think you do that if you get an electric car extra for 500,000 tax dollars. Then it might be that you had to do it another way. But we in the Danish People's Party therefore think it would be more sensible to extend the scheme, because we will have these basic discussions during this year, we hope, at least that is what lies in the terms of reference of the Commission and then we will have to find a more long-term solution, in which case we have as a starting point that it should be a change of car charges so that they are technically based instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115156	Remember 1 year ago? Then the financial agreement was about throwing hundreds of millions of kroner after building a deportment lake. With this year's Finance Act, we can talk about building climate and wind islands, and we've been allowed to make one of the greenest finance laws ever. So we spend the money in a rather different way than the previous government, and this bill is one of the good examples of how you can do it. Now Denmark is back in the green driver's shirt, and we want to show it all around. So we eliminate the tax increase on electric cars that lay and threatened from the old government and we ensure that they are not now affected by an increased registration fee so that families can switch the diesel car more easily with a battery of four wheels. At the same time, we also make it cheaper to drive green when you have a company car, and it really seems obvious that a finance law should be used to make Denmark greener. This contrasts very sharply with what the last four years of finance laws have been used for. That's when they were more busy making the black cars cheaper. Denmark has a new direction. The cars that are being bought today typically also run on the roads by 2030, and that's why it's so important that we get this market kicked off now and that we don't zigzags, as has happened in previous years. Because what the rapporteur of the Left says is that car manufacturers and car importers are looking forward and asking if this is a market they want to bet on, whether it is a place they want to advertise, whether it is a place we want to ensure that you can get service and then they offer the cars here, and it is actually the case that sometimes it can be difficult to get to the electric cars. So you have to make yourself an attractive market, and for radicals green means now It is our job to support the green transition and green cars, not the opposite, just as we have done with other technologies, such as energy. wind and sun, and this has proved to be the right thing to do. Then electric cars also have a large number of other advantages. One of the most important is clean air in the cities. It cannot be right that we lose several months of our lives, that we lose thousands of lives a year because of air pollution. So the electric cars have a huge advantage here too. In addition, they use energy, how much of it is produced in Denmark; not energy that we have to import and where we have to send money to other parts of the world, for example. to the Middle East, as we do with gasoline. So there are many good reasons to have an electric car, and those who have tried to drive such an electric car also know that you get a small smile on your lip every time you accelerate. Now a broad majority in the Folketing has decided that we must achieve the 70-percent reduction target by 2030, and we are well at it, and we simply will not achieve it if we do not also take transport with us. We are not only releasing electric cars because it is the cheapest thing to do, we are doing it too, because it is the right thing to do. It is a step towards a more fossil-free everyday life and a step towards a cleaner environment and a cleaner climate. That's why. My children are still young, and when their generation can buy a car one day, it certainly will not be a choice between a car with an internal combustion engine and an electric car. But that's not the point either. The point is that, within a few years, the elections have already taken place in advance. Today we must welcome this agreement and we must look forward and ensure that green cars have a stable charging system that both consumers and the industry can relate to. That is why we have also brought forward the Commission which has to come up with a proposal on how a new tax system might look, so that we can just get a new system and not keep doing this exercise we are doing today. It is important that both consumers and the industry have confidence that green cars are the future and that we politicians stand at the goal of that development. We are doing this with this Finance Act, and we are doing this with the agreement to exempt electric cars. So it is a small step on the way to making serious of our green ambitions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115603	There are a few brief comments. First it's Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115607	In LA, we have the view that cars and other activities in society must be subject to a charge equivalent to the negative impression that it has on the environment, that is to say, that you drive a car or that you act in other ways. I should like to hear: is it the opinion of the Radical Left that cars should have a much higher tax than the negative impression they have on society? For we have heard the Radical Left complain for a hundred times that we have reduced the registration tax on cars driving on petrol and diesel, even though all wise economists say that the taxation of those cars at present far exceeds their negative impressions on society, both in terms of accidents and congestion, but also pollution. Does the Radical Left wish, with such a gut feeling and a desire to appear as good people and a good party and advocates of people who wear hearing clothes, etc., to have a much higher tax on cars running on petrol and diesel than they are entitled to under their negative impressions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115715	But we dare to say that we believe that the taxes on things that pollute and the things we have to get out must rise and then they can fall on what we want to get in. That is why it is a good exercise to lower the tax on electric cars and then actually not go out to lower it on petrol and diesel cars, so that the competitive advantage remains for electric cars. It is no secret that, after the exercise carried out under Ole Birk Olesen as minister, more of the wrong cars have been sold. We simply do not think that more internal combustion engines should be driven than is necessary; we think that it is the electric cars that should be driven. So, yes, there we have a different attitude than the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115749	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115751	The Radical Left had that old slogan where they said: "We are listening. Also for economists. In fact, there is a reason why we are no longer looking in the street; that is because the Radical Left has stopped listening to economists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115806	No, but if we want to listen to economists and they say that the tax tool is a very good way of achieving its political objectives, then that is exactly what we are doing when we say: we do not think that we should lower taxes on petrol and diesel cars; on the contrary, we should lower them on green cars, because that is our political objective, namely to have an energy system that does not run on oil but runs on electricity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115828	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115830	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur supports the total removal of the tax on electric cars. That would, of course, promote the agenda that the Radical Left wants. Why hasn't it been completely removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115844	Now we have been in a financial law debate where there was not really any intention to do this for the electric cars. So we think it's a tremendously good result we've achieved radically with this, and we thought it was really important to make sure that there was a transition to the next one. So you can ask all sorts of hypothetical questions: Would you rather have had some other things? Yes, there were lots of things we would have liked to have had on this financial law, for example. charges on air travel, which could have helped finance the green conversion. But you don't always get things exactly the way you want them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115912	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115913	Okay, so I understand that during the financial negotiations with the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left did not make any proposals to eliminate the registration fee completely for these cars. That's fair enough. Then I'd like to ask you until this crack at about 400,000 kroner. What is the reason for maintaining a higher tax on electric cars costing more than DKK 400 000, which have better safety equipment and which go even further? Why has it been preserved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109115939	We have wanted to ensure that ordinary families in Denmark can afford to buy an electric car. That's where we've come a long way by coming up against the $400,000. One can discuss whether we should have taken the Tesla with us, if we should have gone all the way up. This has been one of the things Radicals had on paper, and we had it with us in the negotiations to completely remove that tax. But we have to find an overall solution, and there I think that there is a solution for all the middle-class cars and that there is a bridge over to the new charging system, it was allerals most important for us to continue to develop the infrastructure so that we can get the barnstands up and so that we can roll it out into the net.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120015	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120023	Thank you for the floor. This is a good bill, of course supported by the Socialist People's Party. With the bill we want to promote the use of environmentally friendly and climate-friendly vehicles and follow the green direction that the Danes have given the majority mandate to follow and which they expect us to take seriously. Outside the country, more and more Danes are making a personal effort for the green transition, and that is quite excellent, but the market is not going to solve the problems itself. The climate struggle is a joint battle to be supported by the Folketing. Therefore, with the bill, we will make it easier for the Danes to choose a green company car. With the bill, we propose to cancel the planned increase in the registration fee for electric and hybrid vehicles. In addition, it is proposed that the base deduction rate applicable in 2019 in the registration fee be continued in 2020 and that a tax deduction be introduced for environmentally friendly and climate-friendly corporate cars of DKK 40,000. for the period from 1 April to 31 December 2020. In SF we would have liked to see a little more emphasis placed on promoting clean electric cars. I think that is important for us to remember in the future, but otherwise we think this is excellent. I should also like to welcome the alternative and say that they also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120140	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120143	You could have completely removed the registration tax on electric cars, just as you have no registration tax on hydrogen cars, and then you would have had a greater spread of emission-free cars in Denmark in the future than now, when you have chosen to tax value over DKK 400 000. When you have not done so, we hear from many parties that it is because you need the money for other purposes. SF's major battle number in the negotiations was also something else, namely that the municipalities had to be forced to hire more educators. They were not allowed to hire people in home care or more teachers etc. That was SF's big print. And it costs because there is also a need for state subsidies. Is it more important for SF that the municipalities are forced to employ more educators than a green conversion of the car park?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120240	It's not, no. There are a great many things that are important to the SF, and one of them is quite right, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions minimum standards. And we are very, very proud that we are going to ensure that there are more hands out in the day institutions for our children. But it is also important for us to ensure cheaper cars. In fact, I also think that the rapporteur is dressing up a little with borrowed feathers when he continues to highlight this by saying that it is possible to increase the sales of electric cars by simply removing the charges on electric cars, because the policy of the Liberal Alliance is, of course, to completely remove the registration tax, and then we do not guarantee an economic incentive to choose an electric car. We do that in return. We give priority to electric cars, and that is what I think is crucial, because it ensures that there is an economic incentive for consumers to choose the sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120323	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120324	Well, the Liberal Alliance is a very pragmatic party, which means that we would like to start with the electric cars, and then we can get to the situation that, as the car park is converted to green operation, the registration fee disappears by not imposing the green cars registration fee. We also think this is a good way to go, a pragmatic way to go. The question is: Why was it not important for SF to completely remove the registration fee for green electric cars and green cars in general so that we could have a faster green conversion of the car park in Denmark, just as we see it in Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120401	We want to continue to work for cheaper electric cars, and we do, and we want to work with the very pragmatic Liberal Alliance on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120410	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120412	The bill continues the tax exemption for the cheap electric cars of less than DKK 400,000, and then the low tax for the expensive electric cars of more than DKK 400,000 is continued. Why does the rapporteur think it makes sense to continue with this low tax on expensive electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120431-2	I'm not quite sure I understood the question. I can't fucking answer that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120441	The bill will continue with the low tax on expensive electric cars. Right now, i.e. in 2019, 20 per cent is paid, and 40 per cent should be paid. in 2020, but you will then continue at the same level as in 2019, i.e. with the 20%. This means that the expensive electric cars, which cost more than 400,000 kroner, a Tesla and such, will be cheaper than were actually planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120508	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120511	We can live with that. We think this is a really fine compromise. And you also have to give priority to situations like this. We have given priority to the cheap cars. I think that basically makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120522	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120525	Finally, the rapporteur says that this is a fine compromise. I took part in the negotiations over a year ago when we negotiated the scheme, which was to apply for 2019 and 2020, which dealt with the same thing, namely that electric cars under DKK 400 000. should be exempt from duty. At that time the negotiations broke down because a single left felt that it was too unambitious that not enough was happening. You wanted a lot more. There was to be a parliamentary election, and then you would see that something happened. Now we are dealing with a proposal which is exactly the same, namely that electric cars under DKK 400 000. must not be exempt from tax. more or less. How can it be a good compromise when one left the negotiations a year ago because it was too unambitious and not enough happened? Now we stand and pride ourselves on the fact that it is very good for the green transition that we again have the same system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120607	There is no doubt that this proposal is very good for the green transition and that it will ensure that there will be much more electric cars. In addition, I would just like to mention that this is not the only thing in the Finance Act that promotes the green transition. We are taking a lot of initiatives and will also do so in the context of the forthcoming climate action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120623	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120624	But can the rapporteur not just confirm that when negotiations were abandoned before the elections, where it was said that it was unambitious, it was simply for tactical reasons? Well, it's exactly the same proposal today, and it's suddenly super good. It's ambitious and it's getting more electric cars. But before the elections, the negotiations were abandoned because it was unambitious. Wasn't it just for tactical reasons that they left before the election? Because it was not good, but now that it is the rapporteur himself who must stand and be the banner leader for it, it is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120649	Now I did not participate in the negotiations before the elections, but I find it very difficult to imagine that the SF has left the negotiations for tactical reasons, because we are usually a party which gives priority to political struggles and which is very serious in our political work. And, of course, we are pursuing the policy we are doing because we think that the climate crisis is very serious and because we want to ensure that more people choose green cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120708	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120709	Now the rapporteur to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said that one was a pragmatic party, that is to say that one would like to be involved in cooperation. Does this mean that if a motion for a resolution is tabled to completely remove registration charges on electric cars, then the SF will vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120724	No, I certainly can't promise that. And that will also depend on how it is financed and all such things, but we would like to help ensure cheaper electric cars and there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120734	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120735	After all, we have looked at the other reductions that have been made in relation to the registration tax, that it has actually been fully financed in itself, that is to say that more money has been entered into the Treasury by lowering the registration tax. So it might as well be that the same thing is happening with electric cars. So if that's the case, that is, if the Treasury really doesn't lose anything significantly by removing the registration fee on electric cars completely, would SF so much like to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120800	I think that is a very hypothetical scenario to run, i.e. if it is generally completely self-financing to remove taxes and then it may be nice to remove them. But I cannot answer precisely whether we would do so in a hypothetical situation where it costs nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120814	There are no further brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109120823	Of course, from the Enhedslisten side, we are voting in favour of this bill. This is part of the financial law agreement for 2020, of which we are also a part, and of which we are quite happy. And it is also a good idea to ensure an extension of the lighter taxation of electric cars, as we do with this bill. The description of the proposal has been mentioned by other rapporteurs. I would also like to say that it is of course also a pity that this time too we will not have a permanent solution to the problem, but at least we will have to prevent the greenest cars from becoming more expensive. Of course, we think that the transition of our transport towards a much more climate-friendly and green transport can easily be speeded up, and that requires a whole, completely different level of ambition from that which has been able to form a majority in the Folketing so far. We presented a climate plan in February last year which indicates how we are going to achieve our objectives. We are giving precise concrete measures for how we are going to achieve 70 per cent. the reduction of climate gases by 2030. It is a fully funded plan and the funding is put together in such a way that it is also socially fair. And that climate plan contains both measures for industry and agriculture, but of course also our proposals on how to make a practical change in taxes and taxes in the transport sector. We propose, among other things: a direct cash grant for the purchase of the first 250,000 electric cars so that we can get sales going, and we also want to increase the scrapping premium for old petrol and diesel cars. In our view, the permanent solution must also include a more balanced registration fee for electric cars, because right now, and also with this proposal, large luxury cars are being disproportionately taken into account. We have then done so in the interests of continuing with the existing rules, and then there will be a debate this year on how we should tackle and change the regulatory framework per year. On 1 January 2021, this is the idea behind the extension that forms part of the Finance Law Agreement. We have also proposed in the Enhedslisten in our climate plan that the smaller electric cars can be taken into account, for example. to remove the minimum tax in the registration fee. We will then ensure that small electric cars do not pay registration fees, because at the same time they will receive large reductions because of their good fuel economy and because of the current battery allowances, which we also think should be extended. Most importantly, we need to set an end date for new fossil cars. Both the Left and the Social Democrats have said 2030, but it is actually far too late because we have jointly set a target of 70%. reduction in 2030, and if we are to achieve that, the Danish Engineers' Association, for example, has. calculated that only 600,000 new fossil cars can be added to the Danish roads. And right now some 200,000 of these cars are actually being sold every year. A ban by 2030 is simply too late. We are, of course, also awaiting the Commission's proposals for a green shift in transport, and therefore, while waiting for this, we are of course voting in favour of this bill, as, despite our comments, we are naturally interested in pushing forward with positive tax incentives, so that more people choose an electric car.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121147	There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121150	In all our neighbouring countries there are zero registration fees on electric cars and other emission-free cars, and there you shake your head and say: Denmark is not the green country where you want a green transition? Why do you have high taxes on driving around in a green car? But the answer is that this is because if you abolish registration tax altogether today, it will cost the Treasury just over 8 billion. kr., and if you only abolished it for green cars and electric cars, then it would over time when the electric cars came to fill it all and the petrol and diesel cars did not fill anything, so it would cost the approx. 8 billion. kr. And that is the loss, namely that there are 8 billion. kr. less, you can use in the public funds to hire more educators and to increase cash assistance with etc. That is probably the point when Enhedslisten does not really fight to have the registration tax on electric cars removed, namely that you need the money to conduct red politics. And even if you call yourself Denmark's red-green party, you are, at the end of the day, more red than you are green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121255	We are both, and we can see that from our climate plan. We presented our climate plan in February last year, after we had done a lot of work for 6-8 months in making a lot of calculations to ensure that we reach the target of 70% reduction. We have measured specifically for each of the instruments we propose to see how much they provide in reduction, so that we get the 70% reduction by 2030. It must be fully funded, but it must also be financed in a socially fair way. It's the three things you need to say you're red-green. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen raises a fundamental issue here, where I might even say that we may be able to agree a little along the way. In other words, if green taxes go in and finance welfare more generally, then there is the problem of losing funding when people start doing what we really want them to do with green taxes, namely to pollute less. We can also see the problem in relation to fossil cars, namely that because we get a lot of taxes on cars, there can be a fear that, like tackling things in the green area, there can be a great deal less revenue. So it gives some blockages there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121409	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121411	But it is well understood that when Enhedslisten goes to negotiations with the government on understanding papers and finance law and is involved in tax negotiations etc., all sorts of things other than the green transition mean more to the Enhedslisten. In other words, it means more that you can get increased cash assistance, it means more that you can get more educators, etc. That's where you're pretty ultimate. You put emphasis on words when you say that you want to have increased cash aid, etc., while saying that you want to have the registration tax on electric cars removed, that is just something that you say you don't really put the emphasis on words. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121446	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121447	Now I didn't make it all around in my last answer, but I would say: who got the 70% reduction of climate gases into the understanding paper? Who were the only ones involved in the paper of understanding that meant it when the election campaign started? I think so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows who was. This is heartblood for us, and we have presented a concrete climate plan last February which shows how we can actually make the change in transport, so that it can be implemented, that it is fully funded and that it is socially fair. It is about wanting electric cars to be phased into the tax system on an equal footing with petrol cars, but with a lot of deductions which means that cheap electric cars will continue to be cheap, and then there will be a financing gap, and that is something that needs to be resolved by introducing road pricing as well. This is a major discussion and we will not reach it here with the time available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121531	There is time for those brief remarks, so it is true that we are not doing so here. But there is one more question, and it is from Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121537	In the Left we had proposed only to continue the tax exemption for the cheap electric cars, i.e. those under DKK 400 000, because we wanted more electric cars for ordinary Danes. This bill also continues the low tax on expensive electric cars of over 400,000 kroner. What are the sensible arguments on the part of Enhedslisten that expensive electric cars are also made cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121606	There are several things. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the model we wanted to link up would be more favourable to the cheaper electric cars. That is our approach to it. Then there are two reasons why we can still support this. One is that we are making an extension of the existing rules, so that, so to speak, there is maximum calm until we get an agreement in 2020 • which is the plan now that can come into force with effect from 1 January 2021 in this area. The second point is, and we must recognise this, that the expensive cars, or upper-class cars, if you like, have a role to play in converting the car park from fossil cars to electric cars. And there I must be honest and say that we have had a discussion in the Enhedslisten about what to weigh here, the red or the green, and whether it may be Enhedslisten's policy to make very expensive cars cheaper because it is electric cars. It has to be said that sometimes you have to choose between the red and the green, and contrary to what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen claimed here a moment ago, we actually chose to say here: Well the green transition is so important and central, and the expensive electric cars are important for the conversion of the car park. So that's where we picked the green for the red.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121715	It's Marie Bjerre. Here you go. No, there's apostasy. But then there's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121716	Now I have asked the Radical Left, and I have asked SF, and they both say that they would have liked to have removed these registration fees completely on electric cars. Is it also Enhedslisten's view that you would like to have these registration fees removed completely on electric cars? For what you tax, you get less of it, and if you remove the tax, you would get more of it. I think we agree on that. So I'm gonna try and figure out who slowed this down. Was it the Social Democratic Party that slowed this down? Now we have heard the SF and the Radicals, and if the Enhedslisten believes that these taxes should have been removed completely, then only the Social Democrats will not remove these taxes on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121757-2	It is limited what is available of time, but I actually tried in my rapporteur's speech and also a little in reply to Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen to describe what kind of model we're working for. It is also described in very detail in our climate plan from February last year. We do not just want to abolish registration fees, we want to phase in electric cars into the tax system on an equal footing with petrol cars, but we want to exempt them from the minimum tax, and the battery allowance should be maintained. This would mean that registration fees would not have to be paid for the vast majority of small and medium-sized electric cars, and in this way there is both red and green in it. There will be a financing gap and we want it to be closed by introducing road pricing, and there is also a green element in it, because you pay, depending on how much you drive. So we do not just want to abolish the registration fee, because we think that would be the wrong way to do it. We have a model which we think is linked both to financing but also to maintaining the social balance, and this also means that when you have to switch to an electric car, you can afford it without it becoming more expensive to drive, even if you live in areas outside the larger cities and maybe a family that has a driving need that means you have to have two cars. They will not be put at a disadvantage with the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121910	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121912	I know that, because I have actually read the Enhedslisten's climate proposal, and I would actually like to praise it because it is thorough. We may disagree on this, but I think it is actually a thorough proposal that has come forward, so I would like to acknowledge that. But this is a temporary transition. We can talk about the big picture, but this is a temporary solution for a year, and there you could have just removed it completely and said that we should then have made the big plan. There would have been more electric cars on the roads, and hopefully that is what I hear Enhedslisten would like, and then you have been able to take these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109121941-2	We would have liked to have done more already now, but there was no majority for that. The Eldrup Commission is now working and the argument has been that it should make some recommendations, and we will be able to discuss them and negotiate them, and that will then be later this year, and then the goal is, of course, that we can make some agreements that should be able to enter into force with effect from 1 January 2021. So this is about extending some existing schemes until we get a good system from 1 January 2021. We are going to be busy, but we are going to have a busy negotiating year this year at all, because there are a lot of things we need to have in the country, including in the climate area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122035	Thank you. As usual, this has been a rather barren debate, where familiar views were aired without any change of attitude. I would like to inform you that we intend to support the bill. This is, of course, a tax relief, we are in favour of, and it is also environmentally friendly, and we are also in favour of this, so it is to the right that we naturally support the proposal, which is also in line with some of the registration tax changes that we ourselves made when we were in government, where we also prioritise environmentally friendly cars over less environmentally friendly cars. Then, like the other bourgeois parties, we would like to go further than what the government and the left want to do for the environment than the government does. However, it is clear that if you also want to give priority to having very high public budgets, you cannot also give priority to citizens and the environment as much as we can when we want to have smaller public budgets. Of course, we find it a pity that we are not going further, but it is a good proposal, and we are of course voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Van der Klaauw. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122156	Tax reductions and tax reductions are, after all, a good tone in the ears of the new citizens, which is why we are fundamentally positive about this proposal. There are now some things about it. Firstly, we would have liked to see the tax removed completely. It would have promoted electric cars. Second, I'm wondering about this crack that you have in it. I understand, then, that the Enhedslisten has something to do with the rich not being allowed to buy so many cars, etc. But the market for electric cars is a little different from that for normal cars. There are virtually no electric cars under 400,000 kroner. You can have a Kia Kona, and then there's a Renault ZOE. That is what is currently on the market for electric cars at that price. And if you want a Kia Kona, there's over 12 months of delivery time on one, actually 16 months. So it's not on the market now, so there isn't a very big market, so if you make this crack and make it more expensive for cars over 400,000 DKK, then you make one of the most environmentally friendly cars there is, a Tesla 3 • the most safe car that ever exists on the market today • more expensive. And at least a Tesla S and a Tesla X, right? So I don't understand the crack thing. It is such a little envy policy, I think. I don't like it. When we look at the environmental impact that you say this proposal wants, I am not really sure if you could have gotten more bang for the bucks if you had done it differently. That's why I put a question to the Treasury to find out. Now this is 350 electric cars, it's $125 million. kr.: That is what is less revenue from it. It's $100 million. kr. - to reduce the total registration fee to 85%, according to the Ministry of Finance. I have asked the tax minister: if you did it instead of this, what will have the greatest environmental impact? Perhaps it would not actually have had a major environmental impact to lower the registration fee to 85%. for all cars because people would change their old car and buy a new one? It will be exciting to see, because if it turns out, you have chosen a solution based on gut feeling instead of what is best for the environment and climate. And then I hope with what I've heard from the platform here that you'll walk the talk and say: Well, then let's do what's best for the climate and the environment, and not just what's best for the gut feeling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122431	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122439	The bill here provides for a tax exemption for electric cars costing less than DKr 400 000. And we support that, and we support it. However, we would have liked to have gone further and said that no emission-free cars should be subject to registration tax. This is potentially something that can cost the Treasury in the region of 8 billion over time. kr., because that is what it costs to abolish registration fees for all cars. And over time we have to assume that the emission-free cars will take over so much of the market that they will be all cars, and therefore the lasting loss by abolishing the registration fee will be completely the same as the lasting loss over time by abolishing the registration fee completely for the green cars. And here we have the reason why the red parties in the Folketing will not help to abolish the registration tax on green cars: that is because those parties are more red than they are green. It is about Denmark being the only country in the northern half of Europe to have registration fees on green cars, because Denmark needs all the money for public spending that the red parties want to have. It is about having one of the world's most expensive public sectors with a great many employees; it is about having the world's highest transfer income; it is about having record numbers of working age on transfer income instead of being in work. So you need a lot of money on the red wing to drive the red state that you want. And if it was up to many of the red parties SF, Enhedslisten and probably also the Alternative... then even more money would have to be spent, that is, they have no opportunity to do without the 8 billion. kr. in the registration fee for electric vehicles over time. So that is the reason why people look at us in the outside world with wonder and say: Denmark, isn't it a green country? Is it not a place where you want to switch to green energy production, green energy consumption etc.? Why is registration fee on driving around a green car in Denmark? We do not have that here in Germany; we do not have that here in Sweden; we do not have that in Norway. But that is what you have in Denmark, and that is why they shake our heads off abroad and think: What is this? But the explanation is, of course, that it is because the red parties have an insatiable need for citizens' money to be spent in the public sector, and in the choice between being red and being green it always wins to be red on the red side of the middle line of the Folketing. And I think that's too bad. We would very much like to help abolish the registration tax on all green cars. We also tried to get through this in our old government, where we sat with the Left and the Conservatives. We couldn't. The way I remember it, it was certainly the Left that did not want to spend so much money on having a green conversion of the car park. So it is not because I can say that everything is nothing but joy and old-fashioned if only the blues get power, but I would say to those who want a green conversion of the car park: a vote on the Liberal Alliance is a vote for a green conversion of the car park, so you have to remember that next time you go to the ballot. One should not imagine that parties like Enhedslisten and SF, when it comes to the matter, really want to prioritize it when they really want to spend the money on other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122832	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122834	During the last parliamentary term, it simply shook on the head as a citizen's voter that there was a change from a bourgeois government where there was such an envy tax on cars of over DKK 400 000. I have been a little puzzled by the fact that I hope that the rapporteur may be able to lift the veil a little, but I do not intend to attribute it to the rapporteur's party where the hell it came from. Because it does not make sense if you have just a touch of bourgeoisie in you that you impose such an envy tax on citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109122913	But the history is that a total tax exemption for electric cars had originally been adopted years ago, and indeed hydrogen cars, but it was only temporarily financed. Therefore, when it was reached on 1 January 2016, there was no longer any money to continue that tax exemption. In 2015, right after the elections, the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, as far as I remember, settled together and decided that they would only find the money to finance a tax exemption for the first DKK 400 000. The price of the car. And they did that in 2015 right after the election, and then it was the effect. That, then, is the system which has been extended sometimes and changed slightly and which is now being extended once more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123002	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123005	But couldn't one, when one formed the new government in 2016, have sat down with perhaps the Danish People's Party and said: Fine, now we are making a new deal, because the changes they made there, we think are the right ones; society has changed, and we need to do this, and that will be the right thing to do? There must be some in the bourgeois wing who have resisted and said that we must keep this envy tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123027	Well, there was, and there is no doubt whatsoever, that in the government the Left fought against the total removal of registration tax, and if we had come out with the overall wish as a government that we would have the registration tax completely away from electric cars, our expectation was that the Danish People's Party would have resisted, and there would have been no red parties to help implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123048	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And that brings us to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123100	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for a fantastic debate, which is very good for the great debate we will have here before that very long, when the so-called Green Transport Commission announces with its presentation how we can make a not only structural change, but indeed a real transformation of our car park in a much more greener direction. I think it has been incredibly encouraging to hear that there is support from all parties for this proposal, and I look forward, frankly, to the debate that we are going to have on this very, very important task. Because it is true that if we mean something, and we do so with everything that has been said in the election campaign, that we should take the climate and especially the challenges that are involved more seriously, then we will have to look at what we can do to change our transport sector and, of course, the car park. So I am very much looking forward to the further debate, and I think that this is quite fine in addition to the fact that it is now virtually all parties in the Danish Parliament, with the exception of two, I believe, which support our ambitious climate legislation. There is no doubt that this will be a crucial chip, so to speak, in the negotiations on how to achieve the ambitious climate targets, that we will have our car park converted in a much greener direction. However, as has already been shown, the government and the parties with which we have created the Finance Act want a larger share of the cars on our roads to be environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, so that we can tackle the conversion of our car park and it will be a much stronger and more positive contribution to the overall green transition. As I have said, the legislative proposal translates into the 2020 Finance Act the parts of the agreement that we have made on this subject, which relate to the registration fee for electric and hybrid vehicles and, as has been suggested, also the deduction for green company cars. The bill makes it cheaper to buy and use electric and plugin hybrid cars for private use and also as a company car. As has already been suggested many times, it is a priority for the government to calm down on vehicle taxes towards the follow-up to the recommendations of the Green Conversion Commission for passenger cars and, as you know, the Commission will report back here in 2020. And there is the intention that we will then, and I hope so with the broad support that has been here in the Danish Parliament today, be able to gather together on a model for car charges for electric cars and other environmentally friendly and climate-friendly cars and look at the framework that will apply to them from 2021 onwards. That is why we are proposing here on the short track, first of all, that the planned increase in registration fees, which should have taken place in 2020, for hybrid electric and plugin vehicles, should be cancelled. Instead, the rules will continue, as they were known, from 2019, so they will also apply this year, the year we are in, i.e. by 2020. Therefore, there will not be an increase in the level of taxation by 2020, as otherwise planned. In addition, as has also been said, we are proposing to introduce a new deduction into the tax base for green company cars. The parties to the agreement under the Finance Act have agreed that it should also be cheaper to drive green on the job, and therefore a deduction of DKK 40,000 will be introduced. in the annual rateable value for 9 months; it is true, as has been argued, that it is from 1 April to 31 December 2020. After all, the legislative proposal needs to be adopted, and that is, of course, why there is that connection. The deduction will apply to electric cars, plugin hybrid cars and also fuel cell driven cars. As I have said, I am very pleased with the positive reception of this and hope that, when we come to the reporting of this commission, which has been mentioned several times, that is, the Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars, we will also see the result in the spirit that has been in this Chamber today, we will be able to come together to create a new, good, fixed framework for this area in the years to come, so that we can ensure that our car park can also contribute to the necessary green transition, which a very, very large part of the Folketing agrees is going to take place. So I look forward to the work here, and I look forward to the work of the Tax Committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123541	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123545	Thank you. Now I know that this is going on and it is a temporary solution and that something else needs to come, but would the Minister not admit and agree with me that that with the envy tax on electric cars for over 400,000 kroner? Is a little silly? When we look into a new system, is it the Minister's view that there should be such a crack, such an envy tax? Especially when we take into account the current market for electric cars, where there are virtually no cars for less than DKK 400 000, is it not nonsense to have it broken if we are to create a new system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123618	In general terms, I think we should look very openly at what is going to happen. So, unfortunately, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, with the exception of the New Citizens' Party, has agreed to the 70-percent target in terms of reducing CO2 so we have to look at it widely, and we will also look at that when the Commission has completed its recommendations. It will be a great task, a very big task. And that is why it is good that we can hopefully maintain the broad consensus that is here in the Danish Parliament on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123657	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123659	We're gonna hide the whole big picture right away. We can have a debate about that, but here I am just asking specifically about the crack that is in relation to the price of these electric cars, which, of course, with the current market, means that if I want a family car, which has to be an electric car, and there has to be a good safety in it, then I go up there, and then as a family father I get punished for wanting to have such a car in relation to buying something else. So what is the Minister thinking: does it make sense to have such a crack that actually restricts the family's ability to move into electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123732	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123732-2	My position and that of the government is that there must be a large green contribution, including from the transport sector, in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves broadly here in the Folketing for the conversion. That is why I think we are going to discuss how it can be secured, and we will also discuss more basically the terms of reference of the Commission here • how the registration fee system should be organised, including for green cars, in the future. So I think there will be a very open discussion about it, and I look forward to it. I hope, as I said, that we can come together in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123815	We'll thank the tax minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123828	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109123844	Thank you again. With the 2020 Finance Act, the government, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Alternative have set a new direction for Denmark, where we invest in people and the green transition. As we promised before the elections, we will let the money follow when more children and older people arrive. We have made better agreements with municipalities and regions; we ensure that more nurses can be employed; we will ensure better conditions for our children in day care institutions and primary schools, strengthen efforts for people who live with mental illness. And unlike the previous government, we want to invest in education. In the social democracy we put welfare first, but all the good initiatives also require funding. The draft law here today must therefore be seen as part of the overall financing of the 2020 Finance Act. Specifically, it relates to the part relating to the abolition of the main shareholder's share and the tightening of taxation on leased company cars. The majority shareholder's discount allows the majority shareholders who acquired shares before 19 May 1993 under the rules of the Income Tax Act to obtain a special main shareholder's discount on the profit margin of up to 25%. in the case of the sale of the shares. A maximum reduction means that the tax on the share gain will be reduced from 42 per cent. is 311⁄2 per cent. The main shareholder reduction is in fact a transitional arrangement designed to ease the increase in the taxation of the main shareholders implemented in 1993. At present, therefore, there has been plenty of time to adapt to the general rules on the taxation of share gains. With the abolition of the majority shareholder, all main shareholders will be taxed equally and in the same way as other shareholders. This will help to reduce the differences in the taxation of property income and, at the same time, will help to make tax rules simpler and more robust. The rules for the taxation of free cars are designed to tax labour costs roughly the same regardless of whether the remuneration is paid in cash or made available by car for private use. However, it is a widespread phenomenon that cars are rented and made available privately as a free car with a tax base that is significantly lower than the price of a similar car in the ordinary course of trade. The registration tax introduced restrictions for leased cars which are not reflected in the tax base for free cars. The rules for the taxation of free cars should therefore be adapted to take account of the higher value expressed by a re-calculated taxable value when taxing free cars. Of course, the social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109124127	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109124140	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are discussing part of the implementation of the Financial Law Agreement concluded by the Government with the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative. After all, it consists of three parts, as the previous rapporteur also said. The first part is about the removal of the main shareholder impact from 1 February 2020. The second part is that the principle of recalculation is also applied to leased cars on the company car scheme. And the third is the reduction of the base tax due to increases in municipal tax. Let's start with the first part: the main shareholder battle that is being removed. After all, it is a right that was given back in 1993 and now it is being removed from 1 February 2020. A lot of people are worried about whether this is retroactive. That is the sort of subtle thing, because it is not formal. It's not until 1 February, but the fact that you have to make use of this main shareholder reduction scheme takes 3 months. In other words, we cannot make use of the rules that exist before they are adopted, and so it is in fact retroactive. I have to say that I think that is very bad legislative practice. After all, it is almost expropriating that people are not allowed to act on the rules that are before others have been adopted. That is why I think it is important to give people the opportunity to act on it and to make use of the rules that existed before they put it into effect. Otherwise, the whole essence of this must be to take some money that people didn't expect to take and not give them the opportunity to act on it. Then, in principle, it is retroactivity, and I think that is very questionable. So I have to say that one thing is that the government wants to raise taxes. It is not surprising, but that you actually do so so that people do not have the opportunity to act on it, I find it very problematic. Then there's the recalculation principle for leased cars on the company car scheme. It was, of course, the case that we made a tightening-up when we were in government, for leased cars at all. There were some stories that maybe it wasn't the quite true prices that were on these leased cars when you had to calculate the registration fee, and therefore it was taxpayers who paid part of the price for it to be a low lease. So this principle of recalculation was done after four months. I think that was a very good solution, because it is, in fact, just a question of the right thing to tax, not some artificial value. It seems that something has gone wrong, so that you have not managed it in the same way for both private cars and company cars. Basically, we believe that the same rules should apply, and we really believe that the agreement we reached at the time should also have included company cars. That's why we're really approachable to this. However, we see well the concerns of the industry and also listen to them and will, of course, follow it closely. I am also aware that there may be some who are caught up because of it, because they have signed a contract and the terms then suddenly change, and then they are stuck. That is one of the things I would like to see highlighted in the work of the committee, but we are concerned about that. Then there is the third part of the bill: this one with the reduction of the base tax as a result of the increase in municipal taxes. I have to say that, after all, I am glad that the government is following what we have done in the past in this area, namely that when the municipalities raise the tax, they lower the base tax. That was then part of the tax freeze we had. The government does not follow the tax freeze in general, because you raise taxes in many places, but this very thing about lowering the bottom tax, I think, at least, is a sensible thing. So we can back that up. As you can hear, we are in favour of two parts of the bill and against one part. That is why we would like to ask for the legislative proposal to be split up so that we can be allowed to vote in favour of the things that we think are sensible and that we can see ourselves in. After all, it is a pile of weddings and it cannot be said that there is a huge connection between the main shareholder and company cars. It's two pretty different things. So we would like to ask for the bill to be split up so that we have the opportunity to vote in favour of the part that we are in favour of and against the part that we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109124550	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109124559	As I said, the draft law contains a number of elements, and I will start with what is about removing this main shareholder reduction, which is a reduction in taxable profits and which is a scheme that was made in 1993, so we have to say that it has been there for some years. It is a system which allowed a reduction in profits up to 25%, not that it automatically received 25%, but that it was up to 25%. The argument in the draft law is that there was no expiry date on it, and that is true, but, on the other hand, one must also say that as people get older, it will eventually die out, I assume. I actually understand that it is politically said that at some point this must stop. I think that is a real political priority; I have just one appeal against it, and it is here, as the Left also said, that it works retroactively. But my angle is a little different, because it has more to do with the fact that the family-owned companies, which have had For there, maybe as far back as 2001, have had a carpenter business which, in good faith, has moved on to their son, who has been able to actually postpone the tax that has been paid by the company for some years now. There you come now and pull the blanket away. Many years after people have acted in good faith, you come and say, "You're gonna lose that, and you're gonna have to pay that. In fact, I do not think that is good legislation, and it is not fair to those who have actually changed the generation in good faith perhaps five or ten years back. I have to say that I have little faith in it, because I know that the money has been spent in the Finance Act, but I very much hope that, despite the fact that the parties behind the Finance Act and we are at least very much involved in the discussions, perhaps might consider adjusting the adjustment so that the people who have actually acted in good faith and have made a generational change perhaps 5, 10 or 15 years ago could avoid being hit by this increase and thus lose the cut that they have rightly had and acted in good faith from many years. I think it would be fair to the people who have actually made the generation change. The generational allowance at that time is locked in crowns and ears, so it doesn't increase over time. So I think that would be fair enough. If there is a generation change and you are a son or something and the next 10 years will continue to get a bigger and greater deduction, it would not be reasonable, but that is not what is at issue. After all, it is locked in crowns and ears in 2001 or 2005, or when it was the generational change. I would certainly call for the committee procedure to try to consider whether it would not be fair for people to be able to count on the rules that were at the time of the generational change. Then there is the second part of the bill on tightening up the leasing of company cars. This is an arrangement that we in the Danish People's Party have had a lot of focus on ourselves, and we think that most of all it looks like a hole that I think we just have to acknowledge in here we have forgotten to close when last time we tightened the lease rules. So we think it is a good thing that it is now being tightened up. I also noted that in the consultation answers a slightly different model was proposed which could at least be considered and which would make it more simple: could company car taxation not be made on the basis of what list prices are? The list prices are typically higher than that of the car, and then you could adjust the rate slightly, so it went straight up in terms of revenue. But it was mostly just to ask whether you could solve the same problem and get the same revenue, including in the case of revenue from the Treasury. It was really mostly to see if you could make it simpler. For it is clear that buying a car presents a little administrative challenges, and then four months later you have to recalculate, and then there may be some taxation that increases and something that has to be repaid by the company etc. I kind of agree that we need to close the hole. It was mostly just a reflection that I would like to appeal to us to have a look at during the committee procedure. So what was proposed in the consultation answers could be a solution that could be chosen and then still hit the same revenue. Because I understand that if you change the proceeds, it will of course be a no on the part of the Finance Bill parties, because the money has been spent. But if we could find another model which might solve the same problem and which was easier to manage, then I think it was certainly worth looking at in committee. Then there is the last part about lowering the base tax, which is an exercise that has been repeated for many years and which is that when the municipalities set up the tax in different places in their budget settlements, they then lower the base tax generally throughout the country to compensate for it. We think this has been a good exercise all the other times, and we think it is also this time, but I think it is a little fun to look back, because in the case of L 238 in 2018, the Socialists, with the support of the left, actually tabled an amendment which meant that the compensation of 0.03%. I had to get out. Because it was welfare or tax relief, and it was quite unfair that the money was spent on this. So the bottom tax should not be reduced by 0.03%, because it was quite unreasonable to do so in order to compensate the people who had actually been put up in municipal tax. But now you are proposing exactly the same thing. Now it is a very good solution to compensate them. I think that may be a bit of confusion in the line. I think it is a good model, but at that time it was actively opposed because it was either welfare or tax relief. Now it is not welfare or tax relief; now it is only fair to have this model of compensation. I also think that this is a good model, but perhaps I lack a thread in what has been said and said the last few times that we have voted on exactly the same methods. Now you are in favour, and so are we in the Danish People's Party. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125104	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left at the moment. Then I would like to welcome the SF rapporteur, Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125120	Thank you. In SF we prioritise our welfare, our education, children, health and psychiatry just to mention some examples. Our common institutions, which we trust, for our children and young people and the sick and the elderly have been under pressure in recent years. In the work on the Finance Act 2020, the parties behind it have made a great effort to prioritise welfare. One way in which this can be done is by abolishing the main shareholder battle and tightening the taxation of leased company cars. This means, among other things, that all main shareholders will in future be taxed in the same way as other persons who own shares. In addition to creating simple tax rules, this is a step towards equalising the taxation of property income. In addition, the draft law will lower the base tax by 0.03%. to compensate for the overall increase in municipal tax in 2020. SF supports the bill, and then I should salute the alternative and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125218	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we would like to welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is on the move. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125231	We from the Enhedslisten are very pleased with the two elements that were included in the 2020 Finance Act and which, together with a number of other initiatives, help to finance a boost in welfare, for example. more beds in psychiatry, more educators in kindergartens and a number of other good improvements in a finance law, which is undoubtedly the best financial law this country has seen for 10 years, a Finance Act which also combats inequality in our society. So there are two very good proposals in this bill. The first is the removal of the main shareholder's battle, which we see as a definite tax hole, simply. For more than 25 years, people have been able to tax their share margins more lightly because they were fortunate enough to be the main shareholders before a specific date in 1993. It is very good that we can now close such inappropriate gaps in our tax base. This is a very obvious way of finding money to finance good welfare initiatives, and it is not really small change. In 2025, income after backflow and behaviour is almost 300 million. kr. I can only appeal to the Minister to continue along the same path and to close such inappropriate tax gaps. Secondly, we are also very happy to close a gap in car taxation. In fact, when the big agreement on car taxes closed large gaps in the leasing sector, this tax gap was left open, which concerns free car provided by the employer. Here the gap has not been closed, which means that the taxable value has to reflect a recalculation. We could have done it already then. It was actually a step forward as part of the legislative process that we could have closed the gap already then. Now we do it with a few years late, but better late than never. Now we're gonna close this hole in the lease area. It is only fair that there are no small groups of cars running around with a significantly lower registration fee than that which everyone else has to pay. This tax gap, which we are closing, is giving money in the box, and from 2023 it will be worth 100 million. kr. annual after retreat and behavior. I would also like to say in this connection that I believe, when I look at the entire car leasing sector, that there are still many gaps that we should close. There are far too many fakes and tricks going on where the money doesn't come in the box, but ends up in all sorts of other places. So, in my view, there are several gaps in the leasing sector that we need to spend time looking at the next year's time and such as. may also be financed by a Finance Act 2021. We are, of course, in favour of these two proposals. That is why we are also annoyed by the fact that an additional element has been inserted into the draft law, which is not about the fiscal changes of the Finance Act. It is a matter of lowering the base tax, which is the result of the municipalities having raised the municipal tax. In Enhedslisten's view, money is well needed in welfare, and Enhedslisten takes the view that we could easily allow the municipalities to make the relatively modest tax increase without the State having to reduce its tax revenues accordingly. However, it is clear from the comments made when they are read that, as a result of the bill, the reduction in the top tax is reduced by 16 million as a result of the slanted tax ceiling. kr. It is not, of course, because it is a lot of money, but it is a small amount, which means that there is a potential derived politically positive effect of the draft law. We should like to ask a few questions about that. If this distribution policy gain is large enough, it might alleviate our opposition to this element of the bill. But I think I have to say that basically the tax minister must prepare for the fact that we want the bill to be split up, because we are fundamentally negative in terms of this element, which we really see as being shot in as a little foreign body in a draft law which deals with initiatives from the Finance Act, on which we agree. If it ends up being divided on that point too, I can understand that the three elements of the bill will be divided into three different pieces if the wish of the Left is also to be met by Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125709	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125716	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the main shareholder's defeat, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and which, for some, may not be many, but for some, at least, is retroactive. They are the ones who have made a change of generation by means of the rules on success, in other words, where taxation can be deferred. There this impact has been made up so they don't get anything out of it forward, but now they're losing it retroactively. Can't the Enhedslisten see that there may be a problem in that? I recognise that it is purely political that it should be abolished in the future. I can see some sense in that. But those who, back in 2005 or the year 2000, really many years ago, in good faith in the rules, have changed, deferred taxation right by book, are now losing this cut. Will the Enhedslisten not help in the committee work to see if it can be adjusted to? It is, after all, a less common one, at least, I think, but it is important for those people not to be affected with retroactive effect, perhaps 15-20 years back in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125815	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125816	On the basis of this, we will not be in favour of doing what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær requests. That is because I really think that there is a little confusion between the ways of understanding tax legislation, because changes in tax legislation are not legislation with retroactive effect. I think that a bit of the argument that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's side and also a little from Louise Schack Elholm's side are wrong. They say that because you have adapted to a tax law that was • and when tax legislation is then changed and then you do not have the money that you had originally foreseen with the previous tax law • then this is to legislate with retroactive effect. However, if it were to be elevated to a general principle of changes in tax legislation, any increase in tax or tax would be legislation with retroactive effect. That is why I do not really recognise the premise for the question, because then many people who have bought a house and assumed that they might not have to pay so much top tax if Enhedslisten were to be implemented so that the top tax should rise lightly, would say: Well, I have arranged my private economy after the top tax was as low as the blue parties would like it, and therefore it is legislation with retroactive effect. I mean, you can't understand tax legislation like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125930	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109125933	Well, I think it's a little different here. Because I can see that, if you have voted that you think the top tax should fall, or you think that the top tax should rise, and then something else has happened, it is not retroactive. I agree with that. However, this is something that was decided upon from the year 2000 onwards, after which the rebate or rebates were calculated. Then you make a generational change, and then you lock the discount on. It does not rise or become smaller or anything at the time, but the rules as they are today have allowed us to postpone taxation in the future too. But the forms of taxation that existed between 1993 and 2000 will then be lost with that reduction. It's retroactivity. That is not what is forward-looking, because one may disagree or agree with that is fair, but this is why many of the family-owned companies, which have changed in good faith, are now losing their impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130016	Thank you! The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130017	Well, it is true that when we change tax legislation and here eliminates completely strange discrimination in the taxation of profit margins for some shares, unlike the general level, there are some people who are going to pay something more, and that is what we consider to be reasonable as a starting point. We would always like to hear what other parties might think about this matter. Even when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær comes and says things, so I and Enhedslisten are also willing to look at what Dennis Flydtkjær is, among other things. known for getting to grips with matters well. But our starting point is that this is a tax change in line with all other tax changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130100	Thank you. There is one more brief comment and it is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. The rapporteur forgot to say ma'am before, so we have to make that right a little bit. Rune Lund It will never happen again, President). Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130114	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Rune Lund for that Enhedslisten also supports a division of the bill. We are quite prepared to divide it into three parts so that we can vote for the parts we each like. So thank you for that anyway. I noted that the rapporteur has changed rhetoric. Previously, when we talked about tax holes, it was when people used something that was unintended legislation, so that legislation can be used in a way that we as legislators have not foreseen. This isn't something that hasn't been foreseen. There has actually been very clear legislation on this for a long time and therefore it will not fall under the normal definition of a tax gap. That is why my question to Mr. Rune Lund: Has Enhedslisten changed the definition of tax hole? I know very well that Enhedslisten has a completely different approach to taxation than we have in the Left, but has Enhedslisten changed the use of the word tax hole?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130209	There are two questions. The first is in relation to the division of the proposal. Well, one of the things that was actually several things that I thought worked well under Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, when he was Minister of Taxation, was of course that it was never a problem to split up legislation. I think this is a good way of working, especially in the area of taxation, how much of it is such a bunch of proposals where you get a lot of things together. I think that is a tradition that we should bear on. I think that's a good way to work. The other one, i.e. whether it's a treasure hole. I would say that we do not have such an authorized definition of what we perceive as a tax hole, but when you make a tax discount so many years back and it just continues, I think it seems inappropriate and strange at some point that it will continue to exist when there is something that would have to free somebody in the context of a transitional regime. And then I think you can talk about a treasure hole. We are probably not over in how the Treasury defines an early warning or something like that, if that is what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm refers to, but I think it can be called a tax hole when we have such an inappropriate arrangement of our tax legislation that we then do away with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130318	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130320	In fact, I believe that there is a fairly clear definition of the tax gap, because that is when it is the exploitation of unintentional taxes, so it is not a discount we have given. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is easy to call it a tax rebate. Then I'm gonna ask you again about this, about removing a tax rebate. I have full respect for the fact that we have different positions and that the Enhedslisten has a different desire for taxation than the Left has, and I fully recognise that. But since it is that you want to remove a discount, is there a particular reason why you do not want to give people the opportunity to act on it before you introduce the change? In other words, we cannot change the way we have organized ourselves before this legislation comes into force and that is why we are talking about retroactivity. So, Enhedslisten doesn't usually mean that after all you have to have the opportunity to react to changes to things that are before they come into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130408	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130409	A little further to what I said earlier, I would say that there will be many changes to the tax law, which may mean that some have to pay something more in tax, while others have to pay something less. One can say what is people's chance of formally, but perhaps also really reacting to it in order to get out of a situation where they should be able to pay something more. So I think we are back a little by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm using an argument in tax matters where any increase in taxes or any increase in taxes is a form of legislation with retroactive effect, and that is not how tax legislation should be understood. So basically, I do not agree with the premise behind the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130512	Conservatives would also appreciate it if we could divide the bill into at least two parts, because, like the Left, we would like to vote in favour of a reduction in the base tax, but will not vote in favour of the two tax increases that are contained in this overall legislative proposal. After all, there is no real relation between the three elements of the draft law, so we hope that it can be met. It is thus a good day when the base tax will be reduced by 0.03 percentage points, and if we did it every day, it would not be more than 2.3 years until we were there where we would like to be in relation to the tax burden. So it is not such a huge reduction, but of course we are voting in favour of the tax cuts that we can do. We are not in favour of having a car being more expensive, and we are not in favour of this main shareholder reduction being abolished in the way it is abolished. I agree that this is a rather difficult rule, and we are not in favour of very complicated tax rules, and that is why it could have been abolished in some form, but then there were two things that had to be fulfilled before we could join in. Firstly, the proceeds were to be used to reduce some other taxes or duties, and secondly, it should be the case that this only applied in the future. People who have once acquired a business should not be penalised for gains that may have been earned before 1993 and then suddenly be exposed to it now that it is taxed more than has been the case so far. So we do not think that is fair, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal, but, as I said, we would like to vote in favour of a reduction in the base tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then the alternative has been welcomed, and that is why I would like to welcome the rapporteur, Mr L.A. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109130710	The draft law contains three elements, the two of which are tax increases and the third and final element is a base tax reduction to compensate for higher municipal taxes. We can support the latter, but we cannot support the other two elements. When one finds that there is a difference in treatment between taxpayers who ought to be treated equally, in other words that some pay such and so high taxes, while others pay lower taxes, there are actually two ways to go. You could say, okay, those who pay too much compared to the others, so that's where we have to lower the tax. Or you can do what the government is proposing, namely that when they do not pay as much, they definitely have to pay the same as the others. The question of whether or not one thing is done is entirely political. This is not a technical thing, as the government would like us to believe, namely that this is just about some kind of technique. No, it is there that the sheep are separated from the goats, namely whether you think we pay enough taxes in Denmark, and whether you think that we may even pay too much tax, or whether you think that we should pay more taxes in Denmark, because even if we are one of the most heavily taxed people in the world, we need the Danes to pay more taxes. If you have the last point of view, namely that the Danes need to pay something more in tax, you see any discrimination against taxpayers in the way that if someone pays taxes here and others pay there, they certainly have to pay taxes at the same level. We just don't have that approach. When you make the decision that you want to raise the tax for some to get them to the same level as others, there is also the question of what to do with the money. After all, those who can never spend enough money in the public sector always believe that the revenue generated by raising taxes should be used in the public sector. The other of us have the approach that if there is any more money in the Treasury by getting a fair tax on some who then again lead to higher taxes, they could be used to lower some of the taxes that are too high in Denmark. You don't do that here. It is, of course, an element of the financial agreement concluded by our Social Democratic Government with the Danish Parliament's red parties that more money should be spent in the public sector, that cash aid should be higher and that we should have more from the big country to Denmark and live on transfer income etc. That's what the money's for. We could be open to achieving a more equitable taxation of people in some cases, by raising the tax for some people, if we then use the increased tax revenue to reduce other taxes that are more harmful than the tax increase that is being implemented. This leads us to believe that, if the draft law is not divided, we will have to vote against the two elements of the draft law that we are against, even if there is a third element that we are in favour of. However, if the bill is divided, we would very much like to vote for the third element of a lower base tax, and then we will vote against the two other things. Then I have been asked by the tax rapporteur for New Citizens to say that they will also vote against the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131101	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for receiving the bill. I would like to say from the outset that we want to share in dividing it up. After all, we think it is a good thing that as many people as possible are helping to support the parts of the legislative proposal, in which there are indeed elements involved in the financial law agreement, and then elements which have to do with something that is a tradition in terms of expenditure management and the management of the public economy as such. We will take that with us, and we will be able to find out in the further work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities in relation to the examination of the legislative proposal. But once again, thank you for it, you might as well say, largely positive reception of the draft law. As can also be seen from the debate here today, according to several rapporteurs, this is a legislative proposal which is partly justified by the agreements made in connection with the Finance Act, where it is clear that the government and parties behind the agreement want to strengthen the core welfare, our educations, children and young people's educations and, above all, ensure that we have a much stronger green transformation of the Danish society. We also provide funding for this, for example, so that we can hire 1,000 more nurses, introduce minimum standards, strengthen efforts for people who live with mental disorders, and, as I said, invest in training, so that Danish companies and employees are even better equipped for the fight for growth and jobs. The draft law therefore implements those parts of the 2020 Finance Act which concern the abolition of the majority shareholder's share capital and the tightening of the taxation of leased company cars. The proposal thus contributes, as I have said, to the financing of the enhanced welfare that the Finance Act for the year we are now in 2020 entails. First of all, we propose to abolish the special reduction in taxable profits which can be achieved through the disposal of the majority shareholder shares acquired before 19 May 1993. With the abolition of this transitional regime over 25 years old, all major shareholders will be taxed equally. At the same time, the main shareholders will be taxed in the same way as any other persons who own shares. In addition to providing funding for the Finance Act, the change here will therefore also help to reduce the differences in the taxation of property income while at the same time helping to make the tax rules both simpler and more robust. The proposed change will have an impact on future transactions, i.e. stock disposals that will take place on 1 February 2020 or later. The approach we are applying in this draft law with regard to its entry into force and which was also under discussion in the course of the debate is no different from the approach taken in other previous tightenings of the tax rules. The fact that some shareholders own very old shares which they will be able to sell under the current rules with a tax rebate does not mean that they will be able to sell the shares at a discount forever. We always have the opportunity to change the rules with forward-looking effect, and we do so, as I have said, with this bill. However, with this bill, the shareholders will be able to continue to obtain the main shareholder reduction in sales by 1 February 2020 and, of course, for those who consider giving up the shares, there is still the possibility of having the majority shareholder drop. Secondly, it is proposed to adapt the rules on the taxation of free cars so that the tax on a free car, which has been re-calculated, is based on the new re-calculated value when determining the taxable amount. This ensures that the tax on free cars takes into account the higher value, which is also reflected in the recalculated taxable value. We are therefore tightening up the rules, as has also been advocated in the debate, on the taxation of free cars, so that the tax base for free cars follows the recalculation of registration tax. Pay in the form of a free car should not be taxed more lightly than cash wages. The tightening will also apply to company cars made available to an employee from 1 February 2020. Employees who are provided with a new leased company car after 1 February 2020 must therefore calculate a higher tax rate if a very low tax base for the company car is provided. This is also only sensible, and I can only call on the actors to provide fair prices from the outset, so that there will be no need for later changes to the tax base for the employee. Many proposals have been made by the leasing industry and other consulting parties to change company car taxation, including proposals for major general changes to the design of the way we tax free cars. Greater restructuring, as has already been done in this debate, therefore, requires thorough preparatory work so that we can have robust coherence in the rules that we have and which may help to support the green transition. That is why what we are proposing here and now, in other words, is a financing element such as that which was also promoted in the context of the negotiation of the agreement on the Financial Act for 2020, and we have already discussed in previous readings here in the Folketing that there will be a Commission for the Green Conversion of our Car Park, and here too we will have the opportunity to take up these elements. As the last element, we propose to reduce the base tax by 0.03 percentage points in order to compensate citizens for the overall increase in municipal tax by 2020, and this is, as has also been suggested, in line with what has been done in the past. With those words, I would just like to give an undertaking that we would like to see the requests for the division of the bill, and then I hope that we will have a good and constructive debate during the discussion of the proposal in the Committee on Taxation in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131738	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131744	In fact, we support the lowering of the base tax, which is in the draft law, but I have a question to get to know what the Socialists' line is in this area. After all, the Minister concludes by saying that this is clearly in line with what has been done in the past, yes, it is in line with what the Folketing has done in the past, because during the discussion of L 238 in 2018, the Socialists voted against that part. There was, of course, a question of welfare or tax relief, so there was no money to lower the base tax, although it was an adjustment compared to some municipalities that had raised the tax. Amendment No 1 was tabled actively. 10 to the bill because one was deeply opposed to the way it was done. I just want to say that what are some of the considerations that have been made since we now think that this is a very good idea and that it is in quite clear continuation of past traditions and all the good things, when at least it is not in line with what the Socialists have already said in this Chamber? What is behind the change in attitude in this area? It is an excellent proposal, but it is just the opposite of what the Socialists have done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131836	Thank you. We just have to remember that we don't use direct charges and you say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131842	Thank you. What I read here is the Social Democracy and so we should have expressed support for that during the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131859	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131900	I agree that this is the position of the Social Democrats now, but it was not then in 2018 that it was a different position. I just want to know what it is that has changed for the Minister and his party, since you now think it is a good idea when in 2018 you thought it was a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131916	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131917	An absolutely excellent financial law agreement has been drawn up which offers opportunities to do these things, which offer opportunities to improve welfare, education and the green environment, and we are very happy about that, and I am glad that it has broad support in the Folketing. That is what was meant by a new government, and Denmark has got it, and they have got a new policy, and it is in all its simplicity quite good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131942	There is one more brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109131946	This is about the first part of the bill. No, let me first thank the Minister for his positive attitude towards sharing the bill. I am very pleased about that. I would like to ask a question about the first part of the bill, which deals with the main shareholder's defeat. And what you can read is that for example. Danish Industry is extremely concerned in their hearing response, because this applies to previous profit margins on shares, not just future profit margins on shares. That is to say, in reality, it is retroactivity because it is a gain that has already been achieved and on which a rebate has been promised, which is now suddenly being removed. So de facto, it's going to be retroactive that these taxes are going to rise. Is that the new way to run politics on the part of the government? So that the things you've promised people and put them in perspective... this is how you're gonna drive... you're gonna take away from one day to the next. I am well aware that in formal terms it is referred to as per. February 1. But since we cannot get it into effect, we cannot get through the process so that we can get there by 1 February, it will in fact not provide any means of action. Is this a new way of conducting politics on the part of this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132055	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132056	No, we don't think it is. And we also believe that this is entirely in line with what has been seen in the past: that the rules are being changed in the future, and that is what we are doing here. And we can easily expand it in an answer to the Committee on Taxation, which is why we do not think there has been any change here. And a little along the lines of what Mr. Rune Lund replied to the same question, of course, it would raise some very large and extensive debates, also of a more fundamental nature, if, as the Left suggests here, we were to do in general in our tax legislation. So that's why we think this is completely in line with what you've done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132134	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132136	I simply do not know of previous examples of this, where a deduction has been promised and a deduction has been envisaged. And because they can't realize it, you're hurrying to remove it so they don't get that deduction. I simply do not know examples of this in the past. That is a little like getting a job deduction, and halfway into the year we are removing it for the whole year. In other words, it is a little bit that people expect there to be an economic state, and then you remove it for something that has already happened. It must be said to be backwards. Why is it that we have not just chosen to look at future margins rather than also take the past ones along with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132214	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132214-2	As I said in my speech, it is a premise for this bill that, although you have had this tax rebate, it does not mean that you have to have it forever. And that is what is at the heart of the debate we have here. We are happy to answer questions in the Committee on Taxation about this. We do not believe that this is retroactive. We think this is forward-looking. And these are the general principles on which tax legislation is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132244	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200109132301	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 10 January 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
