ParlaMint-DK_20200319120016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120027	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. As we are not yet ready for the third reading of L 140, we start with paragraph 2, which is the first reading of L 141.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120046	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120054	After all, we are all in the middle of a time that none of us has ever experienced before, a time that is of great importance to everyone, and a time when we politicians have to make many decisions and decisions that are of huge importance to real, very many people. When you face such a crisis, you have to have the short light, but also the long light, when you come up with measures. The short light, of course, which we have also talked a lot and long about, is to ensure that the corona virus does not spread and to ensure that as few people as possible are infected. However, the long light must ensure that as a country we get through it as well as possible and that we stand as strong as we possibly can, even when we get out on the other side. That is why, of course, we also have to secure as many jobs as we can, both to help companies, but not least to ensure that as few people as possible lose their jobs and their jobs. That was precisely why a few days ago the social partners joined forces with the government and found a solution which will help many people. By giving companies a wage compensation, you can avoid a lot of layoffs and many people will not go down in wages even if they have nothing to do. It will also mean that when we get back to work and all this is over, the employees can come back and that the wheels can spin again as quickly as possible and as well as possible, so that we can get started quickly. It will then be with the employees who have been employed at the workplace for many years, so that companies do not have to find new ones or train new ones and so that everything will run as well as possible from day one. This change is beneficial to companies and, above all, to employees. Businesses will then have to pay 25%. This is precisely what this bill deals with. Because this bill regulates how employees can apply for this loss of earnings. This can be done either by taking a leave of absence or by taking a holiday. If this is not possible, it must be done either by using days from the new year of holiday or by keeping unpaid leave. The employer and the employee then agree on how and when the holiday or time off is to be taken during that period. I would like to commend the social partners for having sat and taken these decisions and for taking responsibility and precisely securing a number of jobs and ensuring that there are a great many employees who do not go down in wages. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120337	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and then we move on to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120356	We are in a very unusual situation, an unprecedented situation, a situation that calls for socialism, unity and cooperation. In a few days, everyone has had to change their behavior. Employees have been sent home and the Danes are in the process of isolating themselves to avoid the spread of infection, unfortunately with the consequence that more companies are on the brink of bankruptcy and that more employees are facing a loss of jobs. That is why, of course, the Left supports the draft law that we are discussing today... a bill that comes to the aid of both Danish companies and Danish employees. The draft law stems from the tripartite agreement concluded on 14 March between the social partners and the government. In the hour of need, the Danish model showed exactly what it is good for. It appeared most readily, and in a very short time an agreement was closed which gives the Danish economy a much needed hand, and therefore a great deal of praise should be given to the social partners. The draft law we are discussing today provides basic employers with the opportunity to return employees with wages instead of having to dismiss them, as well as the fact that employers are being paid a wage compensation during the period of repatriation of employees. Conversely, the employees sent home must take five days' vacation. In this way, both companies and employees are jointly taken up, and the solution that the Left believes is really good, especially in view of the fact that the number of new unemployed has increased by over 10,000 in just 2 days, 10,000 families who have experienced uncertainty about their living conditions, 10,000 conversations at the dinner table, where the sad message should be delivered to the nearest, 10,000 children who are no longer seeing Mom and Dad getting up in the morning and going to work, and unfortunately it is most likely that the curve has not broken yet, and therefore, as the Left sees it, there must be tougher measures than this pay compensation. That is why our negotiators sat all night negotiating an extended and better agreement, and here it was particularly important for us that the small businesses, the solo self-employed, people such as the hairdresser, the physiotherapist, the freelancer, the painter, were given a hand. They are an essential part of our economy, and therefore it was completely untenable that they were first left on the platform, and we are pleased that late last night agreement could be reached among all the parliamentary parties to bring these groups along and make a better agreement. But it is important to stress that we in the Left do not consider our task to be complete; neither this law nor the agreement of last night is the last thing we have to do. As the crisis bites more and more firmly, it is clear to us that there are still employees, that there are still self-employed, that there are still companies that need us to keep our hands under them so that they can keep their hands under us. We are also very aware that when we can once again go physically to work, when the stores again open, it is not all over with a fingertips. There are serious discussions waiting for us on how to get our gears smeared, so we get back into gear, because that doesn't happen by itself. That's why we're going to dig even deeper into the toolbox. We are going to reach the very back of our economic weapons cabinet and find out the big weapons. That is why we proposed that we should follow the recommendations of a large number of top economists who have recommended that we set up a corona fund. This fund is supposed to send a clear and clear signal to the outside world, to the markets, and not least to the hundreds of thousands of Danes who are currently walking around with a knot in their stomach and feeling insecure: We have your back; there's nothing we won't do to get you and us through this crisis whatever it takes. Fortunately, that reflects the agreement of last night too, and we are pleased about that. Because when it comes to health, we operate according to a precautionary principle, but that principle should not only apply to health, it should also apply to the economy and to jobs. Rather a step too much than a step too little, for when your house burns and the living room is on fire, you do not start to argue with the fireman about the price of the water and the snakes, and if anyone is in doubt: the house is burning now. That is why we must react, and that is why we must take the lead, and rather one step too much than one step too little. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120906	I believe that the English text meant something like whatever it cost. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319120918	Thank you for that, President. This is, of course, an important legislative proposal that we are dealing with, although it is relatively small, but it is part of a larger agreement where there is a great deal to be done with announcements. It compensates for loss of income, compensation for small self-employed people and compensation for wages if you send employees home because there is too little work. You can keep them in employment by giving companies a salary compensation of up to DKK 23,000. It can then be said that employees themselves pay something by taking a leave of absence, using a holiday week, and if they do not, they can take a self-paid holiday. In this context, I would also like to call on the companies themselves to look at whether they have employees who have a lot of time off, because they have the right to do so, just as they would like; it has nothing to do with this proposal, which only concerns the one week you could do it. But if there are some employees who have a lot of time off, then I think you should look at it, so that you could do something yourself in the companies. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased with the agreement that has been made. We are also pleased with the agreement which has now been held in the press conference on the fact that you do not use the benefit period, also that we have freelancers, so that those who do not have CVR numbers can come along, so that they can also get some benefits. A lot of things have happened here in the last period. I will not go into much more detail about this bill, which is a small proposal on the holiday law that we are going to bring here, and of course the Danish People's Party supports it. But I would like to take this opportunity to call on those who are in the private labour market; those who are in factories; those who go to construction sites to try to take account of each other; to make greater efforts in the field of hand hygiene; to use alcohol where you can now get alcohol; and to perhaps not all go into the van at once, but split up a little. The same applies in canteen at work: that you have to split up a little and take into account to avoid the close contact where you can. Where this can be avoided, each of us can make efforts to improve conditions and to avoid the spread of infection, which is important at this time. So it is a call to those on the private labour market who are, of course, the ones we cannot send home. There are a lot of public employees who have been sent home, but the private labour market is the ones that keep Denmark going, and if we were to send everyone home, we might as well close all of Denmark, so of course we cannot. However, I would urge that consideration be given to each other and not exactly to rub up on each other, but to avoid close contact with colleagues where you can now do so, and to keep a little distance and good cleaning and hand hygiene, both in canteen, in toilets, and whatever it is you get in contact with. I hope that these calls will be taken up in the private labour market. The Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121251	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121258	Thank you. I am just so proud of our people's rule these days. Al Christiansborgfnidder has been shelved, and the parties are united in getting Denmark safely and safely through this sudden crisis that we have ended up in. First of all, it is a health crisis, but we must also make sure that it does not result in an economic crisis involving a massive loss of jobs. And here it is not only the parties of the Folketing that are acting in haste, but also the social partners have come together. I have every credit for both employers and employees who quickly came to an agreement in which both companies and employees each increase their share of the burden. The Radical Left supports this bill, in which employees undertake to take five days' vacation in connection with repatriation from private companies. We knew that this agreement, made by employers and employees, would not be the last one in this time, and so I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the agreement from last night when all the parties in the Folketing have undertaken that we will do everything we need to take Denmark through this health crisis. In the Radical Left, we are ready to go further to ensure our businesses, our independent freelancers, unemployed and students, but there may be more who need our help, and we are ready for that too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121443	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121450	We hear this tripartite agreement being interpreted several times as if it were something for employees. It is, of course, true, but the interesting thing about the agreement is that it is a balanced agreement in which employees deliver five holiday days or days off, and that the company in turn gets the advantage of being able to keep in touch with employees. Danish society is taking a deep breath these days. We do this by providing the economy to confirm that the welfare society is a brilliant construction. That is also why we have to pay our taxes with pleasure, and the companies should go and pay corporate tax with pleasure. Tripartite agreements are an expression of our almost brilliant model of the labour market, and that can only be done because we have strong professional organisations on both sides of the table. The prerequisite for even being able to talk about a tripartite agreement and socialism in this situation is that we all support our trade unions. It is your membership of your union or as an employer to be a member of an employer's organisation that is your concrete contribution to community mind and solidarity. And if you try to fall under the radar and stand outside the professional community in a real union, you help to stick a stick in the wheel of the efficient machine that not only keeps the labour market but the whole of society going. It is a very good thing that the parties here at Castle are united in a time of crisis, but I would like to thank the tens of thousands of people who are paying contributions to the trade unions and the employers who are paying contributions to the employers' associations, which are therefore precisely so strong partners that we can now have a balanced tripartite agreement. The Danish model works every day in the workplace, and today it works here at Borgen. Think about it if you have chosen to be outside the professional community in a real union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121724	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319121732	Thank you. After all, everything we do at the moment is crisis management. We are in a serious situation and it requires action. The Corona crisis is spreading rapidly, not only in Denmark and Europe, but throughout the world. The health crisis continues, but is also already overturned in an economic crisis in which companies are suffering and tens of thousands of employees are already fired and hundreds of thousands are being sent home. That is why it is important that we act quickly. Thanks to the government and the parties for taking responsibility. We are fully aware that a further crisis agreement has been reached last night which takes account of further problems that have been raised. The tripartite agreement on wage compensation is an important step to ensure that as many employees as possible do not lose their jobs or go down in wages in the current situation. That is why we welcome the proposed law in its entirety. Although the five holiday days imposed on employees are not equal to our cup of tea, especially because of the problems of conversion under the new holiday law, we agree that this is what is going to happen in this agreement. We also agree that employees' rights have been tried out, although there are still a great many unanswered questions. This applies, for example, to how to define the salary to be covered. Are all employees and employee groups included? This applies, for example, to: Also apprentices, students with side jobs and employees on maternity leave and such things? And how do you settle disputes and complaints? Can they be treated in a professional manner? It is just to mention some of the questions that remain • questions that we are about to send about things that will soon turn into practical problems when companies need to use the agreement. We have asked a number of questions and we are also sending others, and I would like to say straight away that there is no unnecessary tiredness. It is simply to help clarity so that employees are safe in the conditions that exist. So it is not a problem that we are sending many questions. It is simply to anticipate the problems that can arise in practice. I hope that no one here believes that we can foresee all the specific problems that will arise between employers and employees in connection with this agreement. That is why it is right and important for us to have these questions addressed. The Enhedslisten is deeply concerned that all employees receive financial security during the Corona crisis. Salary compensation is a good contribution to this, but much remains to be done to ensure that everyone is financially guaranteed. We still need a safety net for all those without a box and in precarious employment. We still have to raise the daily subsistence allowance, which in many cases only covers half the wage. We need financial help for parents who have to stay at home because the children have been sent home and we need help for the socially weakest, who are currently affected by the 225-hour rule, even though it is impossible to meet it. I would like to conclude by calling for the spirit of society expressed in this agreement which has just been concluded between organized workers and employers. In my and Enhedslisten's optics we must all contribute, but we are very much aware that it will be socially fair. That is why it would be natural for companies that are not hit by the crisis, and the wealthiest in society, to contribute to the common fund with some of the billions of dollars in their possession. One can, of course, appropriately start by stopping the payment of all dividends and donating the money to the state's corona action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122110	The Corona epidemic has become more and more serious every day. Last Tuesday, among other things, was: restaurants, cafés and barbershops closed down completely, while at the same time banning assemblies of more than 10 people. These are necessary measures that hopefully reduce the spread of infection and can help save lives. At the same time, however, these measures have the effect of throwing industry into a deep crisis. Many companies have lost their earnings base and are now staring into the abyss. Action must therefore be taken now to secure the private sector against a collapse. I would like to use my rapporteur's speech to praise the government for having today reached a broad agreement with the parties of the Folketing on a new business aid package. It is an extremely important package that will particularly hold hands under the small businesses and the most affected industries in this difficult time. When we are in a time of crisis like this, our important institutions must take shape. The agreement on the new aid package shows that the cooperating government in Denmark is incredibly strong. The specific legislative proposal we are discussing today is part of the overall tripartite agreement on wage compensation. It thus translates the part which requires employees to give five days of leave against being able to keep their jobs. In the Conservative People's Party, we fully agree with this element of the agreement. In order to get through the crisis, it is necessary for everyone, both employees and employers, to show responsibility and bear the part of the bill that the Corona crisis will inevitably leave behind. The Conservative People's Party can therefore vote in favour of the bill. However, it is important to bear in mind that every day that goes by, the crisis in business is getting worse and worse. Even with the agreement on the new comprehensive package of aid that was concluded last night, we need to look at the need for further action on an ongoing basis. We are therefore pleased that the agreement now states that the parties behind it are prepared, if necessary, to give priority to a three-digit billion for possible new initiatives. We must all take the necessary steps to bring Danish companies and jobs best through the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122325	We are in a health crisis that is escalating and we are also in a threatening economic crisis. That's why all the parties of the Danish Parliament came together and found a solution. This is a solution that will help private employees, and it is a solution that will help small self-employed people. We fought, and I am proud that we have done so in such a way that the small self-employed who have been ordered to close down now receive 100% compensation for their fixed costs. This is a significant improvement on what was from the government. There is no doubt that the agreement would have looked different if only New Citizens had made it. However, it was crucial that we get an agreement in place quickly for the benefit of the small self-employed. And we will still fight away for frozen holiday money to come out; we will still fight away for taxes and taxes for business to be reduced so that we can get growth and speed up the wheels; and we will still fight away for the public sector too to look at if they cannot spend the money significantly better than they do. It is a shared responsibility and we are in a situation where we all have to take responsibility for moving Denmark out of the health crisis and ensuring that we also have an industry that can help us financially again when we are out on the other side of the health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122510	Thank you. I think we are many and more and more people who are reminded in these times that we must enjoy many of the benefits we have in society and that we may sometimes take for granted because they have become commonplace in our daily lives. For example, our infrastructure is that we can effectively move from A to B. In addition to our infrastructure, I also think about our health care system that we have an effective healthcare system. With the current crisis, we are reminded that it is not just something we can take for granted that it is a great privilege in our lives that we have a good health care and an efficient infrastructure. We are reminded that we cannot just take for granted that we have freedom of movement that we can move around and gather with those we want; go out and do the things we want to do. It's limited at the moment. It's not something we can just take for granted. We must rejoice that it is a freedom that we have in our daily lives, just as we must rejoice that we usually have freedom of nutrition, that is, the opportunity to set up a business and build up our life's work, to get food on the table in this way, but also to make sense in our own lives and make a difference to other people. There are many self - employed people who do not have that much freedom today. That is why we have also made agreements that take care of it. And we are also reminded that we cannot just take for granted that we have a job to stand up to and how much value it has with jobs in Denmark, because it makes sense in people's lives, because it provides food on the table, and because it provides a society in growth and development. This is why a collective parliament intervenes with various initiatives now to hold hands under Danish jobs with a historic tripartite agreement. I believe that in the coming years and months we will have to do more to maintain Danish jobs, to attract and to create new jobs on top of this crisis. Because that is something that I am convinced that in these days we are being reminded of is not just something we can take for granted. In fact, this is something we must fight to preserve, just as we must look forward to opening up society again, guaranteeing freedom of nutrition, freedom of movement and freedom of assembly. Freedom has a value, even if we have to limit it for a period of time. And we must also continue to strengthen our infrastructure in the coming years, to strengthen our health services, even if these are not times of crisis. So it's a slightly broader perspective on it. The specific draft law is about the tripartite agreement, about holding hands under the Danish employees, and the Liberal Alliance is in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319122803	Thank you for that and, above all, thank all the rapporteurs who have been able to express their support and support for this bill. This is, of course, a legislative proposal, which is only a small element of the tripartite agreement concluded on 14 March. And I agree with all the rapporteurs who use the word historically, not only about the situation and time we are living in, about the health crisis we are facing, about all the many measures, not least in relation to the great cohesion of the Folketing, but also about this tripartite agreement, which is certainly part of the category of historic. In the series of thanksgivings, I should also like to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for the agreement that has been reached here tonight and that has been presented this morning. That is, I think, not least another picture of what the Danish people's government can do, which it can clearly see that a number of parliamentary assemblies around the world are not able to do, but, in the context of the tripartite agreement that was concluded, it is also a reminder of how lucky we are and how grateful we should be to live in a country where we have for decades built up such a strong and solid welfare model, which is now showing its true strength and which can take place; and that is what the Danish labour market model did this weekend. As everyone knows, we are in an extraordinary situation. The current crisis of covid-19 leads to great uncertainty among Danish employees and companies. This has already resulted in a large number of redundancies in a number of private companies. We have taken a number of measures from the government to mitigate the worst consequences, to provide security for Danish employees, to hold hands under Danish economy and all to ensure that we stand stronger on the other side of the health crisis. And, as Minister for Employment, I am particularly pleased, as I said before, that the social partners take responsibility and show the social spirit when the crisis hits Danish society. Therefore, on 14 March 2020, the government and the social partners have concluded a tripartite agreement on temporary compensation for employees in the private labour market. The wage compensation scheme includes, inter alia: The following elements: compensation for employees will be 75%. of total wage costs and a maximum of 23,000 DKK. per month per month staff member; for non-members, the compensation shall not exceed 90%. and a maximum of DKK 26,000. per month per month employee. The differentiated model must be seen in the light of the existence of different conditions of employment for officials and non-members respectively. The employees to whom compensation is paid are repatriated and will not work during that period. As soon as the company needs the workers sent back again, they can call them in and the compensation will cease. The State finances wage compensation of up to 75% and 90% respectively. of the salaries of the transferred staff. The companies finance the rest and will not be able to give notice of redundancies during that period if they receive compensation for their wages. In addition, it is a prerequisite for the scheme that the individual employee to whom the company is seeking compensation should use a total of 5 days' leave and/or time off during the compensation period. If the employee does not have a holiday equivalent to 5 days, he must be free without pay or apply days from the new holiday year. In this way all parties give something to the state, employers and employees. This draft law ensures that employers and employees who are covered by a wage compensation scheme are given the maximum flexibility in terms of being able to enjoy holidays and other savings in employment, whatever the employment relationship may be. This means that a private employer who is responsible for making employees redundant can instead return employees on pay for a period of time and at the same time receive wage compensation from the State. The employer's right to compensation is subject to the condition that the employees covered by the scheme are paid during the period of repatriation, but not for a period of five days during which the employees concerned are instead required to take leave, leave or other savings in the employment relationship. The bill must come into force as soon as possible. I am convinced that with this proposal and the other measures we can help both employers and employees better through the difficult situation we are facing right now. It is also my expectation that both employers and employees will continue to show a strong social spirit in this context. Fortunately, we can already see that a large number of companies, since we published the agreement on Sunday, and even before we have adopted this bill, have begun to report to the public that they have an interest in entering the scheme. I think that is absolutely excellent. And I hope that, in this difficult situation, even more companies will take advantage of the historic opportunity we are giving here jointly by the Danish Parliament, employers and employees. I would like to thank you for today's debate and I look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319123400	We thank the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. As we are not yet ready for the third reading of Bill No. L 140, I have to postpone the sitting until 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319130038	The sitting is resumed. And the only item on the agenda now is the third reading of L 140. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319130111	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Here you go. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour, 92 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UGF)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319130815	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 March 2020 at 2.30 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
