ParlaMint-DK_20200131100004	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Carl Valentin (SF) and others.: Question No. F 38 (Will the Minister explain how a change in dietary composition with less meat and more green can help solve the climate and biodiversity crisis, and what will the government do to promote greener diets among Danes?). The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 8 January 2020, it was decided that the responsibility for various IT tasks relating to VIVE is transferred from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to the Minister for Finance. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 8 January 2020 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to the basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to the former, and contracts and supplier management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the VIVE • National Center for Social Security, under the terms of the agreement between the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs, is transferred from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to the Minister for Foreign Affairs per year. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100117	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 4 February 2020. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Ida Auken, and you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100151	As chairman of the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply, I can tell you that all the parties in the committee have made this question to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply in connection with the Minister's climate policy statement The climate is seriously on the agenda of the UN, the EU and national both in municipalities and regions, and every Thursday and Friday there are actually fire souls in front of Christiansborg and ministries and reminds us why it is so important that we also take responsibility within the walls of Christiansborg. The majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have concluded an agreement on a Climate Act, and during the next year significant milestones will have to be established in, among others. climate and action plan, EU climate legislation and COP26 in Glasgow. Against this background, we look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100246	Thank you. The next is the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100256	Thank you. The planet has a fever. The ice sheet and ice in Antarctica are melting, sea levels in the world's oceans are rising, extreme weather has become more and more frequent, and the risk of drought in some places and too much water elsewhere is increasing. In Denmark, too, we feel the changes. We had an unusually hot summer in 2018, autumn 2019 was record wet, and now we are at the end of a January month, which will also be record hot. This is worrying for our planet, and it is worrying for Denmark, and it is unfortunately the sad backdrop on which we have this question debate today. Yet I stand here and feel a certain optimism about an optimism based on how far we have actually moved in Denmark in the last year. The people have clearly given us a mandate during the parliamentary elections to move on the climate agenda, and the eight largest parties in the parliament have agreed to the goal of reducing Denmark's emissions by 70%. in 2030. And that's good. But, of course, that is not good enough. The figures speak their own clear language. Global emissions of greenhouse gases are increasing, and they have been virtually since 1970. If we do not act now, the consequences of the climate crisis will only get worse, and if we do not act now and act ambitiously, the countries of the world together cannot ensure that the climate consequences do not run out of control. Denmark stands for only 0.1%. of global greenhouse gas emissions. If we look in isolation at the reductions we can make in this country, then of course it is not enough to really change the world, but by taking the lead we can inspire other countries. We can create solutions in Denmark that others can learn from and implement themselves, and in this way we can make a much greater difference in small Denmark than the actual reductions. We have a unique opportunity to take the lead and show the rest of the world that it is possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining a healthy economy, a good competitiveness, a strong welfare society and that this can be done without creating more inequality. We are already in the short lifespan of the government well on the way. We have taken important steps in the right direction. In particular, I would like to highlight the Climate Law Agreement, which has been concluded by the government with a very broad majority in the Folketing. With the Climate Act, we will have a stable framework on climate policy. It is a framework based on a broad consensus that the way forward is climate-ambitious. We will have statutory targets of 70% reduction in 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. Those objectives will apply not only to this government but also to future governments. Once the Climate Act has been voted through, we can boast that Denmark has one of the world's most ambitious climate laws. We have also secured a historically green financial law. Here we have created the Danish Green Future Fund with a total capacity of 25 billion. kr. The Fund must contribute to green conversion, both nationally and globally, it must support the development and dissemination of new technologies, the conversion of energy systems to renewable energy and the promotion of green exports. We have allocated funds to take out low-level soils; we have allocated funds to ensure a greener transport sector; we have allocated considerable funds to ensure the expansion of green research in Denmark. The concrete climate measures of the government are not alone. They are also based on a completely new approach to making climate policy, an approach in which the climate and green transition are put at the centre. The government has set up the green government committee to ensure that climate, environment and nature are conceived across government policies. The Ministry of Finance has initiated work for green arithmetic models, so that climate, environment and nature also become factors when we make major economic decisions in Denmark in the future. Similarly, we have established and formed 13 climate partnerships with the business community. So we have already taken the first important steps towards the 70% target, but we still have a long way to go. We cannot just sit back and bask in the international recognition that we have set a very ambitious target. The next many years will offer hard work and difficult choices to achieve the goal. We can't reach the 70%. with a snap or with a simple plan. Significant reduction efforts are needed in all sectors for many years to come. To achieve the goal, we must initiate and operate a constant green transition. Climate action must go hand in hand with sustainable business development, competitiveness and always with a view to the social balance. But the mentality, the objectives and the cooperation on the climate are a completely different place than it was a year ago. Therefore, my hopes are also that in the future we can jointly take ownership of the climate crisis and ensure a significant reduction in Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions. 2020 will offer even more climate and even harder work. We in the government, in cooperation with you and in cooperation with the climate partnerships, industry, NGOs and not least as important, if not most importantly, the Danish citizens will find out how to ensure a constant green transition of Danish society, so we will never again experience a period in which Danish politicians do not take responsibility for and deal with the climate challenge. I look forward to future cooperation and the debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100928	Thank you. One brief comment is now available to the rapporteurs, and at least one has asked for it, and that is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131100937	Thank you very much and thank you for your statement. It is now almost seven months since we had a major climate choice. The Danes are ready; they beg and ask for action. Businesses are ready; they make proposals on proposals, they tackle their own emissions, and they actively enter into these climate partnerships. Scientists have given us 12 years, and that must only be 111⁄2 years. What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101006	Well, I certainly don't think we're waiting. When I attended COP25 in Madrid in December, Denmark was awarded the award for today's sunshine, ray of the day by the international green NGOs. Not so many years ago it was a completely different form of prices that Denmark received. The world out there has noticed that we have set very ambitious targets. We do it in the order that is also agreed in the understanding paper. We first create a Climate Act and under the Climate Act we launch the work that will lead to a climate action plan, which has now also been codified in the agreement we have made on the Climate Act in particular. In addition, there is a green Finance Act, which several representatives of parties present here today have called historically green and historically ambitious. So I really don't think we're waiting. Having said that, I fully share the impatience of the questioner. We need to go further, and we need to do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101106	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101109	There is no doubt that we are really, really busy, and we must also soon put it aside to talk about a 70-percent target, but talk about a 70-percent task. That is actually where I am, when I read the statement and hear the Minister's speech, thinking: where is the North Sea in all this? Denmark produces fossil fuels that help to destroy our climate, but it is absent in speech, absent in paper. So can the Minister say something about our own production of fossil fuels in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101146	The discussion that is currently under way is about the eighth round of invitations to tender, and I think that is a little to which the questioner also refers. That is more general, I understand from the rapporteur's facial expression. It is true that we are a nation which is also an oil producer. We've made about 500 billion after best memory. kr. since the 1970s on it in Denmark, and it is money that has gone to pay for the expansion of the Danish welfare society, and it is money that has also gone to pay for the green transition we have been through. So it has to be said that this has been important to us. How far into the future it must continue to be important and to what extent and in what way, is what the government is examining, as the rapporteur also well knows. We are listening to the arguments about the environment and climate. Just as far as the 70-percent objective is concerned, these very long prospects may not have so much to say, but that is why, of course, they have a very great impact on the objective of climate neutrality in 2050 in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101252	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101255	Thank you for a good speech, Minister. I would like to go into part of the report, where the Climate Council makes some recommendations for action that we can do on behalf of the climate. Among other things: they are addressing the aviation sector. The Minister also provides an answer in the statement, but with all due respect and in order to stay a little in the words of the aviation sector, I think it is a bit airy. That's why I'm gonna ask you about that part. After all, I assume that the Minister believes that social justice is important, and I actually assume that the Minister is aware that the green conversion will cost some money, and so I would like to ask directly whether the Minister could envisage introducing a passenger tax, as proposed by the SF, which could turn the first billion into climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101347	I actually saw in today's press that an opinion poll had been carried out, asking the Danes if they would pay, and the happy news is that they would like to pay a large majority would like to pay taxes on flights. The less joyful news is then when you ask if it will change your behavior, because then a large majority say no. Moreover, when people are asked whether people generally fly too much, there is also a majority saying yes, but when you ask if they fly too much themselves, there is also a large majority saying no. Well, this is not said to be cheerful, it is said to nuance the debate, because one can of course choose to introduce such a tax if the aim is to obtain a revenue which one can then use for some green stuff. We can discuss this, of course, but I do not think that we should do so, nor do I accuse the rapporteur of blinking in the eyes of the rapporteur and of claiming that it will have a very high behavioural effect. That is why I believe that the most important thing to do is to support the development of green air transport, that is. e.g. incorporation requirements, i.e. the development of those types of fuels which will make air transport more sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101459	Thank you. Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101501	Thank you to the Minister for a good speech. It was great to feel right down here in the back of the hall that there's real passion in this and that you really mean it and are deeply worried. I believe that we all share that concern, and that is also why we have concluded the agreement on the Climate Act. That agreement also says that we need to get some action plans under way. We need to start shopping now. There I would like to ask what is holding the Minister back from inviting us over and saying: this is where we are standing right now; that is what I imagine; these are the pieces we have to move with. And in addition, when will we get that invitation? Because we really want to see the minister a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101542	Thanks for the nice words. Without being polemical, it may sound that way, but it is certainly not meant that way. I think the rapporteur knows how complicated these things are, since the rapporteur's party has just been in power for four years without presenting anything. Now we have been in power for six months, when we have made a climate law that I am very, very happy that the Left is also in it. Nothing's holding us back. We are working as quickly as we can at all, and very soon there will also be a road map so that we can deal with what we are dealing with and when. But we're quite busy, I don't think anyone can be in doubt about that. That is also why, with the Finance Act, we took really big steps ^ but not at all enough instead of saving them for a climate trade plan. So we're on it, and it's gotta go stronger. As soon as we are ready, there is a roadmap.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101634	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101637	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is certainly no surprise that I share the impatience expressed down here from the ranks, both in relation to aviation tax, the North Sea and much else. However, what I really want to ask is something that the Minister himself is also touching on in his speech, namely the citizens and the involvement of citizens. Because we have agreed in our good agreement on a new climate bill that we should have a citizen's thing. Recently, the committee held a meeting here with a number of experts who said that you have one chance; if you do not do this correctly, if you do not actually create real involvement, then the citizens will think it is scam and scam. That's why I'm thinking we're in a hurry. I'm sure you're very busy preparing the negotiating room over at the Ministry, but can't some citizens be called into this citizen thing right now or soon? That is why I would like to ask the Minister specifically: when will there be a date for these citizens to be convened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101737	I think I must say with all due respect to anyone who, in today's debate, might want to ask questions centred on dates, that I am not going to bring so many of them. But assurances that we are working as fast as we can and that things are going to go fast, I can give you. I certainly share the impatience. I am very, very pleased that we are now going to have a citizen's thing. It was the alternative's idea, it was they who brought it up, and we've embraced the idea. But a great deal of praise for the alternative of pushing and getting it into the climate laws negotiations. Now we are talking to some of the same experts, stakeholders and citizens that you have spoken to in the committee to get it screwed up as well as possible. But it is clear that the result of the input we get from there must, of course, be available at a time when it makes sense, so we must start with it as soon as possible. So it's on the stairs, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101831	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101835	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. I have given some thought to whether restrictions have been imposed on coffee over in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, because I do not think that this is the case with either the Minister or the Ministry. I don't think it's so much that we get invited over to coffee. It is not the coffee in itself that I want to come for; I want to come so that we can move on a little. I am not trying to lure any date out of the Minister, but I would really like to try to hear a little about this with the interaction between climate partnerships and climate action plans, or are they climate action plans? It is extremely difficult for us politically to prepare the work we are going to do when we have no idea at all what the whole setup will be like. And we really want to use the time we have now as constructively as possible to prepare ourselves so that we are perfectly ready when the minister gets coffee on the pot at some point. So can the Minister try to make us a little bit more aware of the process we are facing and how things are to be thought together?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131101937	When there isn't so much time to drink coffee, it's just because I know that sometimes I get pulled over here and have to answer: Why don't you work harder with the other things? So, yes, I can make my time go, but I look forward very much to drinking more coffee, not least with the rapporteur. But joke aside. I think that a good starting point is that we look each other in the eye and say that this is after all the year 0 for the Climate Act. And that means that the new procedures and the new annual wheels that will work, and, of course, in particular, the fact that we will have to negotiate an indicative milestone for 2025 and associated a plan of action, is what will be the framework for our negotiations. It also says in the Climate Act, if we get it adopted. I certainly expect that with the agreement we have there will be sectoral strategies. So when there is a little confusion about terminology, about whether it is a plan of action or a plan of action, the most correct way to say it is that there has to be one action plan, but that there must also be action plans, which then are sectoral strategies, because this should, of course, deal with all parts of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102046	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102050	Thank you. After all, we have already heard a bit of the thought in which the parliamentary basis of the government is moving. So it is something about charges on aircraft and something about not extracting green oil green oil? ) from the North Sea • Danish oil production is the most climate-friendly at all in the world • things that absolutely no climate effect will have, but of course will bother very many citizens and the technological development that must bring us forward. That is why I would just like to ask what the Minister is thinking about the political landscape in which he must navigate. There is no doubt that you have a very spiritually darkened socialist option on your left, and then you have an outward-looking, innovative forward-looking bourgeois alternative on the other hand. It is a sad crossroads to have to stand by and, you might say, as a minister at such a young age to have to make such a decisive choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102154	There are many challenges in my job, and there are also many joys. One of them is one I didn't think I was going to experience, namely to fight the climate struggle side by side, shoulder by shoulder with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, so I really look forward to it, although of course I do not share Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's characterization of the parties over here on this side of the hall, which fortunately supports the government. We are very much looking forward to cooperation and, of course, I hope that we can get equally broad agreements when it comes to how we achieve the objectives that we have achieved in terms of setting targets, even more broadly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102234	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. There are 10 minutes left for each rapporteur. We will start with the rapporteur for the questions, and that is Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131102255	Denmark has had a climate choice. I have been dreaming about this personally for 15 or 20 years, and so I would like to start by thanking all of you out there who have moved Denmark, who has moved the political attitude, and who has created the political will that makes us suddenly many at Christiansborg who want to move on this agenda. It cannot be underestimated. Thanks also to companies that are actually very, very active in the fight to do something about climate change. They set high ambitions. I also hear from the climate partnerships that they are slightly ignoring the Prime Minister's wish that it should cost nothing, because of course it costs something to invest in the green transition, but it comes back to us so many times that we get a cleaner energy that we get a more efficient industry, that we develop new technologies, that we get cleaner air, that we get more energy security so that we do not depend on Saudi Arabia and other countries. So it's a fantastic time we're in, but we're in a hurry too. Scientists have given us 12 years to seriously slow down this development and reverse it, and now it's not even 12 more years, because it's almost a year ago it came from them. Now it's 11 years we've got to turn things around. That is also why we are so impatient to move forward, because it is very good that we have together set ourselves an ambitious climate target of 70%. CO2 But there are so many strategic decisions to be taken, there are so many important messages waiting from the political side to move forward, and that is why we want a climate action plan as soon as possible. Now Mrs Mette Abildgaard asks the minister what the setup should be like and she uses the wording: we have no idea what the setup should be like. It is also a new country that we are entering. What should a climate action plan look like? We have described some of this in our Climate Law Agreement and in our understanding paper, but we haven't done it before. There I would like to try radically to talk a little about how we could imagine such an architecture on a climate action plan. Because of course we see the 70-percent target as the completely governing one and, of course, the long-term goal of being completely climate neutral by 2050. We believe that we can do so even before, but of course we stick to the agreements we have made. Then you can create an overall structure where you take some of the cross-cutting decisions. For example: will we have to look into each other's eyes and say: Will we use what the economic wise men call the sharpest knife in the drawer • CO 2 Do we want to use that tool? We think that would be economically sensible, and when Radicals suggested going out and making a CO2 because both the greens and the business spokesmen could see the point in making it more expensive to pollute, making it more expensive to use the wrong things and actually rewarding those who go ahead. So we need to clarify this, because it plays an extremely important part in all the pillars, you might say, all the sectoral strategies that we need to create. If we go out and use CO2 that's why it's one of the very first decisions we need to make: do we have the courage to go down this road? It is also something that can provide some funding at a time when other taxes will disappear, for example. As we're going to have a new big electric car phase. This is crucial in relation to the second major issue, which is also cross-cutting and which is: Wipe the public front and use our huge purchasing muscle to drive the market? The public buys for 320 billion. kr. a year. DI has proposed that the 80 billion. kr. of them, i.e. everything we buy from goods, is thought green from the start. After all, when you shop both in the municipalities and in the state, you can think together the different administrations, so that you think it may be that it is a little more expensive in purchasing, but on the other hand it is much cheaper to operate. We know that it is cheaper to drive electric cars, because they must have much, much cheaper fuel than petrol and diesel cars, so even if they have to be bought in a little more expensive, it comes back many times. The same applies to more climate-friendly construction. Do we dare go ahead? One could imagine the public authorities saying that by 2030 we are not buying buildings or building new buildings that have no CO2 Think if we set ourselves that goal? Then I can promise you that the contractors would start to say: we build more wood, because it counts positively, and then we go out and pressure the concrete suppliers to give us some more green concrete and to get new fuels in and to collect CO2 That's what would create an innovation in that sector, and I hope we dare make such a decision to buy wisely into the public sector. It takes a fight with the way you normally think about both in the Ministry of Finance, which certainly does not want to think particularly long-term and holistic in this area, but also in the municipalities, where you have to have a talk about whether they should stand and ask for money for everything that needs to be done, or whether they as a municipality can also take responsibility for any of this. Then we have to make Denmark this green entrepreneurial country, this living laboratory that the whole world is looking at and saying: Here we want to try some things off and work with the Danes. What is in the understanding paper is that we want to turn Denmark into a green entrepreneurial nation. Imagine that we are using all our innovation centres in the world, imagine that we are using the State of Green not only to sell Denmark, but also to draw people to the country, innovative forces that can come to this country and get to know: Do I have a technology that can help at the 70-percent target? Can I quickly approve this technology and try it out; can I be put together with a municipality or an organization, some restaurateurs or others who would like to try out some new technologies; can I be put together with a university that has some knowledge; can I be put together with some investors if I put a part of my business in Denmark? We can stay where we take technologies and scale them up to the first level, so that China, India and others can say: well, it can work. We can do what we have done with wind turbines in a wide range of areas. After all, it is important that those who sit and have to implement the research funds know what we strategically want so that they can support it with all the resources we have set aside for it. Then we must also have a cross-cutting decision on biomass, because there is not enough biomass to burn it both for district heating and hope that it can turn into fuels for the aviation industry and shipping. No one has been able to show in any way that there should be enough biomass. We had a hearing in the Danish Parliament's Energy Committee yesterday, where it was established with seven-inch nails that biomass cannot be used in all sectors. We have said clearly to the district heating sector: you have to switch to heat pumps, you have to switch to geothermal. Biomass is too valuable; we need it elsewhere. It is the overall decisions that need to be taken and they need to be taken quickly. We must also say to our energy sector, to the electricity sector, that we mean this with 1-1.5 million electric cars, so you might as well start getting ready. The investments that need to be made must now be made so that citizens can actually buy an electric car safely. And it may turn out to be cheaper per year. single kilowatt-time when there are more running through the system out there. It does not need to be combined to become more expensive, even if it is large investments that need to be made. We need to work out our offshore wind strategy. At any rate, we need to build two more offshore wind farms by 2030 in order to achieve the target we have in 100 per cent. Green power in Denmark. However, we must also put our offshore wind island in the lake, and preferably along with the other European countries near us, so that we can produce so much green power in the North Sea that it is also really beginning to supply the other European countries with energy and may even turn into green liquid fuels in what is called electrofuels, for the aviation industry, shipping and heavy transport. These are some decisions we can make now and quickly. Then it is clear that we must have all the pillars in place in an action plan, and it is clear that some of them will have to sign up until we get it in, for example. The Eldrup Commission will not come forward with their proposals for car taxation until the summer. But then you can say that the target is 1 to 1.5 million electric cars, because that is what has to be delivered in the transport sector, but when the Eldrup Commission's proposal comes in, we will ensure that this car tax is paid. We need to create the pillar for the transport sector, where, in addition to the electric cars, we need to look at heavy transport and stop fossil cars. There is the aviation tax mentioned earlier, which is a very important matter for the Radical Left. And then there is mobility, because it could be that we could get more people into the same cars. There's the heavy industry. We need to have a look at new fuels and what is called CO 2 2 There we believe radically that we need to make a whole strategy to make Denmark a leading country when it comes to taking CO2 We still have a task in the energy sector to get individual households away from individual heating with oil pine and natural gas pine. We need to get the biomass out. We need to get the infrastructure in place. We need a forest plan for Denmark. We need a plan for set-aside so that these things are thought together. And we need to talk about our agriculture. Should it continue to be primarily an animal production? Could it be that we also have to work towards a more plant-based agriculture that may be more forward-looking? Then we need a strategy for construction. We need one for waste and for circular economy. I very much hope that the Minister is cheering on all his colleagues and that all this is on the way. We just don't hear so much. That's why we're so impatient, because we've been discussing this and thinking about this for a really long time. We have a whole world that's ready. We have an industry that's ready. We have a business community that has almost been more ambitious than us politicians. We have a population screaming for action right now. And we have a climate that can't wait any longer. So, Minister, I ask again: when will there be a climate action plan and what will it look like? I look forward to hearing what all the other parties are thinking about in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103252	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103256	Thank you, and thank you for a very good speech, in which the rapporteur really did get around the very complex but also super exciting task that we are going to have to do. We're about to shape the society of the future through this work. I have a slightly specific question, and that is about the North Sea. I am really, really glad that we have changed our position on the eighth round of calls for tenders by the Radicals, that we no longer support the one we think it should be stopped. And one of the arguments has been that we should not continue oil and gas production far into the 2050s, and that is why the next question comes, of course, from all the written questions that I have asked in this area: what about the seventh round of invitations to tender, which has been advocated in the past? Are you willing to look at it too? I mean, we can't keep pumping oil and gas out of our underground. The supply also has something to do with it, not just demand. So where do radicals stand in relation to the seventh round of invitations to tender?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103355	But it is quite true that the Radical Left moved when the world was turned upside down, one might say. When professional knowledge went from saying that stopping extraction in the North Sea would cost about 1 million. t CO 2 No, it will actually have a positive climate effect. That was what moved us, that is, when the climate argument suddenly turned the right way and it had a real effect to stop the eighth round of invitations to tender. And it is clear that it made us say: Well, but if the reality is the reverse of what we thought, and that has a positive effect, then we must also move. In addition, I think it is a bad investment for Denmark. I think it is simply a small investment to put more money into oil and gas infrastructure at this time. You can see from the world's stocks that you have lost if you have invested in oil and gas in the last 7 years compared to investing elsewhere. And we don't necessarily think that the seventh round of invitations to tender is going to run all the way to the end and into the 2050s. Actually, I think it's gonna be closed by now. But Denmark also has credibility, and when we have granted some permits and when we have set something in motion, we must also stand by it, even if we have become wiser since then. So we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103459	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103501	I don't think there's any discussion about whether this is a bad business. And not least, it's a bad business because we're ruining our climate. In terms of credibility: what about the credibility of taking it seriously when we say that we are among the most ambitious when we make a climate law with a 70-percent reduction? Is it not also a question of credibility and not just that we have made an agreement with some private companies that, through their work, through their business models, are helping to destroy our climate? Is not credibility in relation to climate work also important?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103536	Yeah, it's crucial. But this is not going to mean anything seriously in relation to the 70-percent objective. There I think the alternative has got a little bit of confusion on its radar. For what is playing does not count in our 70-percent objective, we just have to make that clear. It does the extraction itself. But it may be that it can be solved in other ways. What is important to us is that when Denmark goes down to the European Investment Bank and says: Listen, we are somewhere in the history of the world where we should not put more money in fossil infrastructure and we ask the EUD to stop, should we ourselves go out and put new money in fossil infrastructure? I do not think that is the case, and I hope that the government will have a consistent position here, where the Minister for Climate Affairs is acting in accordance with the wise words of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103616	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103620	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur. The last year must have been a victory, both with the elections and with the attention given to the climate issue. And I think it is quite clear down here that this really is something that the rapporteur is concerned about. The young people have taken the matter to heart, the people, the whole world is crying out for action. I would therefore just like to know whether the rapporteur would look around the Chamber once and see whether the representation here also reflects the enthusiasm that the rapporteur thinks is outside the House. Well, I haven't seen a single parliamentary candidate in this election campaign at least not from the red parties who think the world is not going to end if we don't act on the climate debate. Where are they today? Where are the Socialists and Enhedslisten and Mr. Friends of Rasmus Nordqvist? So where are all these people who have been saying for years that we are now 11 hours and 59 minutes? Why haven't they come down here? Today it must be almost Christmas Eve for them. Then why does Mrs. Ida Auken have to stand here alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103724	I don't feel alone at all. I hope they do their job. I hope, then, that our tax rapporteurs are working towards a green tax and that our research rapporteurs are implementing the research funds in a green way. And it is almost too cheap to start hanging out your party colleagues in the Folketing when the rapporteur knows very well that, when there are debates of this kind, it is the rapporteurs who come down here. So you could take virtually any debate and say that we could spend all our time sitting here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but we could also go out and do a lot of important work around. I do not really think it belongs in a debate here to say: look where everyone is missing. Where are all the members of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103802	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103803	After all, the rapporteur has been busy calling us climate freaks. So it may be that you stay a little away. In other words, it is quite common for us to have a greater interest in major debates, the debate on finance law, but it goes without saying, for example. Only one year ahead. This, I understand, is something that is about the survival of the planet over the next 100 years. Maybe it's a little inappropriate, but I don't think it is. In fact, I think it is worth a reflection that Mrs Ida Auken should stand and fight that battle alone, having made it such an important theme. I mean, is there anyone else from Radical here? Maybe I don't know any of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103840	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103841	I don't think they're counting on me to do the job. I think they simply have full confidence that I may have a very good handle on it. Then I would just like to remind you that the word "climate" came from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard the other way. There's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, sometimes doing the storywriting a little bit about it. It was Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who called us other climate freaks. I'm just glad that DF has also been included on this agenda. Then I have to say that it is true that this statement is in the old system. It is in the old climate law, which is currently in force and is weaker. When we get the new system under the Climate Act, where it is the Minister who really has to stand with the action plan and where all the rapporteurs have something to do, I hope they are sitting here. So I would like to say that to the rapporteur. In other words, when we break into the new system, I dream that it will be as big as the financial law debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103928	Thank you. Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131103930	Thank you to the rapporteur. I consider us to be colleagues here today. I would like to ask the rapporteur if she agrees with the criticism made by Mr Seligman. Lars Rebien Sørensen, former CEO in Novo Nordisk, here during the week, where he said a little that in the autumn, when Dansk Industri reported out and said that Danish business can be a part of this, that is to say, help deliver compared to the 70%, at the same time it also happened that it was a rather large report that Dansk Industri came along with. There were a lot of suggestions about what should be of improvements in general business policy in Denmark, so that Danish business can help deliver on it. Does the rapporteur agree with the criticism that a little has been forgotten in the subsequent debate on, for example, the Finance Act and the other things that have happened since?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104016	I don't agree with that way, sir. Lars Rebien Sørensen makes the criticism because it sounds as if the climate effort is not balanced and well thought out. It is, and it has been devised with the business community well along the way, and I believe that some of the calculations that come out of the climate partnerships will show that this is a really good business for Denmark. These are some big investments, but they make themselves back home many times, and I would like to sign off on the fact that the entire Danish business community has made itself available in this way. It is true, then, that the other industrial policy cannot be set aside, for example. to get foreign workers to Denmark, so that the many companies crying out for labour can also get employees to do so. I think this is an equally important task to bear in mind, i.e. that other framework conditions can also be provided. Of course, this is not quite as important as the climate, but the companies that have to solve all this for us must also be well in relation to employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104106	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104107	Thank you. It is also clear from the rapporteur's speech that the Radical Left is prepared to go very far for this, and it is good to see it. I would like to ask: is there anything that the Radical Left does not want to help save the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104124	We would rather not be involved in initiatives that do not have a real climate effect. I mean, I don't really think we can afford to come out with something that isn't really green; it should have an effect. That is also why we started thinking: what is the effect of the North Sea? One might say that if it had given more CO2 2 I also think that it is important that we take leadership and show other countries that they can leave the oil in the ground. So this thing about doing things that seem right but that don't really give a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104205	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104209	Thank you for that and thank you for an excellent speech with several good points and good proposals, including the proposal for green tax reform. We really need to reform so that we do not overtax low-emission cars and we do not overtax the use of electricity and surplus heat and other things, and so we tax CO2 so I really would like to praise you for that. A little further than that, sir. Tommy Ahler's question about Lars Rebien Sørensen's comments I would also like to ask a few questions about the global outlook, because the Radical Left is not exactly known for being such a nationalist or navel-looking party, but for having a global view. One of the good things highlighted in the statement is this partnership between Denmark and China to use Danish technology on their coal power plants, so that they become more flexible and can turn up the use of wind power when the wind blows. Once fully implemented, it will reduce the Chinese CO2 t, that is to say more than what we are ever going to reduce the Danish CO2 2 Does the rapporteur not think that in the coming climate policy in Denmark we should focus more on precisely the type of initiatives where every year, with Danish investment abroad, we can reduce CO2 2 t CO2 Not that the two things are mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104324	No, exactly. It's not a either or. The reason why we can sell wind power in the world and help people manage and balance power plants with wind power is that we have always been ahead. Similarly, we believe that we are actually getting very far in the energy sector. Now we have to bring in transport and we have to convert agriculture. For us to continue to have something to advise the world about, we must keep on taking the lead. But it is well captured by the rapporteur. I ran out of time in my speech in what was about the global pillar and everything we are doing here. After all, it is a question of 0.1%. of the world's CO2 That is why we radically believe that it is extremely important that the business community is as much involved as they are now, and it is also about finding new solutions and new technologies, and that we have to put the taxes and regulations right, so that we reward those who are ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104413	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104415	Now I am going to ask a hypothetical question, but it is still relevant, because it may well be a situation we will face in the future, that we have a limited amount of money we can spend in Denmark, and that the choice may be between spending a few billion kroner on trying to achieve the objective of the Climate Act and perhaps reducing the Danish CO 2 t CO 2 2 t CO 2 If the choice is between reducing abroad by 200 mio. t CO 2 Is it important to do something in the wider world or to meet the objectives of the Minister of Climate Change?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104500	The simple answer is that this is not the choice we have. We do not have the choice to decide whether we should do something or whether the others should do something. I simply do not accept the premise. We have set aside both money to make an effort with aid in the world, with green diplomacy and to do something at home, and it must be thought together. So an either-or-question of this kind seems to me to be an exaggeration on the part of an otherwise wise rapporteur when we actually have funds for both and it's about thinking it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104528	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104533	Thank you. The rapporteur was asked earlier by someone who has now left the Chamber where all those who were interested in this were. I can only say in all humility that the Left is the party that has the most Members present in today's debate, and I can then be proud of that. The rapporteur replied before Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers, that the Radical Left would not be so keen on making initiatives that do not have a real climate effect. That is why I would like to ask you about the discussion on an airline tax, because that is a matter for the Radical Left. But what about the effect of the airport charge? Does it really have such a climate effect? And what do radicals think of this when the rapporteur has just said that there is not so much for those proposals that are not really batting in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104623	Yes, it is a question of whether it has a real behavior-regulating effect. It has to be said that air transport has fallen by 11%. in Sweden and, after all, that is something that is worth looking at. But what has been crucial for us was what was spent on, that is to say that the money that is being collected from the airport tax is actually spent on making the green aviation fuels that the industry has also started to look at. It will have a real climate effect if we can take the wind power and tie it to CO2 So that's why we're not just going to make a tax screw if we don't ensure that it has a climate effect or that the proceeds are spent in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104705	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104707	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken for her answer. One should then remember to have the international global outlook here, because it is of no use if you fly a little less from Malmö, but then just take the plane from Kastrup; then it hasn't had an effect on the overall discharge. But do I understand the answer of the Radicals that, if you want to support measures that work, then it is enough for the Radicals too if the proceeds that come up with a measure that may not work are spent on something green? Or how am I supposed to understand the radical rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104740	Now the rapporteur is talking about the international outlook, and then I have to say that the only country that the rapporteur looks around with no air fares is Denmark. It is actually us who sit and with a good Danish word piggybacker on the Swedes and the Germans. So I really think it is a little shameful that we are trying to drag air transport here from the other countries instead of saying: of course we must also have an air tax. And if we turn it high enough, it will have a behavior-regulating effect, but I think it is important that that money is spent on getting a green air transport. In other words, it is important for us that this money goes to green aviation fuels in one way or another. So that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104819	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131104834	Thank you. The climate policy statement is an annual recurring event, but fortunately there is not so much business as usual over 2019 when it comes to the climate debate. I am therefore also very pleased with the section in the climate policy statement that has been titled "A New Direction for Danish Climate Action," because this headline is not just an attempt at smart communication, and it is not an exaggeration. Try to remember just one year back to January 2019 and think about how far we have come since that starting point, not least with the Climate Act's broad agreement on the 70-percent target. As a Social Democrat, I am proud to be part of a party that takes the climate action seriously, but as a democrat at all I am proud to be part of a Danish Parliament, where across so many parties we stand together on ambitious goals. This cooperation will be so much needed in the future too, because, as everyone knows, much needs to be done and time is short, and the task of green conversion and development is extensive. Our energy system must be converted from a system where the green is part of the classic energy production, to a system based solely on sustainable sources. It is no longer enough for us to be good at making green electricity, but we must also be able to save it and integrate it across sectors, and not least we must be able to convert it to green fuels that will be so crucial for the green conversion of transport. This requires energy projects on a completely new scale, and we have a responsibility for this in the political framework; that they allow for innovation and technical and commercial breakthroughs, which are so crucial to reaching 70%. At the same time, we also need to be better at making full use of energy. We need to be energy efficient and we need to be much better at ensuring that the materials we use are truly sustainable. All these things, and much more, I am sure that we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss when we are going to embark on the climate action plans and the concrete implementation of the 70-percent target. I therefore welcome the climate policy statement which is showing momentum in climate policy and, above all, I welcome the fact that, hopefully, in the coming year, we will have even greater chances of showing the Danes that we are a cooperative Parliament that will deliver on the green agenda. With this I would like to read out a proposal for adoption by the parties behind the Climate Act: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the seriousness of the climate challenge and the need for rapid and ambitious action. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that Denmark has achieved a national goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030, in relation to the 1990 level, and in addition, to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest with the objective of the Paris Agreement of 1.5 degrees in view. The Danish Parliament notes that this effort must take account of the guiding principles set out in the Climate Act Agreement. The Folketing therefore considers it essential that the objectives be followed by ambitious and active action. The Danish Parliament therefore urges the government to provide an overview of the future process and to start negotiations on the elements to be included in a climate action plan that illustrates the way to achieve Denmark's reduction targets. Parliament also calls on the government to increase the ambitions for Denmark's global climate action, including under the auspices of the EU and the UN, as well as in bilateral energy cooperation. V 55). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105203	Thank you. Perhaps the rapporteur can say what parties are behind the Climate Act, so we are in favour of who is behind the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105217	Yes, it is S, SF, Radical, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Danish People's Party, Left and Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105224	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105226	Thanks for a good speech. Could the rapporteur not reveal to us what it was that made the Social Democrat Party, the rapporteur's party, change its position on what reduction target we should be pursuing? In the election campaign, the Social Democratic Party had a reduction target of 60%, and shortly after the election campaign was over, it was changed to 70%. What was the process? What convinced the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105249	Well, what convinced us was listening to the research that is out there, which is very overwhelming and points out that we need to act more ambitiously. That is why we agreed to the 70-percent target, because we came to the conclusion that we also think it is the only right thing, especially when a country like Denmark is so far ahead of the green transition and has been one of those who has driven the green transition and also out in the rest of the world has made it a business adventure. We really think it is appropriate that we continue to raise the level of ambition when it comes to the green transition. And that is why we are pleased that we have today agreed to the 70-percent objective and are so much the banner leader for it. Then I can add that I think it is nice that the Left was certainly not 60%, if you can say so at all, where you are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105333	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105344	We have also become wiser; I just wanted to know what process you had been through, because we had a slightly different process. I have a follow-up question. Now that the rapporteur highlights the importance of business, does it not make the impression that we had this autumn when business also said that it is a bad idea to raise the generational tax to triple, given the climate investment they are going to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105412	No, I would say that that part did not really impress me so much. I think it's very normal when you lose a privilege that you yell about it. But that does not mean that I do not think it is quite fair that when you inherit very large sums of money, very large sums of money, it also pays a fair tax. We have enough major problems with inequality in this society, and we want to contribute to it being less.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105442	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105444	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a good speech and for the cooperation on climate change. Something that's really important is that one thing is this 70% that we can do at home. But something else that has been very much advanced is also Denmark's share of global emissions, because we have huge consumption. We have a great deal of agricultural production where a large part of the emissions that occur globally are not reflected at all in the figures we usually get as Denmark's emissions. Is this also something that the rapporteur thinks we should work much more actively on to look at what our private consumption creates from emissions, for example in the production countries, and, in relation to agriculture, to look at the emissions that are not happening at home, but are happening because we import feed, for example? Is this also something that the rapporteur will help to look at when we are about to take the decisive action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105538	Yeah, I think so. I think it is a very important part of the climate debate that we should not stare blindly at only the 70-percent objective. I am also pleased that in the Climate Act we got written in that it is important to clarify the Danes' consumption. Because we live in a global world, and a great many of our emissions take place elsewhere around the globe, and of course we have a responsibility to ensure that those emissions are also brought down. Certainly, I do not think we should forget that aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105610	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105611	Now I asked the Minister and now I would also like to ask the Social Democrats about the North Sea and the production we have of oil and gas in the North Sea. For it is still the party, the Social Democratic Party, which the rapporteur represents. Has progress been made within the parliamentary group on where we stand in relation to this continuing oil hunt we have in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105635	I think it is a very wise decision by the government to fully clarify this before a decision is taken to clarify both the climate and the economic consequences of shutting down activities in the North Sea earlier. So I think it is a good thing that we are going to have a thorough account of this, because it is a great decision and it has been very difficult to make it on the basis of the things that have been before us. One report says one, the other report says the other. So we need a sufficiently enlightened basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105709	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105713	Thank you for a good speech from the rapporteur and for exemplary cooperation on climate legislation. I think that is important to hold on to. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about some of the legholds for the green transition that I think you are experiencing locally. I experience, when I'm out talking about the Climate Act, that I'm met by: How nice that you have such ambition. Why can't we get the district heating out here where we have natural gas? Why do we have to stop our solar system on the municipal roof? What is the rapporteur doing in terms of the green leg buckles that have been laid out, I have to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105751	I think there's definitely some leg buckles. We're gonna have to, among other things. Look at this way that we think and calculate the socio-economics. There are certainly some climate considerations that we need to be better able to take in. But for example... in relation to this with the municipal projects etc. I also think we should be honest and say that just because something is green does not necessarily mean that it is the best way to spend our money. Because we need to spend our money where we get as much green conversion as possible for the money. And I don't know if that's where we patch up all municipal buildings with solar cells. I simply do not know whether this is where we get the most out of the green transition cost-effectively. So I also think it is an important thing to bear in mind that it is taxes for 2 billion. kr. that we're gonna be missing if we just removed this rule right away. I think we should look at where we get as much money as possible for the state when we go in and help invest in green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105852	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105853	I think we all agree that this transition must be done in both the clever and the crazy best way. In relation to the solar cells on the municipal roofs, we are currently faced with the situation that the installations have been set up. But let me move on to that, for example. the green heat and district heating. Could it not be imagined that we could look at this specific project notice, to which the rapporteur also refers, where there are, of course, some socio-economic calculations which today favour a gas solution rather than district heating? Would it not be possible to tackle it now rather than push it in front of you?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131105929	I certainly think that the discussion about our future infrastructure and how we create the framework for the best possible green transition in an economically responsible way are relevant. So without saying what the specific road map is for that I do not think it falls to me to say that it is certainly important that we continue to discuss our infrastructure and whether we have made the right arrangements in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110001	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110005	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech. The rapporteur said in a reply before that it was important for the Social Democratic Party to address the inequality in Denmark. I would like to say that we in the Left fully agree with the rapporteur that it is important that we do not have too much inequality in Denmark. But am I to understand that it will be the position of the Social Democrats in the forthcoming negotiations on a climate action plan that, if the very best initiatives to achieve the very ambitious objective that we are all agreed on will make the inequality rise just a tiny bit, the Socialists will not help to make the sensible, wise and climate-wise green decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110049	I think that is a very, very hypothetical question. What must be the task if we are doing something in the climate policy area that contributes to inequality is, of course, that we then make sure that we have compensated some other places, so that we do not compromise on the strong principles on which our welfare society is built: that there are equal opportunities for people, that we have solidarity across generations and across different groups in our societies. So I think it is a very hypothetical question which I really have a little difficulty taking seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110124	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110129	In fact, I am truly sorry. I think I am trying to bring a serious input into the debate, and that was not really hypothetical. It was more like that in principle. In other words, how much priority is given to this agenda? Are you ready to take initiatives that hurt, to use a popular expression, on some other things? What is most important is that the water does not rise or that inequality does not increase? In fact, it is more a question of principle than a hypothetical question. So perhaps the rapporteur, and I think this in all seriousness, could make some observations on a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110207	Well, quite basically, I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that Denmark is an equal and democratic society, and I think that if we start taking a lot of climate change initiatives that cause inequality to rise a lot, we will lose popular support, also for the green transition. So we must pursue an ambitious climate policy. We must take the initiatives that need to be taken, but I do not recognise that we cannot at the same time maintain that we must be an equal and a just society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110233	The next question is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110242	Thank you. I'm gonna have to follow up on sir. Tommy Ahlers' question, because it almost ran down my back when I heard the rapporteur say that with the generational tax, which is tripled, only some people were deprived of some privileges. That's all right. That's a crazy language in my world. However, I would like to try to ask more about this, because now is the climate we are discussing today, and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not listen to companies. For example, they have been out saying: Well, it is clear that when we are going to pay a higher tax and it is not money that we have standing on the account, we just can unleash, we have to sell out of our goods and have to realize this money, and that goes, among other things. in addition to our future investments, such as green investments. They have therefore pointed out that their ability to promote green conversion will be reduced when we go in and demand this threefold increase in taxation. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is helping to slow down the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110335	I believe that there are a great many other good things we can do to help businesses move towards the green transition, and that is among other things. That is why we have set up climate partnerships. It is precisely to get a very good dialogue and get the good ideas on the ground, including from the companies themselves, in terms of how we design our business, how we design our regulation smartly, how we remove the stones that can lie on the road, to succeed as a company with its green transition and at the same time still earn money. Because it is clear that this is what we want. We want companies that have been converted, but it should not be the case that there is no profit or jobs left. So I'm not really worried that this very thing with the generational tax is going to slow down the green transition. I am sure that we can have a dialogue that will enable us to create very good conditions for business to also make money and, at the same time, be very ambitious in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110429	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110433	But when the rapporteur says that she is not concerned, she must think that she knows better than the companies that are in this situation, because they have actually expressed this concern. You have specifically said to us politicians: this will have consequences for the pace of our green transition. Then it is fine to create a climate partnership where you catch up with ideas. Yes, here is a concrete idea from these companies: drop the treble of the tax that goes beyond the green transition. So why does the rapporteur not think that there is cause for concern when that is exactly what companies are saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110502	After all, there are many things and many requests for tax relief and special arrangements, and so on, about which one can say that it would be something that could help us with the green transition. I understand that there are companies who are also trying to place this concern in the context of the green transition, but I would also warn a little against taking it 100 percent for good goods. As I said, I am sure that we can find a great many good opportunities and also create a good framework for companies to succeed with the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110540	The next question is to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110543	A few months ago, I asked the Socialist Minister for Economic Affairs what Denmark should think when we went down to the European Investment Bank where we sit on the board. For the investment bank has actually invested in fossil fuels, and then this response came from the Social Democratic Minister for Business: it is my clear opinion that the EIB should have an ambitious approach to the energy projects receiving funding. My wish is that the EIB should stop financing energy projects linked to fossil fuels as soon as possible. Will the Socialist rapporteur explain to me why this does not apply at home? Why is it not true with regard to the North Sea that we should stop funding energy projects linked to fossil fuels as soon as possible? Why is the North Sea even being considered? Why is it that one only has a clear position when it is the European Investment Bank, but not when it is oneself that can make money from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110634	In fact, I think it makes a great deal of sense to say this to the European Investment Bank and that the Minister for Business is sending this signal that all right, here we have a huge pile of money, and what are we going to do with them? Should we call for them to be channelled into fossil industries? Or should we call for everything to be channelled into the green area where there is a screaming need for capital? So, in fact, I do not think that, when we have to decide whether it should be possible for others to invest in the North Sea, also in the future, it is contrary to us then to ensure that it is done on an enlightened basis, where we have analysed these very different reports coming around the North Sea and what climatic consequences and what economic consequences it has to shut down production in the past. So I don't think these things conflict with each other. Because we need a lot more money that will be channelled into green investment, and one of the biggest challenges we face is to raise capital and facilitate it to the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110741	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110745	I also think it makes very good sense to say to the EIB that they should not spend more money on fossil fuels and spend them on green ones. Then I just cannot understand that the clear position, the principled approach, does not apply to your own purse. After all, it is easy to have clear attitudes to other people's purses. Why doesn't it apply at home? Why does it only apply in the EU? Why is there no clear position at home? Social democracy must explain to us how we can have such a clear position of principle on the European Investment Bank, but not on Danish investment. For the rest of the world, it must be virtually impossible to understand, and it seems that you have two opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110821	I would just like to reiterate that it is important for us to see both the climate and the economic consequences in relation to the North Sea, and a plan has been drawn up for this to be examined and then a decision will be taken. So it is not the case that a decision is not taken at some point, but it has to be done on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110847	The next question is Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110850	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the issue of an air tax. This is something we have been discussing politically for some time now, and today there was a survey which was published and which shows that a majority of Danes actually seem to think that it is a good idea for there to be an air tax. After all, we have talked a little about how many people are sitting in here today, but after all we represent some mandates, and when I count after that, there are Enhedslisten, SF, Radicals and the Alternative, who would like to make an air tax. So if the Socialists support that idea, we are actually a majority. That is why I want to hear what is holding the Socialists back from agreeing to the very good idea of making an air tax, so that we in Denmark do not stand as one of only four European countries without an air tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131110943	After all, the social democracy has always said that we need to look at air traffic and that we need to look at how to make air traffic more sustainable, and we are certainly open to discussing the different models that may exist. However, what has been important to us is that we should have a model that brings about a real change in the aircraft sector, and that is why we have been more warm on mixing requirements, because then we know that some more green fuel will actually come into the planes that take off. I can be more in doubt that if it is just a tax that we are transferring to either consumer or company, it will bring about real green conversion. But of course it is also a question of what we do about the proceeds and where the money goes in, and I find that interesting to examine deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111032	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111035	I certainly agree with the rapporteur that it may actually be a very good idea to look at an incorporation requirement, because there are already technologies, Power-to-X and other things that could actually be put into the aircraft quickly and thus create incentives for a greener aviation sector. However, when you ask the aviation sector itself, they also say that you could spend money on an airline tax and just put money into these technologies. That is why I think that the two things are also connected. An air tax could be imposed on those companies which continue to fly old fuels and exempt them from those who use the green ones. Is this not an idea that the Socialists might think is good?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111124	Well, I certainly think that there are some really exciting thoughts coming up, and there are a lot of ideas coming up, you can say when we talk air fares, mixing requirements, etc. There are many parties who have made their bids, the industry has made their bids, and now the climate partnership for aircraft is also looking at something of the same. So I think we've come to try to sit down and look at everything and see how we get the most real change in the aviation industry, what kind of initiatives we can take there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111152	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111205	I would like to address the same subject as Mr. Morten Dahlin mentioned, because I understood from the rapporteur that it was almost a hypothetical situation that the green transition could increase inequality. I don't think it's that hypothetical. In other words, if you imagine that the green cars, such as Tesla, will be exempt from tax, then the Tesla of the wealthy will be cheaper. If you imagine that the companies involved in the climate partnerships will experience green growth, yes, then directors' salaries will rise and the richest shareholders in those companies will get a higher return. In this way some of the richest Danes would become even richer on the green transition, and the inequality would increase. So I do not really think it is so hypothetical again, and I just have to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur recognise that this is very likely, and is the answer then that compensatory reforms need to be made? In other words, should we commit ourselves to making compensatory reforms? It could be higher top tax, or whatever. Should the same principle not also apply in relation to the measures of green conversion that will cost jobs, cost growth and cost employment? Because some of the green measures will do the same. Should we not commit ourselves equally to making compensatory reforms in those areas, as well as making compensatory reforms that reduce inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111314	Those were several questions at once, but yes, of course. If we do something in the green transition, which is going to hurt in some places, we must of course do what we can to bring about conversion. In other words, if there is any production that we are not going to have in the future, we must ensure that, in return, there are new opportunities elsewhere. So, of course, we have to walk on two legs there. After all, these principles of the green transition were discussed a great deal in connection with the Climate Act. We discussed the importance of taking account of social balances. We discussed the importance of taking account of competitiveness. We also argued that it should not be read, as the Devil reads the Bible, but that we should be reasonable and balanced. So it's not like we're going to use these principles incorrectly to set foot for all change and development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111407	The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111411	Thank you, President. I would just like the rapporteur, in relation to what we have heard about the aircraft industry, to say very briefly what the priority is for social democracy if you had to choose between flying less kilometres and deriving less CO2 flown kilometres.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111436	I'm not sure I understood the question 100 percent. I'm gonna have to ask you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111445	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111447	We hear from the Socialist parties that it is an end in itself that people have to fly less. And there it could just be nice to hear whether the Social Democratic Party shares that ambition, or whether the ambition of the Social Democratic Party may rather be that when you fly, you have to fly greener and then, if we can fly greener, it is completely unproblematic how much we fly. In other words, will the Social Democrats give priority to citizens having to fly less or to the flight that is taking place on a greener basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111517	When I look forward to the future, I do not see a future in which we have stopped flying, but a future in which we have managed to change air traffic. I think that is very important. I think that consideration can be given to flying less and limiting your flight, but what must be the ambition is to make a real transformation of the aviation sector. There are also many good things that have followed: that we have the opportunity to fly around the world; trade; understanding of other cultures etc. So in this way, I think there are limits to how far we should go in relation to flight shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111600	Thus all the questions to the Socialist rapporteur were answered at this stage. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish Liberal Party, the Left, and that is Mr. Tommy Ahlers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131111612	Thank you for the floor. We are not going to discuss maternity today, but I actually think that maternity for men is a completely brilliant idea, because our climate rapporteur, Thomas Danielsen, has been on maternity leave for six months, and this has enabled me to be climate rapporteur. I'm glad. I think that we all feel that the reason why we have entered politics is to help define the future and the future should be better than what we come from. And I cannot imagine a policy area that is more crucial for the future, both close to and far away, than what we are discussing here today, namely climate policy. Something hits us as a huge challenge, and something is bad, another hits us as some great opportunities we have as a society. The future that we want to shape is a future that shows that it is possible to have a society that is sustainable. It is a society in which, through our consumption, through what we want, and through our welfare, we do not punish the planet. But we do want to do it in a way, and I feel fortunately that is an ambition that we all share, so that when we get through with it, when we are in 2050 • perhaps even before • and have succeeded in having a society in which we have a climate-neutral society, is a rich society and a free society and also still away is an equal society. We seeded much of this back in 2018 with the Energy Agreement, which is an agreement between all the Danish Parliament's parties. All the parties are behind an objective of climate neutrality by 2050. Now we have gone a step further with the agreement that most parties are behind: the agreement on the Climate Act, in which we say that we must have a 70% reduction. already in 2030. That's good, because all the reports we see are getting science smarter and smarter in that area... say we have to act and we have to act now. One would like to quote the defunct chairman of the SF: The ice is melting at the pools; this is serious. I didn't mean to make fun of mr. Villy Søvndal, because he was right. It's happening, and it happened then, and it's accelerating now. And we are even in some places there, when you listen to science, that no matter how much we talk, it may be that suddenly something happens that we cannot completely control. That is why it is quite drastic. But even if what we are facing is drastically what we are facing in Denmark, and what we are facing internationally, I hope that we can maintain the faith that it can be done and also maintain optimism. The old Max Frisch once said that a crisis is a productive state, as long as one removes the taste of disaster. That's really how I feel about this. I know that this could be disastrous, but we cannot afford pessimism at the moment. We need hope. And when I look at the business community, when I look at the research, when I look at Danish entrepreneurs and indeed also when I look at the political will that is here in Denmark and fortunately also in many other countries, I actually get hope. So I'm thinking, this is gonna work. It is possible to achieve a 70% reduction. in 2030 and it is possible to reach climate neutrality by 2050. I know that the road to that is not going to be easy, because it is filled with a lot of priorities that we have to make, and it is filled with a lot of areas where we have to do things differently, because that requires the green transition. In fact, it is both nationally and globally a huge change management project that we have started with. But hope and dream that it can be done does not do so alone. We have to act, and we really do have lots of parties, and I can also sense that from the debate that has been so far here today, that feels like this: Dan, let us in, let us into your war room; where you sit with all the pieces you can move around with, where you have one thing over here that can reduce by 0.5 million. t, another thing that can reduce it by 1.5 million. t, while there may be a third thing that can reduce it by 2 million. t, but where you think it's really expensive to involve us in the work, call us into the negotiations now. And we don't expect you to come up with a perfect plan for the first meeting. We want to share in thinking with you, because we know that this is a great challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112104	I have to correct the rapporteur. You have to address the Minister with the Minister at least in the Assembly Hall. Although the Minister certainly welcomes anything else, it is said that the Minister is a member of the Council of Ministers. That's just a little adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112119	So, dear Minister, call me! We'll be there. I was a business rapporteur here for the first six months of my parliamentary career, and I did end up discussing climate very much. Now I am the climate rapporteur, and that is where I find it funny to discuss business policy incredibly much. In fact, I think that very well illustrates how climate and industry are related. Enterprise policy is climate policy and climate policy is enterprise policy. I think that is quite clear, and I also think that I sense an agreement on this, also with the work that the government has put forward on the climate partnerships, that there is a clear understanding that those who come up with the solutions and those who are ready to do so are the business community. It's not us here who are doing a new thing and finding a better way to do it. We can set the framework for this, but those who will deliver on it are the business community. They do so for three reasons. The first is that it is they who can do it. It is they who are the consumers who have the opportunity to do so. That's the one. The other is that it's a good business. One of the first years at CBS teaches that one of the classic dilemmas in a company is to optimize for short-term profit or long-term relevance. That is what all the companies have to say. They may have a few years if they do not do something in terms of sustainability and climate where they can get a little more profit, but then it may be that they simply do not exist in 5 or 10 years' time. They face that, so they know they have to, but they also know it's a good business, because this is not just a Danish trend. It's an international trend. Then there's the international. Danish companies are much more international than Danish politicians. They are out there with their factories, with their employees around the world and with their consumers and the companies they work with. They can affect it very directly. Now that they can deliver and will deliver, and they have said so clearly, we owe it to them too to give something the other way. So when they come in and bid in with their input to our climate action plan and say that this is something they need, we should listen and not just say that we know better. I think the things we're going to do fall into three boxes. The first is that we are going to remove things that simply stand in the way of the green transition. It can be a tax, a ban, a strange rule. The second is that we are going to do things that push development. We're going to see if we can make some standards. We are going to look at how we can use the tax instrument. The third is that, in general, we must give them a good framework. We must give Danish industry a good framework. Of course, it is about education and research, but it is also about tax for Danish business. I believe that Danish industry, both large old companies and entrepreneurs, together with research, is the crunch in all of this, and that is why we must listen when they come, and that is why we must also dare to set the direction of research. We have to dare more and we have to invest more. Another dimension I would like to highlight here at the end is the international dimension. It must have a prominent place. I think that the way we have done this is very sensible, where we say that we want to show the whole world that it is possible to create a society that is linked in a sustainable way, and that is why we are sticking to 70%. with a focus on what is happening in Denmark, but it is of no use if it results in us just raising emissions abroad instead. Then it won't be real green, and we owe it to the planet to make the real green. It is also very important, because the best thing we can do for the competitiveness of Danish industry is, as the proposal for adoption also proposes, to ensure that the other countries raise the level of ambition, because if we are the only ones with this high level of ambition, then the other countries are not through the priorities that we have come through, and we must ensure that they are. Finally, we in the Left believe that this can be done. We will insist that it is possible to do so in a way in which we still have a free and prosperous society. But, Minister, let's get started. Now it's the turn of the climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112534	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, a speech that was full of commitment and very interesting to listen to. The rapporteur, who is also a well-known former businessman in Denmark, said that climate policy is an enterprise policy, and I fully agree with that, and so I would like to ask a few questions about the position of the Left on it. Because it is the case today that there is CO 2 2 I would say that they should also be asked to pay part of the bill. That would be most fair, even to small businesses, and then we would have to use that revenue and actually provide it as a subsidy to those who provide green solutions in the industry. Could that not also be the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112636	As a very general principle of the transition we are about to embark on here, we will also see what the price of CO2 is. Having said that, we must also look at why some are excluded. Is it some where we have a very, very high risk of leakage and where production, if we impose some taxes on them, just move abroad and then we have not made the real green? That is the balance we must strike in it. But we do not have an area where we say that absolutely must not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112702	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112705	In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur that we need to look at what the price of CO2 is, I think it is artificially low today, in terms of how much damage it is going to do in the long term. So I welcome the openness of the rapporteur. I still believe that the biggest emitters should also contribute to the project, also because they could be used to actually kick life into the business world where there are really good ideas in the small companies that are today going to pay for cashiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112737	It could also be some of the biggest emitters, because they also have the advantage that pollution is very concentrated. So it might well be that some of the new technologies around carbon storage simply make sense to those where it makes no sense for other small businesses and it is society that has to help them with it. So they also have some other instruments that they need to look at and that we may also need to look at with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112759	The next question is Mrs Signe Munk of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112803	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good and committed speech. There is no doubt that if you quote Villy Søvndal, you win my heart. But when Villy Søvndal for 10 years said that the ice is melling at the poles, I also just have to say when you were in government yourself four years ago: The ice was also melling at the poles 4 years ago. And perhaps I would have liked that concern about climate to have occurred earlier with the ruling party of the Left. If we look at the statistics contained in the climate policy statement, it is unfortunately clear that emissions have been stagnating and rising during the reign of the Left. Does the rapporteur think that there was something that could have been better done in the previous government in the area of climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112858	Now it's only been nine years since Mr. Villy Søvndal said this, but it should not change the fact that I am also standing here admitting that we are doing so in general, as I also heard the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party earlier said that we have become wiser. We also said 60%. in the election campaign, and now we are behind a 70-percent target, and that is also because we are listening to the research that is just more and more massively pointing in this direction. It is true that it melted then, but it is also accelerated massively over the years, and when I look back on earlier, compared to where we are now, I think since I feel like we could have wished that we had done even more. But to say that we didn't do anything, I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112940	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131112944	With all due respect, I didn't say the government didn't do anything. I said, could you have wanted to have done something different? What I would like to hear about specifically is that under Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government, as one of the first, the climate target was sent to count, that is, the target we had from 2020, with a greenhouse gas reduction target of 40%. Could it be imagined that it would have been beneficial not to leave that part of the former Climate Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113008	I simply do not know the details as to why it happened, so unfortunately I cannot give a proper answer to that. I am glad that we are here today, when we are behind a target of 70% reduction in 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113020	The next question is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113024	I would also like to thank you for a good and committed speech and also thank you to the Left for supporting the 70-percent target. One of the most difficult sectors to convert and where we have some major challenges in terms of reducing emissions is agriculture. So I would like to hear what you are really doing about considerations in the Left in relation to reducing agricultural emissions. What do you have of ideas on how to solve that challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113054	Some of the ideas have already been on the table, in relation to set-aside. Now I look forward to all 13 climate partnerships reporting, but if there is one that I think is particularly interesting, then it is because they are facing massive challenges. Because if we do a projection of agriculture, if we just do a base projection now, they will account for almost half of the emissions, as I remember the figures, by 2030. So we're gonna have to take a look at that. But what I just experience when I talk to farmers, broadly speaking, is that they feel like the rest of the Danish business community: they want to join in. You are also aware that Danish agriculture will only be relevant in future, as I also said in my speech, if it is that they can point to a sustainable way of doing so. And that is why we must listen to it when they come up with their proposals on how to help them and what they want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113149	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113157	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good and very committed speech. And I think it is important in this debate on climate action that we do not stand and punch each other in the head with when we have entered one or the other. But we also have to be honest about the fact that it is not a new research in the last six months that has allowed us to talk at least a 70-percent reduction by 2030. It is research that has been there for many years. So it is the political will to move forward that has come, it is not new research that has made it suddenly moved. I would very much like to hear the rapporteur now say that climate policy is an enterprise policy, and I really think it should be reversed, because all policy is climate policy, that business policy is climate policy, what the rapporteur and the Left think about, for example, much more regulation in relation to our consumption in general. These days there is fashion week in Copenhagen, and it is one of the industries that is most climate-laden at all. And are the rapporteur and the Liberals prepared to start going in and regulating much harder in the industries that are going to undergo a change and are not going at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113313	Thank you for your question and also thank the rapporteur for the praise. And it is funny that the issue of the fashion industry comes from someone who has worked in the fashion industry, and you think whether the conscience is almost as black as if you had worked in the oil industry. Because it is true that the fashion industry is a major contributing factor and actually pollutes more than the shipping and aviation industries together. At least some figures indicate that. So the rapporteur is quite right. We just have the approach that we are looking at developments. I have tried to be out talking at a high school, and when you ask how many people wear only recycled clothes, suddenly we are in a situation where it is 25% that answers that they do. So I think that a long way along the way... now I pointed to the research before we moved too. That's what we see, too. The people, especially the young people, are saying: we have to solve this. And they're ready to do something for themselves, why not let them do it for themselves? What I'm experiencing in the fashion business, and what you can see in many of the big fashion companies, is that they're ready to move on to this. So let's see if they can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113412	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113415	So I have to ask the rapporteur: how long do we have to wait for the industry to move forward? How long do we have to wait for a change in consumer habits when we are faced with a climate crisis now and here? Should we then just go and wait for things to happen on their own, or should we actually dare to intervene? One of the reasons why I have actually gone into politics is to create action so that we can have hope. So you do not create action by standing and waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113445	I just stood by and said that we absolutely shouldn't wait. I have said to the Minister: invite us now to embark on the climate action plans. However, I cannot stand by and say that we must now regulate the specific industry because of this problem. We need to hear what they report back with, and then when we look at these trends about changing consumption, they spread very, very quickly. For example: If you ask Danish supermarkets in their meat sales, the decrease • if you ask Danish supermarkets • in their meat sales. So consumers can make their own choices. They're also aware that they need to change habits to solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions at this stage and therefore it is time to welcome the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. And this is sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131113533	Thank you, President, and thank all colleagues for their interesting contributions. Immediately before Christmas, after intense negotiations, we managed to reach a broad agreement on a climate bill. Now it has to be exciting to see whether it can also be translated into broad agreements on the action plans, where we will then just as well be moved forward in the process. Now it is no longer just about birds on the roof, but about actually getting them into the oven so that it can be translated into reality. We are also looking forward to this in the Danish People's Party, not least because in this debate as well as outside this House you can hear that there are like two roads. When you hear the questions that Mr. Tommy Ahlers puts forward, and as Mrs Mette Abildgaard puts it, they clearly go in the same direction as we in the Danish People's Party want: that you have to engage with the business community, that it is not necessarily about eating differently or promoting less or something like that, so that you so radically try to change your everyday life, but that our everyday life can continue, almost as unaffected as possible, just in a greener way. A direction in which the technologies used in the transport sector, in agriculture, in industry, etc. is no longer fossil-dependent, but green. We in the Danish People's Party consider this to be a prospect. In the face of the prospect, there is the solid socialist darkness in which one is concerned only with people having to eat fewer steaks or travel less on vacation and basically becoming such a clone by Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who with Fjällräven on his back can drive around in his collectivist thoughts on a bike, I suppose. And that is not our ambition, and that is why it is always a well-thought-out and pragmatic minister in a dilemma. Should he look left in the direction of those who hold him in government offices, or should he look right in the direction of reason? It is a great choice and we would be very happy to contribute to the Minister's having to make the right decision. It is an ideological choice, and in this way climate policy is also an ideological battlefield. But we in the Danish People's Party would really like to make a positive contribution to the fact that this agenda and this policy can be implemented in a way where it will not be a matter of spending money, but in the long term it is something that can be a good business for Denmark. And we actually believe that can be done. Last week we held a climate hearing in this house, where we had invited speakers from outside: from Danish Business, from maritime Denmark, from Danish Energy and from Agriculture and Food. Four key sectors of Danish society, all of which made positive suggestions on how to ensure the green transition and at the same time ensure that this is something that does not knock the bottom out of the Treasury or even worse the private economy. We are very concerned about this, and we therefore very much hope that in the negotiations that can start at some point when it fits in with the climate minister's calendar, we will listen and take a close look at the recommendations of the 13 sector groups that we hope will be given very soon. One of the points which I think Mrs Ida Auken has made, but which is nevertheless important to clarify, is the question of the whole of the infrastructure. I sat here before the debate and looked at the report that Energinet made here six months ago, which deals with the analysis assumptions that might apply to the green transition. And if you look at it as well as what the consultation answers say, then there is something here that may well seem a little technical and boring. It is not something that you can just go out and win an election campaign on the ground, and it is that the whole prerequisite for the green transition to become a reality is the fundamental question of whether the entire electricity infrastructure is up to date and whether planning to ensure that it is forward-looking is also good enough in relation to the very extensive electrification of society that we are facing. After all, we have the debate in Central and South Jutland at the moment in relation to offshore wind farms and how to let the new cables run. If they are to be in the ground, they must be on top, etc.? But basically: if we are to move away from natural gas and oil burners and to heat pumps, if we are to move away from diesel and petrol-powered cars and to electric cars, etc., if we are to have large geothermal plants and heat pumps into district heating production, there will be much greater production and a greater take-off of electricity. I think that some of the consultation responses we have seen in relation to the Danish Energy Agency's policy and Energinet Denmark's future planning indicate that there is an area that has been neglected here. This is something in which we are talking about quite large investments, but investments that are just absolutely necessary if everything we want to be able to do is also possible. One can say that if we do nothing other than plan electric cars and heat pumps and electrification of trains, then one thing happens the day we plug it into the outlet, and that is that there is no stump, because then the system breaks down. That's why we have to think about these, too, maybe a little less sexy areas. I hope that will also play a role here in today's debate as well as in future negotiations. So with the somewhat polemical introduction, I choose to make a very specific point which concerns us very much in the Danish People's Party and which I therefore hope the Minister will address in his reply and summing up after the debate here, and hopefully he will be able to meet the concerns that we in the Danish People's Party too, but also some of the players who are out there in reality, have. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114154	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Really?). Of course there is. And the first to ask a few questions is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114206	I am, of course, one of the so-called dark-headed socialists mentioned earlier by the rapporteur in this debate, and I would really like to ask a question to which the rapporteur refers a little bit here, but has also said something about recent times, namely that the rapporteur may very heroically want to come and save the climate struggle from bicycling vegans in recycling noise. ▪ I would just like to ask the rapporteur what is wrong with cycling vegans in recycled clothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114246	There is nothing wrong with it as long as it is voluntary, so long as no one comes and tells other people who don't want to ride a bike or be vegans or wear recycling clothes that they do something wrong. After all, I do not know how Mrs Mai Villadsen has come here, nor do I know from where she has acquired her clothes or what else might take place in her private life, but I am quite convinced that she is comfortable with her own decisions. It is just that in all humility I ask that she then have the same decency towards people who had to make some other choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114309	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114312	In this way, however, I think it is actually a little artificially set up, that is, when the rapporteur says that the Minister is faced with an ideological choice. Because although I have come here by bicycle, I will not force all people in Denmark to cycle, eat vegan or wear recycled clothes, but I will make it advantageous to do those things. This is precisely what climate policy is all about, i.e. whether you believe that it is technological fix in the future that will solve it, or whether you are actually listening to the experts and the Climate Council, who is pointing out that it must be easier to make the green choices. I still think so. So I think it should be easier to be a cycling vegan in recycling clothes, but I don't think anyone in the Folketing wants to force people to have a special lifestyle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114357	It can be said that, within the ideology of the rapporteur, there is an interesting crossroads between animating people on the tax instrument and forcing them on a regular basis. These considerations intersect. After all, there are many world-historical examples of this which I am sure the rapporteur knows a lot about. But I can make it a little concrete. The rapporteur's party, for example, is: In favour of road pricing, it is a clear wish that people should get out of their cars. And I assume that it is not the intention that they should be transported less and that, of course, it can be an electric wheel for which an incentive is created, but it could also be doing what the rapporteur himself does, namely taking the bicycle. When we can hear that you want to make it more expensive to eat good Danish steaks, it is because we have to go to some bed steaks or something. I just think that the proposals made by the rapporteur's party, which make it more difficult to live the life that most Danes want, are bad proposals. That is socialism, and we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114444	The next question is Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114449	The darkening of the spirit. Socialist. Climate freak. Red mercenary. Dear child has many names. Although I can hear from the rapporteur that he prefers to keep such people as me from the door, you still have to think about us with all the nicknames you make up. Well, then, to the question. The rapporteur, I see, is very concerned about technology development. So could I ask the rapporteur to say more about where we think there is a perspective in the development of technology in the climate area, and what is the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114528	An example could be the European project called Clean Sky, which tries to use the residues in agriculture and convert them into jet fuel, that is to say fuels, which can then be used for aircraft leaving, among other things. from Denmark, fly on so that you no longer need to use the fossil fuels you have today. You can use the sources that are just rotting in the fields today. It's gonna take some investment. We're gonna have to, among other things. have some refineries which are able to transform straw and straw, etc. I am sorry, Mr President, that I cannot come up with a Danish expression and that requires some investment. That's what we're talking about. We think, for example, that we should use the North Sea money to finance this green conversion, which is why we are quite instinctively opposed to the socialist policy, which states that we no longer have to extract North Sea oil. So, as long as there is a global demand for oil, we must, of course, ensure that our good green CO2 so I hope that the rapporteur will respond with one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114628	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114631	The rapporteur would like to, because it outlines exactly what I am experiencing a little is a challenge for the climate policy of the Danish People's Party. On the one hand, I hear the rapporteur say that this green transition must not cost anything, but on the other hand he says that technology is important. The best example we have of technological development, which has brought Denmark a long way in the area of climate policy today, is wind turbines. It was, it has to be said, deeply supported by the state, both in relation to tests and in relation to grants. Now we may soon enter a non-supported era, we will be doing it already on land winds. Hopefully, this will also be the case soon when it comes to sea winds. The North Sea oil revenues have already been calculated into the Danish economy, so if you had to take them and use them only on the green conversion, then there would also be something going from welfare. But I just want to hear from the rapporteur how he can bring the two ends together, in other words that it must not cost anything to achieve the 70-percent target, while at the same time recognising that there must be investment in these technologies, so that we have the potential we hope for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114729	I just didn't say it couldn't cost anything. After all, there are plenty of examples of the rapporteur himself bringing some of them in that the Danish state has gone in and invested in something that has since proved to be a good business. Well, it was also expensive to build the Great Belt Bridge, but it has become a surplus business today. As regards, for example, It is clear that refineries for the development of new fuels will be an investment, which we therefore point out, among other things. the North Sea money and which we will be helping to finance. And then you might be able to do it with business, perhaps the aviation industry or others who might be interested in it. In this way, you can create something that can eventually become a good business. So it's about us investing some money now, which will then be a good business in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114805	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114809	Thank you. Can I just sign for the speech? It's a pleasure to hear Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt's fight against climate socialism and fight for a sensible bourgeois climate policy. It is a sincere praise, but there is always room for improvement. One of the things I've been wondering a little bit about is the fact that, in connection with this climate change law, the possibility of using quota cancellations has largely been waived. When you look at the EU's quota system today, there is a surplus of quotas and if Denmark makes use of quota cancellations within the flexibility mechanism. up to 800,000 tonnes a year • environmental economic wise men say that for every tonne of CO2 2 It will also have the advantage that the quota system is more balanced and de facto increases CO2 Why does the Danish People's Party not want to make use of that method? Is this not an example of a way to push a market-based green transition, not one that demands taxes, coercion and cycling vegans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131114920	I do not know from where the rapporteur has taken the view that we in the Danish People's Party should be against quota cancellations. It is explicitly formulated in the Climate Act as one of the tools that can be used as we approach 2030. It is, of course, on the understanding that we are in agreement and that sort of thing. But we fully agree with the analysis that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, come with me. I can also say that one of the reasons why I have my computer with me is that I am sitting here writing on a motion for a resolution to open up the possibility of going in as a private citizen to buy quotas for destruction. That could be done up to ten years ago, but for some reason it has been removed. This has meant that all those people who would like to spend their own money on some benevolent initiatives have been chased out on various more or less dubious websites where they have then bought such quota credits, where half of them turn out to be a scam and scam. If, as a citizen, you could actually go in and buy quotas that have been then taken for destruction, I think we would see a great interest in that, just as you can give a goat to your neighbor for a birthday present and thus do something good for Africa, if you feel solidarity with them, you can buy a quota for destruction, and then you can give it to Mrs Ida Auken for a birthday present and have done something good for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115023	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115026	This is a motion for a resolution that we will support, and if the DF would not put it forward, we would have tabled a proposal ourselves. So it's excellent (Morten Messerschmidt We can do it together). Well, let's do it. I'll look forward to it. But just to get the nuances in place: what you have signed up to in the Climate Act is that you will refrain from using quota cancellations unless it is absolutely necessary. If we have the consensus that we have, the rapporteur must also admit that we have actually signed the Climate Act, that we do not want to make use of the smartest and most cost-effective methods, and thus we have actually supported a climate law which, at least on this route, is not very sensible. That's kind of what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115104	I would like to come to the rapporteur's attention. If this was a climate law that we bourgeois parties had made alone, it would have looked different. There is no doubt about that. Now, of course, we have a government or at least a minister who, in relation to my knowledge, is moving in the direction of rational and thoughtful solutions, but which unfortunately is based on a parliamentary majority composed by the electorate and which cannot be called either deliberate or rational. That is why we must work in this field. And there's a choice, and there's Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh as party leader made a choice and said that it should be the policy of pure hands; if you can't get it all, you won't have half of it at all. There we in the Danish People's Party have had a slightly more pragmatic approach and said that we want to get in and help to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115153	Daily, the media are flowing over with the consequences of the climate crisis: unruly forest fires in Australia with begging koala bears asking for water from passersby; a winter that never really turned winter, where the snow was replaced by rain. These are events that should only happen once in a while, coincidences, something unusual, but suddenly they have become the norm. The worst thing is that the examples could go on. These are climate change. This is the climate crisis. Unfortunately, the climate policy statement underlines that it is still going the wrong way. The world's emissions are rising, and we look back on the last 4 years in Denmark, it is also not uplifting. The emissions have been rising or stagnant, and the emissions for 2018 were, in fact, recently made up of energy statistics, and subsequently Aarhus University has delivered their preliminary inventory. Danish emissions increased in 2018. So climate action is needed. When we talk about the climate crisis, I actually understand that people are losing their breath. Some youths are discouraged and call for action. A new type of disease has emerged: climate anxiety. It is a fear that no matter what you do, the problem is getting bigger and bigger and it is difficult to act alone in a climate crisis that is so great. On the one hand, we are discussing the solutions to the climate crisis, and they are, of course, and we must be honest about that, because some are often filled with everything they have to give up. So on the other hand we also have a lot of people who fear that they should give up the good life, that they should wave goodbye to the holiday in winter or summer, that they should say goodbye to the red steaks they really like. It seems to me that it is time for us to talk about how we can replace everything that pushes the planet with something that is climate-friendly; that we talk about how we bring Denmark forward to a green society with good life. First of all, the management of the climate crisis for me is about ensuring security for the next generations. Security is a basis for good life, because if we do not get global warming under control, young people will face a future with more conflicts and more natural disasters. Although it may be difficult to put the good life completely on the formula, because it is probably different for each of us, I think we can all agree that some of what makes us the most happy is to be with the people we love, and it is probably also to have good experiences together. So the task is basically to see if we can't make sure that you can have good experiences together in a more climate-friendly way. You can go on vacation without necessarily taking the plane, for example. By getting night trains and trains on electricity? Climate action does not need to be associated with slavery and sadness. We can move drivers into public transport so that the car cows are reduced. We can send the most polluting cars out of town and instead get electric cars so the air becomes cleaner and the noise dimmed. We can plant more woods. It is good for the climate, but we can also get more nature that we can enjoy and benefit from. We can build new exciting houses with more wood and with concrete, which is less CO2 I know that the green transition does not come with a fingertips, and of course there is bumps on the road, but if we agree on the direction, I sincerely believe that we can. The arrow points to us politicians, and we have made a climate law. The next step is climate action. For me, it is important to say that the task of creating climate action is not really just to meet a figure on a piece of paper. This is not just about 70% reduction in greenhouse gases. No, the job is to create a good and a green society. Our common climate law has moved us one step further in the discussion, because that means that we no longer need to discuss whether we can now discuss how. So thank you for that to all the parties behind the Climate Act. Thank you for a good and broadly supported Climate Law. No one can handle the climate crisis alone. Basically, I believe that it is the community that solves major crises, and the climate crisis is no exception. The Community is both large and small. It is the community in our jobs. It's our community. It's our municipalities. It is the community between companies, citizens and politicians. It is also an international community. We have seen time and time again that it is communities that are solving global problems, whether it is the United Nations, whether it is the Montreal Protocol that addressed the ozone layer, or whether it is basically the Paris Agreement, which is actually pushing the world in a direction where more ambitious climate targets need to be delivered. It also means that we must move together and tell each other that no one is standing around. We politicians have to take that responsibility on us and build the foundations of green society, but we also have to ask all Danes to join us because we are dependent on each other. Everyone has to take part in the transition. No one can do it alone. No one can escape responsibility in the climate crisis, but at the same time we must also say that it is never the individual's job to draw up an action plan for the climate crisis. It is a shared responsibility. The Danes need our will and action, both the young people who are concerned that their dreams of the future will be squeezed into climate concerns and those who care about how the bill for the climate crisis is to be distributed and whether there is a good life in the climate-friendly version. In SF we think it is important that we act now not with our head under our arm, but with an understanding of the seriousness. It is about both the big plans and the strategies, but it is also about the measures that it would be good to get started now. It could, for example, be done. We must ensure that we have charging stations for the electric cars that people are starting to buy now, so that they do not run their foreheads against the barn wall, if that is the case. It's about getting the stop blocks removed in the municipalities, where you want green district heating out, but where an economic calculation of the former world spans legs. It is also a question of dare to say that the climate crisis costs money, that the green transition costs money, and here we believe that a passenger tax on a flight can deliver a billion contributions. If we do not start acting and if we do not dare to talk about our hopes and belief in a climate-friendly society, then I am afraid that it will be too easy to lose heart and allow the concerns to take their place, and that is why we need climate action now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115932	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131115939	Thank you for that and thank you for an excellent speech by the rapporteur. I took note of the fact that Mrs Signe Munk says that the green transition does not have to be bad, I think the expression was. We're both from West Jutland, so we can say that. The rapporteur then proposes that more people should take the train instead of the plane. Well, if you want to go on a weekend trip to Paris, you need 12 hours on a train instead of 2 hours on a plane. That's making things harder. I would actually just like to have an admission that the path that SF is taking and suggesting we have to take is to make things more difficult if it is to be more expensive, take longer and be more difficult to travel from A to B or eat certain foods, or what do I know? There must be a realization of that. As Denmark is to be a green forerunner country we all agree on that, it must be based on the fact that we can inspire other countries, even outside the European Union. Does the rapporteur think that there are people in less prosperous countries who will be inspired by the fact that flying should be more expensive and more difficult and that some trains should be taken instead and twice as long to travel back and forth? Isn't it just to make things harder and not inspire in the great wide world?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120048	There are several answers to that question. First of all, it must be said that you point out the important task that SF actually takes on, both in Denmark and in Europe. And it is first and foremost to speed up the train network; we work both for a train fund in Denmark and a European railway fund. Then we also work for night train connections to be restored in Denmark. That is quite right, and that is actually what I am saying in my speech: we, as politicians, must set the foundations of the green society. This means that we must make the train journey more delicious and comfortable. At the same time, I also think it is quite reasonable that, when Denmark is now the country in northern Europe which has no tax on, for example, a tax on. a flight, then honestly and honestly say that we can take some money from there and spend on, for example. to make the train journey cheaper across Denmark. So in this way, we have to build a green society and make the train journey easier and better, because in the future it will be nice to take the train. Having said that, I would also like to say that you can see, for example, that. In the summer, more and more people buy interrail trips. So there are also some people who think that this form of travel is lovely even today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120202	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120204	It is wonderful for those who take a fucking year and want to travel Europe on a train, but that is not what is going to ensure the green transition. But let's just play with the example and say that we are implementing SF's policy: It's gonna be more expensive to fly the Danes so that it won't make them fly less, but it's gonna be more expensive to fly the DSB seat covers, and they drive a little more often. What if the Danes voluntarily do not choose to take the train more often than they take the plane? What will the SF do then? Should taxes be increased even more? Should we force them or should we regulate ourselves to do so? So, what do you do in the SF if it is the case that citizens do not respond to the incentives you put up politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120240	One could also reverse the question of whether I may pray. For the problem in the premise that I see the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance putting into it is that we should just drive on, business as usual, and that we should keep it artificially cheap to fly and not invest in rail transport. After all, the problem is for us to see that we have not invested enough in travel alternatives and that by freeing flights from a number of energy taxes and VAT, it has made it significantly more attractive to fly than to take the train. So it is basically about putting investment into better and greener alternatives, and I think that is actually the political responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120317	The next question is Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120320	Thank you to the rapporteur. I love the passion for the community, which one can probably call the market. However, I would like to turn to SF's imagination, the level of abstraction in SF when you sit and think about transport and mobility, because the rapporteur himself used the term business as usual. Aren't you a little afraid that you're kind of locked up in a world where we just call cars black, took green and plane some shit, sorry, something really bad? Where is the imagination in SF, when you are thinking about the transport systems of the future, in that we could have cars that drive in a caravan, where they emit very, very little and of course are based on electricity or hydrogen, where aircraft fly on biofuels and thus do not pollute, and where the construction of railways may have proved so straining to the climate that it is perhaps a bad idea in the big climate accounting?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120417	I can assure you, sir. Tommy Ahlers says the imagination is actually pretty big. I think it is very relevant to take the big discussion on transport so that it is not just a discussion about aircraft or trains. First of all, I think it is very clear to hear, when you listen to experts, that the way forward for passenger transport is electrification. The market has chosen to drop battery prices and cars are being pumped from the big companies in the years to come. I think that is exactly the right way for passenger transport. In connection with the research reserve, which I was part of the negotiations on, the SF was at the same time • and I think that was confirmed in the negotiating room • some of those who were most concerned that we had put money into the development of new green propellants. It is therefore both electro-fuels and other solutions for heavy transport, because you are absolutely right that we also need to make the aircraft fly more sustainably. In addition, I certainly find it exciting to discuss all the other solutions that may be, but it takes too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120519	It's gonna be in the next round. There is one more round, but I must remind both the rapporteur and ask not to use direct speech. Tommy Ahlers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120528	Thank you, Mr President. Follow-up I will ask: How much CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120543	The honest answer that I have also given is that we cannot say for sure what the effect of introducing an airline tax would be on behaviour. We can see in Sweden and it is their model that we will transfer to a Danish context that it has had the behavior effect that domestic flights have fallen somewhat. In our calculation of revenue we have to be sure that the money we want comes out of it, including a behavior effect of 10% to 15%, but that is not what we are building the proposal on. We have quite frankly said that what this is all about is actually using this passenger tax to have money for the green transition. That is, for example, the case. to make the train ticket across Denmark cheaper, it is to set up more charging stations for electric cars, and it can be many other initiatives. Because you also have to answer where the money is to come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left, who has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120647	I would like to ask the rapporteur how the SF feels about the fact that people are comfortable. I think that man is a little lazy, and some of the proposals made by Mrs Signe Munk do not seem to me to meet the lazy person or the luxuriant person or meet what is called Convenience. How do you estimate that we are comfortable in terms of choosing solutions? In the Left we have the approach that if we can make some solutions that meet the ease, the convenience, we believe that that is what will move.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120732	It seems to me that what we need are solutions that talk into the climate crisis we are facing. I believe that man is a subtle size, because it is both comfortable and adaptable. We can see that when there are more Danes, for example. start eating plant-based or buy new alternatives to the red steak not all the time, just once in a while. The Danes are aware of their consumption and are ready to change. The history of the world is filled with examples that we can change. So basically, I believe that man is both comfortable and adaptable. But electric cars are a good example, because where you and I live, we can still drive around and get from A to B, but in the future we can do that in an electric car rather than in our diesel car.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120817	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120821	Exactly the aspect that we can switch to an electric car makes our Convenience still okay. Exactly eating a plant-based steak doesn't ruin our convenience. So in this way I think that some of the solutions that are being proposed, where it is becoming more time-consuming, more difficult, to be a citizen, will be harder to sell to citizens than some of the other things that make it just as comfortable and as easy. I think that is a part of it, and that is why I think it is important that we find the comfortable solutions that are also green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120902	I firmly believe that we must find the green solutions. I just do not believe in such a discussion here, where we are not talking about a concrete example, that the rapporteur and I can disagree on one thing and the other. But what is important is, of course, that we, and this is actually what my speech is about, dare to lead the Danes into the green society and dare to show the creativity and the proposals we believe can help us reach the 70%. And some of them will be difficult, but then we have to make the best suggestions we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120935	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF, there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131120948	Thank you for the floor. The other day I experienced something mysterious. I was out for a walk, the weather was pretty clear opposite to the normal gray January weather, but all of a sudden I stopped in the middle of the sidewalk, because there was something that puzzled me so much. Right in front of me the cherry trees had sprung out; probably many of you others have noticed that. It's usually one of the things I love most about the spring... the pink cherry trees that jump out... but I got really sad because it's not spring. It was very early, in January, that I went out for this walk, and it shows that the temperature is rising. In fact, today we are on the last day of the warmest January in the history of Denmark, and it is the beginning of a new decade which will be completely defining for the rage of climate. We have seen it in recent years, because climate change is not something that just comes in a distant future, they are already there: fires in Australia, in Amazonia and in Russia; that wet, hot winter weather and hugely dry summers. But if we don't get started acting fast, it's just the tip of the iceberg. If we do not act, the consequences for the generations after us will become completely incalculable. Millions of climate refugees, rising seas, droughts, and floods will simply become everyday life. The challenge we face is unlike anything we have ever experienced, and the longer we wait, the harder it will be. That is why we must act now and not tomorrow. It therefore makes me proud that we have actually received such a broad climate law in Denmark, which obliges Denmark to reduce by 70%. in 2030, and that these are not just fictitious reductions, reductions in an excelark, but real national reductions. We must also contribute. And it is good enough after so many years, 4 years, with coal-black politics, where CO2 is now actually a broad majority showing ambition. That is why we must also get started, and I understand that the climate trade plans must be a great puzzle which also takes its time for a government, but I believe that there are plenty of things we could do now and on which there is also a great deal of agreement. I mean, I think we should have a flight tax, and so are many others in this House who feel that way. I believe that the largest companies that emit so much and at the same time receive free CO2 We must also have done something about the biomass • a problem that I think everyone has realized is really big. And, of course, I also believe that we must put an end to new oil hunting. So let's get started. It is possible to reduce Denmark's climate impact so much that we create a society where we do not emit more CO2 For me and for Enhedslisten it is also the goal that we should do so without those who have the smallest incomes being the ones who have to pay the bill. That's our vision. Therefore, the answer to this is not just to leave it all to green growth on the free market either. We must ensure a green transition where it is possible to still live a good and safe life both in the city and in the countryside, and where people whose jobs and lives feel threatened by the green transition also have the opportunity to get some of the new green jobs that we are getting created. In short, we must create a society that lives 100% within the limits of the planet. But we also have to face up to the fact that reductions in this scale are not necessarily free. It's gonna cost me something, and it's gonna make me feel like it's gonna affect everyone in our society. Everyone will feel the changes one way or another. We shouldn't tell the people that this is just business as usual. This requires that we pledge in groups that everyone is involved and, in particular, that the big polluters are the ones who actually take the lead. I look forward to negotiating a climate action plan with the government and all of you. I really look forward to getting started, especially after years when emissions have just increased, increased and increased. In the near future, we will have to set a milestone for 2025, and I would really like to appeal to the government and a majority here in the Danish Parliament to actually listen to the recommendations of the Climate Council, which are the experts we have set to look at how much we need to reduce, even in the short term. Finally, I would like to say that it is fantastic to have such a strong target of 70%. In 2030, however, can we not agree that if we are to succeed, then those who have the most and the most are going to pay the most for the green conversion? Should we not respond to the Danes who take the lead in the green switch-over as waste sorting, wearing recycled clothes, bicycles and maybe opting out of the plane? It would be an insult to them if we did not also say that it is the big executives who have to pay the bill; otherwise I think we are making fools of people. I also hear some politicians sometimes say that technology magically comes and solves everything like magic. This is just too important for you to go around believing in miracles. It is time to realise that no one is coming to fix this for us; it is our responsibility, and this is the time to deliver. In the Enhedslisten we look forward to contributing to the work on the Climate Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121618	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a desire for short remarks, first to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121623	Thank you, President. It was especially the fascination of cherry trees that just caught my attention. Can the rapporteur mention what a cherry tree she has seen flourishing? For I remember that especially the species called Prunus subhirtella Autumnalis actually has the characteristic that it blooms as long as it is hot in the air, i.e. it is not necessarily such a particular climate phenomenon. I remember that especially out at Bispebjerg Cemetery there is a whole avenue with them, where the gardener some time ago I read in Kristeligt Dagblad was out explaining that it is one of nature's beautiful wonders. Therefore, it would just be nice to hear what a cherry tree the rapporteur has seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121705	Unfortunately, I must be guilty of the rapporteur's reply. But I would say that it was in the northwest on the way to Bispebjerg Cemetery, so it may be that some of the same ones I think are Japanese cherry trees as they are. But it's symptomatic that the temperature is rising. I heard on the radio this morning that the temperature has increased considerably compared to the average over the past many years, and that is precisely why a cherry tree opens up in the most magical way. It's just a little depressing that it might be due to climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121745	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121746	I very much agree with that. But I also believe that the rapporteur will agree with me that it is important that we keep our tongues straight in our mouths, that is to say, when we now have cherry trees that simply have in their name the Latin word autumnalis, which I also assume the rapporteur, with his knowledge of English, will be able to decipher • autumn • then take care just to use the first and best experience we have on the bike in reality to say: it is also climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121815	Now, in fact, I read the reporter, who told in a DR article on the other day how temperatures are rising, also in January, and that this has led to various natural phenomena such as: cherry trees that bloom. So it is very possible that the cherry trees at Bispebjerg Cemetery do not bloom now, and I fully agree that we should keep our tongues straight in our mouths and listen to science, and science is indeed also the one that points to really great challenges, including in Denmark, and I think that is worth remembering. For sometimes we talk about climate change, as if only some people are going to influence far away from Denmark, and that is not the case. It is also in Denmark that we are going to see differences in wind and weather and water rise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121905	The next question is Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121908	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. I would like to continue the discussion we had when I was in the Chair that there are some large companies that are polluting a great deal, and we have this discussion here about whether the polluter should not pay. What do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think about the danger that, if we impose taxes in some areas of Danish industry too quickly, it will only end up with production moving abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131121941	The purpose of our transformation in Denmark must of course not be just to export CO2 It is absolutely clear to us in the Enhedslisten. But I also believe that the carbon leakage lists that have been made right now simply do not show how much will actually be leaked to the rest of the world if the 42 companies that are currently exempt from CO2 are imposed on companies which, for many, have a large surplus and which I think should be able to contribute to the green solutions. What we have then proposed in the Enhedslisten, in order to prevent a complete leakage effect, is to ensure that the revenue coming from such a tax burden on those companies goes to those companies which then reduce their emissions. I know that many of the big companies also have plans to reduce, and then they would get some of the revenue back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122041	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122042	I agree that this may be some interesting principles to look at, but if all the money comes back to the same, it may not have the behavior-regulating effect that we would like to get out of it. However, I just have a clarification question and I am glad that the rapporteur says so clearly that this must not happen. Can the rapporteur confirm that if we have a choice to say that we are doing something that imposes something on Danish industry, and that will certainly lead to that factory closing down, so that it does not pollute Denmark any more, but that it will undoubtedly just resurrect or move production to Germany or further away, will the Enhedslisten not be a part of it, and then they will also hold their hands under those companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122122	As I know, there are no studies showing that if you imposed a CO2 on the Danish companies I think it is fair enough to expect a certain leakage effect when we impose requirements on agriculture or to companies, but of course we should not just export our CO2 That is clear of course. That is why we must bear it in mind, even when we are making green policies. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122150	The next question is Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122154	Thank you for the floor. It was an interesting rapporteur's speech which, however, makes me a little bit worried about the way Enhedslisten wants to use technology. That is why I have to ask: is it the intention to look at technology as something that does not necessarily work for a better climate agenda? I mean, now I think we are investing a great deal of billions in, for example. ITER project in the EU. Should you stop doing that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122236	In fact, I do not understand why my speech led the rapporteur to doubt our faith or hope in technology. I believe that we must put a great deal of money into Danish research and technology development, because it is certainly going to contribute positively to the green transition. In relation to particularly heavy transport, I have very high hopes for technology development, but I am really afraid that there are politicians, including in Denmark, who have so much faith in technology that you just want to push the challenge ahead and say: then we don't really do anything. After all, the previous government made it cheaper to drive in the large and highly emitting cars in the hope that one day you would have a technology development that just said sparto, and I dare not hope so. This challenge is so serious that we don't just have to cross our fingers so that technology just solves it; we also have to do it now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122336	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122338	In fact, I do not think that I am seeing any politicians just saying: well, we are closing our eyes in this context. In fact, I think there are quite a number of politicians who also say the opposite. In the Left, for example, we say: fossil-free cars instead of such headless thinking about electric cars. We believe that electric cars are, of course, a very large part of the solution, but fossil-free cars, for example. Just as important. And that is part of the development we may be looking at. However, I am reassured by the rapporteur's assurances that Enhedslisten is also in favour of using technology to move forward in the climate agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122420	I believe that hydrogen and electro-fuels will play a huge role in the transport sector, both in one way and another. So I hope this is something we can bet on more in Denmark. Right now, that sector is crying out that we are actually making real demands on some sectors that will make sense to make bigger and bigger initiatives. And I certainly think that is something we should bet on. But it is still important for me to point out that we must act now and here and not just hope for quickfixes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122455	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131122504	Thank you for that, President. I have been very much looking forward to the debate here today, and I have, because this is really the first time that we have come together in this forum for such a kind of debate, after we had what could rightly be called a climate choice, as Mrs Ida Auken did a little earlier in this debate. And you just have to say that the vast majority of the parties at Christiansborg have moved on this agenda... that has been done by the vast majority of the parties. So we can easily use the gunpowder to beat each other on top of the head and ask who has moved the most, but it is indisputable that we have all moved to some extent. For me and for my party, the climate issue has always been very important, and I would like to start by trying to dwell on this a little bit, and I will try to take such an ideological approach. Because one can say that we Conservatives often talk about what we call the generation contract, and it is not because we have a patent on that concept, but it was nevertheless a conservative thinker who defined it in the first place. This generational contract is the bond of responsibility that runs between generations; which runs from my grandmother, Mette, whom I am named after, on to me and on to my daughter and her generation. It is not just a link between generations; it is a social contract in which we as people commit ourselves to the fact that the world we pass on to the next generation is in at least as good a condition as when it was passed on to us. But it is also a contract that we, as politicians, must live up to and where we have a responsibility to make long-term decisions. I mean, there's this a little faint-hearted expression that politicians think about the next elections and statesmen think about the next generation, but nevertheless that's what we have to do in relation to climate policy. It is a question of ignoring those little short-term needs that we may sometimes have, because there is a concern for the Community that is given greater weight. And that's actually what's kind of a balancing act, also as conservative, that's this balancing act between the consideration of the individual and the community and how to make that weighting. And it has to be said that in relation to the challenge and the time we are facing, there is a need to weigh up the concern for the community, but it is also important that it is done in a way without locking the individual. We Conservatives also believe in this change in order to preserve, and that does not mean that we are afraid of all social changes. We may have such a natural scepticism about it, but we are not afraid of it. But what is just important is that when we change our society, it must be done in a way that we hold onto what is valuable. And I think that is actually quite important to think about, even in the time we are in right now, with climate change that needs to be dealt with. It can be said that if we do not act in time and take the decisions that need to be taken now, then we are making it necessary for future generations to use even more drastic means. It could be that they would no longer be able to fly or any other thing that would really restrict their freedom. We do not want that; we want a change in society in a controllable way. Then we also have to say that some of the climate change that is expected will really change Denmark. We have about 7,500 km of coastline • we are in many ways a exposed country. There is no doubt that action is now needed. On the day of October, when my daughter was born, we bought all the newspapers because we thought they were fun to have at some time when she had grown up, and on the cover of Information that day it was in a headline: These are the most important years in human history. That's what it said on the cover of the paper the day my daughter was born. And it was a direct quote from a UN climate report that had arrived, pointing out that there really was a need to increase the pace of the green transition if that was the way to achieve it. It pointed out that if we were to achieve the two-degree target worldwide, the effort would have to be more than tripled; if we were to achieve the 1.5-degree target, it would have to be fivefold. Those are the facts that scream for action. One thing is that you feel responsibility as a politician, but you also feel responsibility as a parent in such a situation. We can see that we can risk hitting the 1.5 degrees somewhere between 2030-2050, depending on whether these different climate tipping points are triggered or not. I saw some figures from the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, which showed that if we did our CO2 these are pretty wild numbers. These are particularly quite wild figures, because I think we have Well, I do not buy into this rhetoric that we have done nothing at all, because I really respect large generations of politicians before my time, who have made major decisions and who have acted. I have some of them that I am proud of in my own party, for example. Connie Hedegaard and Per Stig Møller, but I also recognise that there are many in other parties who have acted and taken action. We have come a long way in adjusting our energy system. We would not have come here if they had not taken those decisions, but we must also recognise that the figures clearly say that that is not enough and that more is needed. That's why it's also insanely important that we start by making this climate law. It was important because we did it together. There has been far too much trench warfare in this area for too many years, and some of it is still in the air, but it is so important that we put it aside if action is to be taken. It was also important that it became so broad an agreement because it shows that there is now a broad recognition of the use of national climate targets. The Conservative People's Party was the only bourgeois party to be included in the Climate Act in 2014, and we were, because we recognised the use of national climate targets as an instrument, that it had a meaning, a value. Other parties have been more sceptical about this, but there is broad recognition and support for it, and this is an extremely important first step. It is also important that we have a system of partial targets towards the long-term objectives, that we have a principle of real reductions formulated. When I talk about real reductions, it is both a reference to the fact that we should not reduce by making use of the purchase of quotas, the cancellation of quotas, but also real reductions in relation to the fact that it makes no sense that we should reduce a whole lot and make life miserable for Danish agriculture if production then simply moves out of the country. It is climate change that we must fight against Danish agriculture. We will not be a better world if similar production occurs in Germany or elsewhere. So when these are real reductions, it is both a question of quotas, but it is also a question of leakage. Then we put in some important basic principles, which I think are good guidelines for all of us in the work we are going to do and which show that we have a broad recognition that if we stand on the last day towards 2030 and can see that we are having difficulty achieving our objectives, we will not achieve them by closing Aalborg Portland or doing other similarly drastic measures. That's not the way we're going. Although I say that I would like to get rid of the trench war in the green area, one must also recognise quite basically that there are different political approaches to this. I sometimes say that you can be green without being red, and that's because there's such a bit of a patent in this policy area, and you have to admit that we have different approaches to it. Basically, I do not believe that we need to stop the growth of our society in order to combat climate change. On the contrary, I believe that growth is a prerequisite for us to be able to produce the technology, the knowledge, but also the surplus needed to combat climate change. But we should not be square in the sense that it should not be a growth based on such a use and throw away culture. It should not be based on producing things that have a shelf life of a maximum of 3 years, so that the manufacturer can then sell us something new. Of course, it must be a responsible growth. In the Conservative People's Party, we are preparing the negotiations we will hopefully be invited to at some point with the Minister, and we are trying to formulate some of our proposals on what is needed in the transport sector, in agriculture, in construction, in industry and on what individual citizens can do. Frankly, it's a really hard job. Although we have taken inspiration from many organisations and asked them to dress us, it is a really difficult work, and it is certainly a work that has reminded me of how important it was that we were written in connection with the Climate Act, that this media catalogue should be made, because this media catalogue should help us politicians when we choose the tools we think we need to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Then we can have different considerations. For some, equality in society is the most important consideration to be taken into account. For others, it is that our business community needs to be developed and not phased out, but nevertheless we need to have pragmatism in relation to our principles, which also ensures that action is taken behind words and that we achieve objectives. I look forward very, very much to the negotiations that are about to begin. I really hope that we can throw the trench war aside and just agree to try to find some solutions, but it also requires that some meetings be invited, and that also requires that some coffee be brewed. I don't actually drink coffee myself, so it's a completely hopeless metaphor I've used today, but that's why I still want to be invited to coffee very, very much. It's actually the only time in my life that I've wanted to be invited to coffee, even if I don't drink it at all, but if there's a Cola Zero in the room, I'm happy too, but we look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131123457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131123509	Thank you. It is, of course, such a rather funny debate today, because it is, as in the meantime, the time between the old system and the new system that we are going to have to start with, and which hopefully will also mean that much more substance will actually come, so in fact it is other than the climate minister who is sitting on the ministerial ranks, because this will have such far-reaching consequences. I think that virtually all the ministerial seats will be filled when we have these debates. Something amazing has happened this past year. So, one thing is that the climate crisis is real, but another is that it has also become a reality in Danish politics. And I think that's the first time you can say, "Super." Now all we have to do is ensure that the reality that has dawned on Danish politicians is also translated into action. After all, the hope that was spoken of in the speech by the rapporteur of the Left only comes through action. Well, hope isn't just something you talk about; it's something you can trade yourself to have. I think that's so important that we realize that. It is also important that we realise that we have quite a responsibility here in Denmark for the climate crisis that exists. It is not only ours, but our part of the world has a historical responsibility for the climate crisis, and we must take that on board, and we must also take on board the actions that are needed. This minimum 70-percent reduction of greenhouse gases by 2030 or our latest 2050 target must be anything other than target • it must really be a task. And that's what we're gonna have to negotiate with the climate minister. I think he's had enough hints that we'd like to see that invitation soon, so I'm sure he's going home right away and looking at it, or that the Secretary-General is already clearing the calendar so we can get started, because there's been enough demand for it. What I think is important to highlight when we talk about action plans and the actions that need to be taken is that it does not go and become individual actions and that it does not become silos. Now we do a little over here, and then we do a little over there. It should not be a matter of setting up a little more wind turbines here and switching out to a lot of electric cars, but we should actually see it as a real change in society that we are about to embark on. I think the Conservative rapporteur said it so beautifully, that is, with this balance between the joint action and, of course, our freedom and desire to create our own lives. But it is not small adjustments in taxes or little investments in wind that are needed; it is real change. How do we move from a society where we measure ourselves and each other very much in terms of economy and consumption, to a society where we have to replace something else? This does not mean that the economy must die or that the economy must be completely abolished, but it is some other values that need to be brought in and that need to be done. And what I think is going to be exciting in the negotiations we are going to start is how we can take some steps towards that change in society. I believe that this requires that we also dare to embark on the big master plan and that we actually dare to think big and think long and that we not only look at the action tomorrow, but also constantly have the long light on and actually start drawing the lines for the society we want to create together. How are we supposed to live when we replace some values with some others? I think we should keep the long and short light on that. Something that also fills a lot in the debate here has especially filled something, because several parties have started to move on to that agenda with a green tax reform. It's really nice, especially when you've been sighing for it for a long time and have presented models for it, so it's great. But it's touching all of this with funding for what we're about to do. And, as we see it, there are various parts of the funding that we need to look at. One part is that we need to make very, very large investments, and there we have put forward some ideas, which have also been included in the Finance Act, about green bonds. It is a financing of some investments that we are making now and here. Then there is the part about that there is something that must be constantly financed through taxes and levies. But then there is the whole block, which is actually the hard one and which is about that when we create the change and we have now made the change of behavior... there is a lot of money that disappears out of the treasury. How do we make a new system for that? For example, it's gasoline and diesel. We can sit and talk about the electric cars, but what do we do with the money that disappears with that system? Then we must create another system and dare to do so. Fortunately, there are many good models, such as road pricing, where we can also regulate where you drive in the country, where you need a car and where it is just nice to have, and then you have to pay a little more. So we look forward to doing so very much. We are also looking forward to taking the steps that the public authorities can take. After all, over the past 41⁄2 years we have presented a number of different proposals for public procurement, in other words, how it can be used much more effectively. I hope we will touch that too. Now I asked Mr. Tommy Ahlers on the fashion and textile industry. One of the proposals we have had in this Chamber is, among other things, that of the Commission. on public procurement of textiles and how we could help the industry further by actually imposing requirements on public procurement in this area. I think we should get started on that. I will then have to mention the North Sea as well when we stand here. I know that there is all sorts of talk about the fact that we are in the big investigation, but I think that through the pile of questions we have been asking over many years and which have been very real I know that I've tired a single official or two over at the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply have been shown that the economy of this is as uncertain as it can possibly be. We know that the climate effect will be great by starting to stop this and we must take it seriously. It is not just about the eighth round of invitations to tender; it is also about the seventh round of invitations to tender, and it is about the fact that some agreements have been made. Again: I do not want to hit anyone in the head, and I fully recognise that we are becoming wiser and changing political positions, but a North Sea agreement was made which has consequences and that is what we need to remedy. One thing is to stop for the eighth round of invitations to tender. I hope the Minister will be ready for that soon, otherwise we can also drink coffee over the chat, but something else is that we also look at the production we have, because the seventh round of invitations to tender runs into the 2050s, where we have to be climate neutral, etc. So let's have the courage to discuss this and not hide and just postpone it. That's hard talk. Social change is difficult, but it can also be really, really exciting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124218	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, a comment from Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124224	Thank you very much for a very, very fine speech. I think it is so nice that there are more who dare stand on the platform of the Folketing and say that this simply requires fundamental changes. We're in a climate crisis so big that we can't just run business as usual. This growth thought, which has roared out there over the past many, many years, and which has caused parts of the climate crisis, dares to stand on the platform and speak against it, and I think that is what is needed. I would just like to use the opportunity, with this brief remark, to highlight how important it is to have the alternative at the negotiating table as well. I am quite convinced that if we had not been united in these climate legislation negotiations, then there would not have been such a good climate law, and especially not a citizen's thing, which was really something the Alternative fought so hard for. So I would actually just like to take the opportunity on behalf of the Enhedslisten to emphasise how nice that cooperation is and how important it is to the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124331	Well, thank you for those words. It is a good thing that Mrs Mai Villadsen could mention the citizen thing, because I completely forgot to mention that. I had so many notes in my papers, so it is sometimes when you haven't just written a definite speech. So it was good to mention it. So this growth agenda is important. I think that the discussion that is going on right now, including among economists, is actually interesting, not really zero growth or minus growth, but just independence from growth. How do we create an economic system that is independent of growth? I really find that interesting to follow, and that is one of the things that I spend hours at night where you can lie and read to read about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124410	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124411	Now that there is a professional in textiles on the platform, I would just like to use the opportunity to ask a little bit about something and get a little smarter, because there is fashion week again, again, again, in Denmark. Mature has almost more seasons than nature gradually. Fashion week's a lot. I come from a family where my grandmother and grandmother were Syrians, but all that has moved out, so our emissions from textiles come from other countries. What does the rapporteur think could be done in Denmark to reduce these emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124447	You can and must do a lot of things. Taxes are a good place to start because it will regulate prices. So it can be said that a great deal of textile and clothing has become far too cheap compared to the impression it has on both humans and the planet. In other words, we need to change consumer habits again. Some studies have been carried out in England, I heard a program about how much you used clothes from buying it until you threw it out, and that was on average six times. It's just that it's too cheap. We need to regulate our consumer habits, but it is also a question of setting up rules. the ban on throwing out production. Because there have been so many seasons, one produces so much that very much never reaches the customer, the consumer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124534	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mrs Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124538	Thank you for a good speech from the rapporteur. There is no doubt, I think, among us who know the alternative well that it is a talk about the high climate ambitions that have been held several times. So thank you for the persistence with regard to also occasionally both pushing and pushing forward. I know that in the alternative they are also immensely concerned about the role Denmark plays in the world. Sometimes I think that the discussion we have about the Climate Act may well be a little introverted, because we are so preoccupied with these 70%. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur what role he thinks Denmark has in the world, both in relation to the green transition and in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, but also in relation to taking responsibility for some of the consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124627	I totally agree. This is so important a step we have taken, but it is also so much introverted only to sit and talk about the 70%, because we also have a global impression, which is huge because of our consumption and our production in Denmark. But politically, we also have a great responsibility to do much of this, especially through the European Union. It can be seen that the Paris Agreement would not have happened without the European Union. So we have to get up to it. The last thing, of course, is to help the world's poorest, the global south, massively both in terms of conversion, but also in terms of adapting to the climate crisis that is real today. This is one of the things I know we are particularly in agreement with the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radicals, namely that we really need to get up in the climate aid that we are showing to the global south.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124716	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124717	Thank you for a good answer. The last question I would just like to ask is: what role does the rapporteur envisage for the climate legislation that we hope will be able to achieve here in Denmark in the world in terms of inspiring conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124733-2	After all, I was off to COP25 in Madrid right after we had landed the agreement on the Climate Act. And when I go to these meetings, I spend a lot of time meeting parliamentarians from other countries. And what I could see is that the agreement could make a difference in relation to them, because we have put some working methods into it, namely the annual wheels we have put in. That's what they were very, very curious about. The 70%. We are already being overtaken, so that is one thing, but then there really is the annual wheel we have put in. And I think that is what we can do with the legislation we have made now. It is both to inspire others to move forward and hopefully overtake us, and then we must overtake them, and that is always the good competition, not true, but also some of the working methods we have used. It is because it is so widely based that we have been able to land something that has caused others to say: God, it actually can something and it is both from the liberal and from it, now I cannot even remember literally, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt used, red part of the Folketing and from the green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124827	The next brief remark is from Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124830	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was a very nice speech. I almost felt that we were sitting at a dinner party and the rapporteur shared his great knowledge and passion for this area. In order to follow the lead from the past, and now we have an expert in fashion, I would say that I think, perhaps more than the rapporteur has any idea, that I share the concern about the influence of the fashion industry and the relationship we have with how we wear clothes. But, frankly, I would like to learn a little more about how the rapporteur imagines that we can do this, that we can help that development if we have to do something purely politically. And it's not to be polemical, but is there a ban on how many collections you can do every year? Do we need uniforms so we all wear the same color so we don't have the challenge that we have to change every two years? Or should we have taxes so that some can afford to buy and be modern while others do not? What is the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131124928	I know the questioner is concerned about this, because I have also had talks with the questioner before he became a politician. It is really an industry where you can say that what is very difficult about it is that it is also a system that we need to change. It's a system that's accelerated. I remember that when I was a newly trained designer, the big houses had four seasons. Now you're up to 12, 30, 32 seasons around. So it is, after all, the acceleration that we have to make up for, and so there are charges that are one of the tracks. We don't have to buy so much new stuff. We need to buy less. But it is also a question of regulating so that there is no overproduction. If you ban the incineration of textiles, if you demand a circular economy in the fashion industry, the industry will have to adapt and thus adjust its system. So it is both about taxes, so consumption will be different, and then it is about regulation, a very sharp regulation of the industry. And there is something we can do at home and something we need to do at EU level. And again: the public procurement of textiles will mean something to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125027	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125028	I've never thought of the public as a place where they used much fashion, well, it fell to the ground, I can hear. The minister is, of course, well dressed, and so are all the other politicians here. But it's just to hear that because we are really talking about an international industry, which has also been noticed by some of the other rapporteurs, and we have many large Danish fashion companies, but all production is abroad: is this even possible in Denmark, or is it something we only have to tackle at EU level and perhaps at UN level?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125105	It is important to remember that when you say "fashion" you are talking about textiles and clothing, and there is actually a high consumption. Think about how much textile goes through in the hospitals. So it's actually an industry you can move on to. It is clear that it is at EU level that we need to move, but how do we move something at EU level? It is about to start pushing itself, by even starting to do some of the actions. This has been done in France, where a number of things have been done in this area, among others. prohibiting landfilling, burning, overproduction, etc. It's something you've got going on down there. We should almost move there, because when several countries start moving in a direction, it is, of course, that you move on to the EU as a whole. However, it is clear that the European Union, with 500 million citizens, will no, soon only 450 million, after 1 p.m. We can do a great deal together last night, and thus also consumers, but they must be pushed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for any further brief comments to the rapporteur. I do not see that new citizens have taken part in the negotiations, and since there is no rapporteur present in the Chamber, the next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr Liberal Alliance. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131125207	Thank you. Climate policy must be tackled objectively so that we can ensure that it is both the Danes and the climate that will be the winners in the future, preferably at the same time and preferably with a global impact. In fact, it was also with that attitude that we took part in the negotiations on a new climate law, which should set the framework for how we can reduce greenhouse gases by 70%. in relation to the 1990 discharges. Now we could not see ourselves in the final agreement. We believe that too many leg restraints have been laid in relation to achieving the objectives in a way that is smart and cost-effective and has sufficient global vision. Nevertheless, and no matter what, a climate law or not, we have a bottom-up task in speeding up the green transition. We all have. There seems to be a single party missing today that does not mean it. But don't worry about it. There, in the Liberal Alliance, we would like to contribute ideas and solutions with policy and principles, as it were. If we start at a more fundamental level overall, we believe that there are some crucial principles for the green transition. The first is to have a look at growth and employment. That is also something on which we agree in the bowl speeches. But I also believe that we must be honest and say that if we are to achieve the 70% reduction target. By 2030, it will cost some jobs and it will cost some growth and some employment in various areas. I do not think it should be claimed that everything is just a green growth adventure. It's gonna hurt. Actually, we're okay with that, too. We are actually reasonably clear about this if we commit ourselves fully to the fact that every time there is an approach to the green transition that costs jobs that cost growth and costs employment, we are making compensatory reforms that increase growth and employment elsewhere. It is one of the most important and essential principles for us. Another general principle I would like to highlight is the global outlook, which I think can be given more attention in our work on the green transition. I think we mentioned this energy partnership earlier, which the Danish Energy Agency's Center for Global Advisory has with the Chinese. If we succeed, it will reduce CO2 t CO2 that is ten times what we are talking about to reduce by 2030. And I think it must be a top priority that we focus on how with Danish investment and Danish political work we can reduce CO2 and it is more important that we reduce CO2 we need to look for that. A little along the lines of that, I think that we should have a look at this, and one might call it such a general principle that, in some cases in isolation, it may actually make sense that CO2 This can be demonstrated in cases where global emissions will be reduced overall by companies moving from less climate-friendly production abroad to more climate-friendly production in Denmark. It will get our CO2 so it is not something that should discourage us. And I would prefer that we achieve a target of 65% reduction. or 67 per cent. or 64%. 2 We must be careful that we do not lose the global view. We must be careful that the Climate Act does not end up putting our feet on the global outlook. A third general principle we may be up on the fourth • which I would like to highlight is that we should have a spanking for the penny. We need to choose the most cost-effective solutions, and it should be a guiding principle that it is an exception that one differs from choosing the solutions that are most cost-effective, including quota cancellations. If we are to try to become a little more specific about what tools we need to look at, then we have also spoken on several occasions today about the need for a green tax reform. In fact, we also opted for a green tax reform, one might say, somewhere along the way: by removing registration taxes on low-carbon cars and reducing the electricity tax and the electricity tax to the lowest possible level, compared to what the European Union allows. That alone will cost 5 billion. kr. in the Treasury, and looking at the long run, there will be no registration fee in the future, there will be no income from petrol and diesel, if we succeed in phasing out petrol and diesel cars, then it will cost a great deal of money in the Treasury. After all, we have almost a bottom-up task in making a green tax reform that pierces the treasury, I sometimes want to say. However, we will find ourselves in a situation where, if we want to promote the green by lowering taxes on what is green and ensuring that our tax system is up to date, there will be a lack of money to increase public consumption, to increase the public sector. In this respect, I think it will become clear that the choice in the future is between being green or being red. And if there is to be a green tax reform, it will be very difficult to make it red at the same time. The mere fact that lower taxes will increase inequality and make it harder to increase public consumption means that the only way out of this problem is either to overtax CO2 thereby overtaxing you again, and then to pursue a policy that is primarily symbolic and without professionalism and which may even make the green transition more expensive and slow it down. There I must say to my good red colleagues I almost want to say comrades that I think that if you want to be green in the future, socialism should be thrown into the trash; it should not be recycled. Another area we would like to look at, I have mentioned a few times today, so I won't be threshing long straws on it, and that's the cancellation of CO2 As long as there's a surplus of CO2 2 that means that when we cancel 1 t CO2 2 2 It's one of the smartest tools we can use at all, and that's to put it bluntly too stupidly that we've written off that option with the Climate Act. Then there are greater global ambitions. Following on from that with partnerships with China, we have touched on one last area that I would like to highlight and which I think is extremely important. It is that we need to invest significantly more than we are doing today in research into new technologies, and that is something we agree on in general terms. Where I believe that we may have to challenge ourselves and each other a little more in the future is that we should not be so afraid of technology that we should not refuse to research certain technological solutions. That is why we also believe that it would be sensible for us in Denmark to opt for research into nuclear-based solutions and, in particular, the new ones, in other words those under a single hat called fourth-generation nuclear reactors. It could be those with liquid salt reactors that can actually burn existing nuclear waste, for example. on Risø, so you can get rid of it and turn it into energy. The new reactors have the advantage that there is no waste problem and that they can be built on small scales. And then these old arguments against nuclear power are kind of gone. It is not certain that this will be the solution for the future, but let us now lift the ban against nuclear power. Let us ensure that EUDP research funds can also be used for nuclear energy and that we do not exclude certain technologies from the outset, but that we are open to all technologies, because the green transition is important and it must be done using technological development. Another area in relation to research and I was pleased that I could read in the climate policy statement that this is something that you are researching about is what you call Carbon Capture and Storage. So, you're researching how to capture and store CO2 I think that in the years to come we must both ensure that production and consumption are greener, but also that we have to adapt, and adaptation can of course consist of looking at how we pull CO2 Nor do I hope that in this area we are too frightened to use that technology. As it is today, it actually says that the only way to use CCS as technology, for example in the North Sea, is to extract oil and gas. Then you can store CO2 But in the empty fields where we have sucked oil and gas out, we can't store CO2 That's Danish legislation. So we can't use this technology for green purposes, we can only use it for black purposes, and that's excuse me, too, really, just too stupid. So this is a third area we can look at. However, in general terms, I would say that the green driver's shirt must not become a straitjacket, nor will it be if we ensure that we have plenty of global vision and are not climate-nationalist and navel-looking. If we ensure that we have a tax reform in which we use carrots rather than whips, and if we have openness to all kinds of technologies for climate solutions in what we are researching in the future, then I think we are facing a relatively bright future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130220	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief comments on Mr Beyer de Ryke's report. Alex Vanopslagh. The first one is from Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130230	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for a speech that, as always, got my questioning started. At least that is an ability of the rapporteur. There's a lot of things I'd like to ask, but I just want to dive into this car thing. Because if you look at the energy policy base projection and look at the various sectors, it is quite clear that one of our children of pain is the transport of CO2 and I know that for the Liberal Alliance it was an important matter, when you sat in government, to reduce the registration fee, and then when you look at the statements from Danmarks Statistik that have been made now, and what the experts say, it appears that part of the reason for the increasing CO2 2 So from the perspective that the rapporteur says in his speech that we should boost the green transition, does the rapporteur recognise that in relation to reducing emissions from Denmark this was really a very bad political decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130338	No, not necessarily in isolation, that is, it may well have been the case that people have bought more environmentally friendly cars. But the fact that car sales have increased and that therefore there may also be more cars and that better roads have arrived, and what I know does not necessarily have anything to do with the registration fee itself. But the question is: How can we secure a greener car park in the future? And as it is right now, as it is today, there is an overtaxation of cars in relation to their pollution. So when you on the left are talking about you wanting a CO2 2 When that is said, it does not mean that this is the solution we have to choose, and the Liberal Alliance would like us to move towards the total removal and phasing-out of registration fees, and that can be done by saying that this applies to low-emission cars and that in this way we ensure that in the future car park there is no registration fee, just as there are no large taxes on petrol and diesel, in that it is not something that we are going to use very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130435	But I just want to say that I'm not making this up, i.e. that the Danes have bought bigger cars. You don't have to be jyde to come to the conclusion that if you have bought a new car that is big and emits a lot of CO2 you have actually created a conversion problem right now, because you have given the Danes an incentive to buy bigger cars, which is something we are still fighting with now. And that is why I just have to ask again: although the rapporteur just came by with roads and things like that, has it not basically been a bad decision for the climate to make it economically more attractive to buy larger diesel and petrol cars because of the registration tax reduction that LA led in the last government period?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130521	Well, listen: we are firmly committed to lowering the registration fee, because there is no point in a large, secure family car being taxed at 150 per cent, previously 180 per cent, in Denmark. We are pleased that we have increased private welfare in this area, and we are proud of that. But we also recognise that in a number of areas there is a tax system in Denmark which is not up to date, in other words what needs to be in relation to a green transition. There are car taxes one of them, and the whole, what to say, the tax side in the area of energy and heat is another. There is a need for green tax reform and if it is to be done professionally with a uniform CO2 and I look forward to seeing what you choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130609	Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130614	I would also like to thank you for an enthusiastic speech. Now I have had the pleasure of conducting an election campaign in the same area as the rapporteur, so I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that it must hurt a little, because I am used to hearing the rapporteur say that the green transition must be cheap and pleasant. So I was a little surprised. Now to my real question. The rapporteur is very concerned about the global impact and about the fact that we need to pursue a climate policy that focuses on reductions in the world and that is what I share from this point of view. So I do not share the rapporteur's view that what we are doing at home is less important and that it is not so important to achieve a 70-percent target. What I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur not see a risk in not having an ambitious 70-percent target with a focus on reductions in his own country, compared to the fact that it will then be harder to achieve the 2050 target of climate neutrality that I assume the Liberal Alliance is still backing up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130715	In fact, I am quite sure that the environmental economic wise men have been out to say that achieving the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 will be more difficult by having a partial objective by 2030, so much must be achieved before. So, technically speaking, there is no indication that the 2030 objective makes it easier or, for that matter, cheaper to achieve the 2050 objective, so I find that difficult to see for myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130740	I now think that among other things. The Climate Council has demonstrated that it is quite important that we get started and that we are ambitious and do not push the hump ahead of us. Another thing I would like to ask the rapporteur is what makes the rapporteur think that nuclear power is such a very economically advantageous source of energy to get into the Danish energy system. I don't think I've seen anything that supports that thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130804	That's not what I said either. What I said was that when we are researching new technologies, we should not be afraid of technology. There we must be open to research into new nuclear solutions to help Denmark become a green forerunner, which is at the forefront of technologies that can be exported out into the world. And if we repeal the 1985 parliamentary resolution on the ban on nuclear power and open up the way for EUDP funds, research funds, to go to nuclear power, and also say that, of course, you can have test reactors and demonstration plants and the like in Denmark, then it can help us to develop technologies that can inspire the world in this area too. To implement nuclear power in the Danish energy system now and here would not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130842	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten... the Red Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130848	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur says in his speech that we on the left are making climate policy which is symbolic and without professionalism. And it almost offends me, when it is said almost in the same sentence, where the rapporteur says that quota cancellations must be used to achieve a climate target in Denmark; something that the professionalism, like the Climate Council, like the former chairman of the Climate Council, Peter Birch Sørensen, did not say is a good idea because the system is broken. So I simply do not understand how we can be accused, on the one hand, of being without professionalism and, at the same time, of using arguments which are not supported by climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131130929	There are some challenges with the quota system as it is today. There is a surplus of allowances, and it does indeed somewhere that there is actually a negative leakage rate if you use quota cancellation outside the flexibility mechanism. If you use it within the flexibility mechanism, there is a positive leak. That is to say, you reduce it by more than 1 tonne of CO2 and if you do so, you are helping to balance the quota system because you remove the surplus of quotas, and it is the surplus of quotas that is a challenge in relation to the quota system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131005	I simply do not recognise that as the way to look at it. However, I would just like to stress once again that I find it problematic that politicians in the Folketing too are so jubilant in terms of technology and in terms of growth that they will actually stay out of the agreements and say that it will work itself out, that is to say that the green transition will solve itself if we do research a little and let companies grow. It is in view of the fact that we have so many researchers who say it is urgent. The radical rapporteur said: within the next 12 years we need solutions. I simply do not understand that one has the view that one dares to trust it so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131050	I'm just looking around to see if anyone has the opinions that you claim I have. In other words, I am saying that we need action, we need a green tax reform, we need more research, yes, we need quota cancellations, and we also need investment in a number of areas in order to change the infrastructure, for example in relation to electrification of the railway, when at some point it becomes a reality, so of course there is a need for action. But when research into new technologies and, what to say, the market-based solutions are so important, it is because it can help make the green transition cheaper. And if you are to bring the whole world into the green transition, it must also to some extent be cheap and comfortable. It may well be that Denmark can inspire other European countries to choose solutions that make us less free, less prosperous, in other words poorer and give us fewer jobs, but outside Europe no one is inspired by less prosperity. And that is why it is crucial that we push for market-based solutions, for research and for what to say, tax reforms that make CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131151	Our rapporteurs on climate are, of course, some of the best we have in the Danish Parliament, but we have a rule that says that when you have the floor, you get 1 minute to practice focusing, and then we expect that in the second round you can focus on 1⁄2 minutes. I would like to encourage more of you to continue practicing that. Another rapporteur has a brief comment to make, namely Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131217	Thank you. I actually think I can stay within the moment. I would just like to ask a few questions about the rapporteur's wish about this opening up of research. I would just like to ask whether this is the case mostly from a point of view of principle, because one can easily have a fundamental approach to this or whether it has been borne out by the rapporteur's understanding that Denmark has a particular potential here, i.e. whether there are some special Danish companies for whom it would be relevant. Because I have to admit, I'm sitting back and thinking that there are other countries that have run away with this. So, does it make sense that Denmark is investing crowns in researching this now that there are other countries in the world that everything else has just dealt much more with this technology over the last few decades? So it is actually a very sincere question about whether there really is a potential for Danish research in this, because I would like to see the research we have also lead to some jobs and some growth associated with it for Denmark in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131318	I think we need to be very careful, as politicians, about imagining that we have to guess exactly what technology is going to ensure the green transition in the future. Therefore, we also need to be careful to put all eggs in one basket. What I am focusing on is removing barriers and obstacles to research into certain technologies, because I simply think it is too narrow-minded to exclude some things from the outset. Our task is, of course, to make as many research funds as possible available and to ensure that it is, as it were, intended, but from there it must be the people who are looking for it for the technologies they think are worth researching, which determine what is being researched into. In other words, we do not need to identify specific technologies in advance. So the answer to the question is that it is a more fundamental position and not that I have imagined that I am an all-knowing genius who can predict everything in the future. On the contrary, I would say that others may say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131413	Thank you for your answer. In other words, we can say that today, with the EUDP funds, we often do so, that we make different pools and say that there are some things we have an interest in which research is carried out in particular, for example. energy storage and other. In fact, I think it might be sensible enough to set a course and say that we would like to find out how we can store energy. We are not saying what technology it should be, but we are saying that this is what we want to achieve. And that's just where I have a concern about whether there really is a potential in this for Denmark. That is essentially what my concern is about, more than it is in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131443	At least we will not find out if we impose too many restrictions on research into it and on testing technologies. After all, we have a Danish company at Nørrebro, which researches new technologies in nuclear power with liquid salt reactors, and it is a pity that a company in Denmark that has global ambitions cannot benefit from Danish research funds. I think that is a pity, but we should not do anything for the sake of individual companies. But that is an example of someone wanting to come forward but having difficulty getting there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131514	Thank you very much to the honourable Member. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance, and warmly welcome to the esteemed Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131131526	Thank you very much for that. I also agree with the President that the rapporteurs here are certainly among the best Members of Parliament here in Parliament, not the only ones, but certainly among them. I really want to start somewhere else in the light of the good debate here today. I want to take you to Herning. In 1978 two young men, two friends, had an idea. They had noticed that there were several companies in the vicinity that had started producing wind turbines. One of them was such a small family-owned company, Vestjydsk Steelvarefabrik A/S. I'm sure you've heard of them later under the name of Vestas. Well, these young men had found out that there were no such effective electronic control systems in these wind turbines, so they thought: We know something about electronics, shouldn't we start our garage here and see what we can find out? 3 years later they could open a small company, KK Electronics, and today you know it well if you are interested in wind power. It's called KK Wind Solutions, they have electronics in 65%. of all the world's offshore wind turbines and KK? It stands for their initials: Kaj and Knud. And it is actually, I think, a fantastic story that shows something about what we are for a country: when someone gets a good idea and entrepreneurial people seize it, develops it, collaborates with authorities, skilled employees, the trade union movement, we actually can do something. But it's also a story about something else. It's a story that we've actually been in crisis in this country before and managed to turn them into something positive. Keep in mind that the green transition in Denmark is actually • if we are to be completely honest • probably did not start so much because of green considerations. Of course it was included, but it started first of all because we were in some oil crises in the 1970s. We found out that with car-free Sundays and a ban on illuminating shop facades at night and night and something like that probably wasn't a perfectly viable road in the future. It was probably not a future-proof strategy for our country, so we agreed with ourselves that we should have alternatives, and that is what sparked up what has become a winning adventure today. If you look at our economy and what we have been through in recent decades, then we have actually managed to become a pioneer country in Denmark. Since 1990 and up to today we have reduced our CO2 At the same time, the size of our economy has grown by 55%. Our energy consumption has fallen by 6%. So we've done a lot. I think many countries in the world will look at us and say that they would wish they had done just as much. But the challenge we have faced ourselves now is far greater. The task we have now is much harder. For what we have reduced from 1990 until today is roughly the same as what we have to reduce from today until 2030. In addition, the last part we need to reduce is in sectors where it is much harder where we do not know the means yet. 0,1% of the world's CO2 This means, of course, that some might say this immediately: Well what we do then is not so important to the climate. And it is perhaps also true that this is quite isolated in relation to precisely the actual emissions. But when we do, when we are ambitious anyway, when it makes sense that a broad majority in the Folketing has now agreed that we should reduce by 70%. In 2030 and be neutral in 2050, it's all about us being able to inspire others. It is about the fact that if we show that, as one of the world's richest countries with the happiest population, with competitiveness, with a high standard of living, we can do this in a way that does not make us poor, which does not make us more unequal and does not go beyond the standard of living, then they will look at us and say: we must do that too, we can do that too. If, on the other hand, we do it in a way that leads to more inequality that leads us to lose jobs that lead to our standard of living going down, then the whole purpose of this is, as noted in parentheses, remember that, not necessarily so much is about how many percent we reduce, but is about showing that you can go away. Because then we will be pointed at with the opposite sign and say: that is what happens if you set too high targets. Look at Denmark. It was once a country we envied, it was once a country we wanted to look like. Then they set some high climate targets, now we don't want to look like them anymore. That is why what some have called leg buckles and some have called trip threads • others have said: It is a huge mistake in the climate struggle to set up the principles you do • are so important. That is why it is so important that what we do is not going to lead to more inequality. It should not be understood so rigidly that each small measure must not somehow increase the Gini coefficient. In other words, peace is not just peace: we support companies making more money from green technology. Although, of course, if they get richer, it will mean that the Gini coefficient will actually increase. So, of course, it doesn't have to be understood as square. But it has to be understood so squarely that if it is something that significantly changes our society... the equality we have, which is one of the foundations of our welfare society... then we probably shouldn't do it that way. The second reason why the first thing to do is to inspire others so that they can reflect themselves in us is that when we push ourselves, we will also develop new technology, we can develop new solutions that the rest of the world can benefit from; sometimes because they want to copy us, sometimes because they want to buy the things we do and produce. Again wind power is a pretty good example. When we made the world's first offshore offshore offshore wind farm in the world in Denmark at Vindeby, it could supply power to a few thousand households. We just opened Horns Rev 3 last year, which can supply power to 425,000 households. Those mills are going off there 49, aren't they? And when one of the mills rotates just once, it makes enough power to charge 1,317 iPhones. When we started that development, it was not profitable. There the economists who said the Liberal Alliance people of the time, who at that time of course did not call themselves the Liberal Alliance, but who called themselves something else liberal, said: that which is not cost-effective. And they were quite right about that. But we did it anyway because we were betting that that is what we should live on in the future, and that is what we have come to live on in the future. Again, what I am saying here is not to be over-interpreted either, because that does not mean that we simply post money in the blind. Of course we'll think about it. But that means that part of the solution will also be solutions that we cannot guarantee right now will be those that will yield returns. That is also why I believe that going down that road towards nuclear power is a completely wrong path. In other words, the nuclear power stations that now stand there even those that should be the most cost-effective can't compete now with the wind at price. So we're going another way. Thank you very, very much for the very inspiring speeches that everyone around the table has made today. I started by saying that today has a somewhat gloomy background if you see what is actually happening out there with the climate. I thought that with those cherry trees, too, it was because of climate change, but then it's good that we have mr. Morten Messerschmidt. That's just another reason why it's a good thing that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has joined the climate struggle: Then we can reap some of his knowledge of botany. But the fact is that climate change has hit us and that we can see it, and that is, of course, the sad part of it. But it is extremely positive that we stand together as a country. There is plenty of room around the table for the individual parties that are not with us yet. I hope they'll come. I also understand your impatience. I can actually say quite frankly that I am glad it is there. Sir. Tommy Ahlers would like to join the war room. I do not quite know if I can promise, but I can at least promise that we expect a great deal from the Left, including in these negotiations. I believe that as great changes as we have to make in our society are best made politically wide. I believe, in fact, that this was what the electorate's clear speech to the parliamentary elections was, in other words, that we are expected to do so. So that's the starting point. Having said that, it is clear that I will say what I said before the negotiations on the Climate Act: I would very, very much like to have broad agreements. But it is clear that the fact that these must be broad agreements must not mean that the level of ambition is so low that we do not deliver what we have to do. So from this point of view, I am very much looking forward to the negotiations we will have here in the spring. We will soon be ready to present a road map on how we intend to deal with things. If you are extremely impatient, you can take the trouble here, and I know you have already done so, but now I also say so if there were others who had to sit and keep up with reading the Climate Act, which of course has not yet been adopted, but then you can read the agreement we have made. For the annual wheel, where we are now in the year 0, sketches very well how the climate policy will be conducted in Denmark in the future, but there is also something about how a climate trade plan should be arranged. There must be sectoral strategies. The agreement also states that there must be an ambitious duty of action for a government if we do not live up to not only making reductions now and here, but also drawing a path for achieving the slightly longer-term ambitions. I'll leave those words here in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132540	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132549	Thank you. Those were many words and good words, and there have been many of them. When I stand up here, even though I am not part of the committee responsible for climate change itself, it is because I have a question for the climate minister that we have used many words. We are talking a lot about the high table, if it is in the UN, at climate summits, in the Climate Ministry or in the Danish Parliament, but now something is about to happen. We all agree on that and there I have a question for the minister about how we get that knowledge from the high table to the dining table. For one of the ways in which we in Denmark have been doing things over the last 75 years is by using public education. To what extent does the Minister wish to include public education in the work of getting this knowledge from the high table to the dining table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132652	Thank you for a good question as the first one. But what I would perhaps like to say at the outset is that the first recognition should probably be that it is not only about knowledge from the high table to the dining table, but also about knowledge from the dining table to the high table. I fully agree that we can do much politically to create the right incentives for people to act more climate-friendlyly. We intend to do the same. We have, for example. now set up a work around a forest fund that comes new climate councils in relation to food etc. etc. So we're going to continue with all that. It is also clear that the research effort, of which a large part in Denmark is under the auspices of the DMI, which belongs to my ministry, will also be a priority in addition to the other research institutions which are doing very well. But the other way around may be more interesting. In other words, how can we actually ensure that we are also able to listen to the expertise of the people and, above all, what we are willing to do, what dilemmas do we want to join and try to resolve? And this is where the citizen thing comes in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132803	I can inform the Minister that the overall state of enlightenment unions has just made sustainability a theme, and therefore there is a great motivation for being involved in this work. And I would urge the Minister to think in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132820	I'm sure you've got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132825	Sir. Tommy Ahlers, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132827	Thank you, Minister. I can't wait for that invitation, but we'll have to wait for it. It may be a little technical, but it is about the funds which the Minister has also addressed a few times, and which are also in the statement, about the green future fund, where you will come with 25 billion. kr. How do you think the Minister can make sure that money really goes to create more risk in the market? Because as it is now, it does not say 25 billion. kr. in the Finance Act. There's an amount of about, I think, 100 million. kr. per years that may be lost, but the rest of the money has to be returned, because there is a development going on in those financial markets where they also say that you are starting to invest in this. We have the pension funds with the 350 billion. kr., which is also mentioned in the statement. We have BlackRock's letter, which the Minister may have seen, where the CEO tells his entire investor community that this is going to change everything. How do we ensure that the money we then bring from the state really means that the market can take greater risks that private investors may not be prepared to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131132931	Compared to the first part of that, sir. Tommy Ahlers is looking forward to getting an invitation, so can Mr. Tommy Ahlers so well consider the invitation as already sent. I just haven't written the date yet. We certainly expect the Left to be an active part of this and we look forward very much to hearing Mr. Tommy Ahlers and the Left's own ideas. It is, of course, the case that parties are free to present themselves, and several of them have, of course, done so, and we would very much like to discuss this. So we would very much like to see that from the Left. In relation to this, I think it is clear that very relevant questions about the future fund should be the purpose of such a fund, among other things. is to go in to be able to help make some of the investments that the market would not just have delivered itself, or make them, but make them earlier than the market would have delivered them, or make them perhaps at a lower return than the market would have delivered them. Well, these things obviously have to be weighed off. The precise structure for this is not yet available. Among other things, it has to be done. are agreed with the parties behind the financial law agreement, but I know from the Minister for Business that these are exactly the things he has in his deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133041	So let's jump over to this invitation, 'cause when I and the Left are so happy to come over to the meeting, who else is coming? I would like to understand that, because when you see the government making a laughing gas play, there are two ministers, both a Minister for Business and a Minister for Health. When we come to the negotiations, will the Minister for Taxation, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Economic Affairs reflect on the extent of what we are going to do, also sit at the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133107	Yes, we're going to involve the entire government widely. It is clear that this task is so great that it cannot be solved by one minister alone. This is also reflected in the Green Conversion Committee, which we have set up, where we are, after all, a whole group of ministers who are constantly working on the entire government's policy. We're screening bill for green effects. We coordinate across resort areas in order to assess the effectiveness of instruments, etc. It is clear that this is, of course, a working method which we intend to introduce into the negotiations on a climate action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133141	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank everyone for their work today. I would remind you that there is a proposal for adoption, namely V 55, made by a number of parties that were involved in the negotiations. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 4 February 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133228	If we have the people in place, the negotiations are open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133250	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes in the motion for a resolution to require the government to notify the signatory countries of the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness that Denmark will be able to withdraw citizenship even if the person concerned thereby becomes stateless. This must be done in cases where the person in question has seriously acted against Denmark's interests and security. Let me say straight away that the government shares the views of the proposers of foreign fighters. They have turned their backs on Denmark and fought with violence against democracy and against freedom. That is why the government is also working hard to tighten the course against foreign fighters. By 14 January this year, we have launched a series of initiatives, including significant tightening up of the criminal code's provisions on terrorism. However, the government cannot support this motion for a resolution. Denmark has ratified the stateless Convention in line with 75 States. In addition, five more States have signed it, but have not yet ratified it. In the EU, 21 out of the 28 countries have ratified the Convention. It follows from the stateless Convention that the declaration that a State wishes to retain the right to withdraw a nationality to statelessness must be made at the date of signature, ratification or accession. It is therefore not possible to make such a statement at a later stage. And we did not make such a declaration in 1977 in connection with Denmark's accession to the stateless Convention. Moreover, it was not possible at that time, under Danish law, to deprive citizenship of statelessness. In other words, there were no rules to maintain. In addition, it follows not only from the stateless Convention, but also from the Convention on the Rights of Nationals, which Denmark has also acceded to, that we cannot make people stateless by depriving them of their nationality in cases where, for example, they do not have the right to vote. have been foreign fighters. Finally, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides some protection both in relation to the granting and withdrawal of citizenship. The right to citizenship is not explicitly mentioned in the European Convention on Human Rights, but Article 8, among other things, protects. the right to respect for privacy, and in several cases the Court of Human Rights has found that Article 8 provides some protection in relation to both the granting and withdrawal of citizenship. It is considered that Article 8 of the Convention protects against the withdrawal of nationality in cases where the person concerned has no nationality in another country or is entitled to do so. The assessment is based on an interpretation of this Article 8 and is the practice of the Court of Human Rights. As I mentioned at the outset, the government has already sharpened its course towards foreign fighters. A number of initiatives have been launched across ministerial areas since the government's accession. On the territory of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I can mention that in October the government put forward a bill on the administrative withdrawal of the nationality of foreign warriors, provided that they did not thereby become stateless. Three people have therefore been deprived of their nationality. Two of them have now brought their decision before the court, but the decisions remain in force during the court's proceedings. In addition, a draft law has been adopted concerning, among other things: the acquisition by children of citizenship, where parents who have entered or reside illegally in certain areas of conflict cannot, as a rule, transfer their Danish citizenship to the children born in those areas unless the children would otherwise be stateless. Hopefully, this initiative will prevent some from entering those areas where there is a ban on entry and residence in the future. The Government has also intensified efforts to strengthen, together with other European countries, the possibilities of prosecuting foreign fighters locally in the region. In addition, after New Year's, the government has put forward a draft law which maintains and extends access to, inter alia: to withdraw and refuse the issue of passports to Danish nationals wishing to leave as foreign fighters. The government has already taken tough action and will continue to take hard action against foreign fighters, but we cannot support the way in which the motion for a resolution proposes to go. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to a good discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133706	You're welcome. It is already starting now, because there are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133717	Thank you for that, President. When you hear the Minister's speech here, you get the impression that there are two sets of arguments that he uses. The first thing we heard is the formalistic, i.e. the fact that a reservation for this convention should have been made at the time of its ratification. That is a formal objection. And then there is the real or material, whether the Minister will, that is, the fact that the Minister thinks it is more important that we have some international conventions than that the Danes can walk in peace on Danish streets and streets without fear of having to meet foreign fighters. Let me dwell on the first argument. Could we not avoid the formal problems by simply withdrawing Denmark from the Convention, and if there is a desire to rejoin with this reservation, then can we do so afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133815	Thank you for the question. If I am going to try to answer the question a little precisely, that is, the formal chain of reasoning, if I am going to stay in the terminology of the questioner, then yes, with the support of the Folketing, the government can withdraw from this convention. That will then happen in practice one year after we have notified it to the United Nations. But we will not be able to enter a clause afterwards. It is the general practice in the field of the convention that it is not reasonable to simply step out and then enter with a reservation. So we have to do it with an open forehead, in that we would not be part of that convention for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133858	I'm sure the Minister has more than yours. But could one imagine a situation in which Denmark simply steps out, makes it quite clear to the UN and other countries that the intention is therefore to have the same legal status as Britain and that we simply choose to make a law? So we are making a law here in the Folketing, which gives the same legal position as that of the British. Materially, it would provide the same set of rules, and then we would be beyond all the hoaxes that are apparently not possible under the UN system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131133937	If a majority in the Folketing says that it wants to withdraw from this convention, then my assessment is that then the government is obliged to take steps in this direction, at least politically committed, whether it is also legal, I should not be wise to do so. However, I would just like to point out that this convention is not just about it, because it is also about the Convention on Civil Liberties, and then it is also about the interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights, and it also has a certain significance in this area. So if you want a legal position where it is actually possible to make people stateless, then it is true that I want some quabble about it. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134012	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134014	Thank you, Minister. This is not the first time we have had this debate on statelessness, and the previous government has put forward a proposal to see whether it might be possible to amend the Statelessness Convention. Now I was not a minister myself at that time, and I am not at this time, so I do not know exactly how far one got, but it was at least the same ministry as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is now in charge. Then perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration can come a little closer to whether this is something that we are still working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134047	I remember the debate, which has been running for some years now. I have some doubts as to how far that work came, but I would very much like to look into that. In addition to the parties that were part of the then government, I think that the whole parliament would be interested in knowing how far international considerations were made about whether the conventions could be amended. I would just like to say that, from the point of view of the current government, it is certainly important that we do not withdraw from the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134117	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister has said, because the Prime Minister has said the same thing: that she is also willing to look at changing conventions that we do not agree with. So just to understand it quite clearly: will the Minister come back to us with an answer as to how far one is actually doing this work, since that is something the Minister is not aware of at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134138	Yes, that is true, it is not something I am aware of, and I would like to commit myself to doing just that, which I am sending to the parliamentary committee, so that there is clarity as to what steps were taken before the elections and how far that work came.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134153	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134157	Thank you. You can hear the Minister spend a great deal of his speaking time talking about various international obligations to both the United Nations and the European Convention on Human Rights, etc. etc. That is why my question to the Minister is actually quite simple: what does the Minister think is the most important of the freedom and security of Danish citizens, or is it the consideration of obsolete conventions made in a completely different time and for a completely different purpose? What is the Minister's priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134232	Well, all politics is a balance between different considerations. What has been our approach to this whole debate on foreign fighters is that the security of the people and the Danish state must weigh very heavily, and the political initiatives we have put forward are, of course, to take care of the security of this society. And there has been a little turbulence, a little political discussion about, for example. The administrative bill to deprive foreign fighters of their citizenship, but we have stuck to that because we thought it was the right thing to do. We have also always said that this is happening within the framework of our constitution, our rule of law and the conventions that we have signed. We stand firm on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134318	Yes, but now I think this is quite simple because it is some cases where some people have worked directly against Denmark. And there I simply have to try again to get an answer from the Minister: is it more important to nurture relations with the United Nations and the European Convention on Human Rights and everything else and take it into account instead of ensuring that these IS terrorists, for example, do not come back to Denmark? That's what this is all about. What is the highest consideration given by the Minister to the fact that the Danes can be safe in their own country, or to the consideration of conventions and IS terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134405	Well, I'd like to start by saying that this isn't about nurturing relationships on the boned floors in the fine meeting rooms. That's not what matters. But I believe that Denmark has an interest in the fact that there are fewer people who are stateless. We have, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter, and whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. And there it would not be in our interest if the other country then said: Well we consider them stateless. It is not in the interests of a welfare state, in the interests of a prosperous nation, that there should be a growing number of stateless persons in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134436	Sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134446	I actually took the floor because the Minister's reply to Mr. Marcus Knuth puzzled me. The Minister said that he was not aware of the status of the work to amend the conventions, and I am a little surprised when the Prime Minister was able to say in November that she wanted to change these conventions, that she would work for it, with direct reference to the area of foreign warriors and the problem of foreign fighters only with Danish citizenship. So I just need the minister to explain to me: is it true that the Prime Minister printed out bill without host in November, promised a lot of things to the Danish people, and then no one in the government has worked on it afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134532	But in my answer to Mr. Marcus Knuth, I referred to what the previous government, after • I think an understanding with the Danish People's Party had set in motion work in this area. I myself have been in consultation before the elections, where I could see that there was some discussion between the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr. Christian Langballe, and just that work, I simply do not dare to say how far the previous government went, nor what has been taken up by international contacts or legal clarifications or anything like that, but I would very much like to come back to the Folketing with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134612	Okay, but couldn't the Minister just explain here today what work the Minister himself has done in relation to the present Prime Minister's promise to the Danes to change these conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134625	Well, I think that what we have said, and I really believe that both the Prime Minister and I have said this myself, is that our view is that the stateless Convention and the other conventions sometimes tend to protect some others other than what was the original intention. We think this is a completely relevant political discussion to enter into, including internationally. Nor do I think it is a secret that the courts judging by it do so in a political context, and that is why it does not quite matter what we have of political discussions in the European family.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134656	Thank you, Minister. There are no more comments, so we will move on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134716	Thank you. I am as frustrated as the proposers. People who have gone down to fight for something as crazy as the Islamic State have failed Denmark and the free world, and they deserve neither our sympathy nor our help. Whether one's contribution to the Islamic State has been active in fighting against Danish soldiers, exercising social control, engaging in family relations or feeding new IS warriors, one has failed one's homeland. Therefore, the government has taken several initiatives aimed at keeping IS warriors and sympathisers out of Denmark, both together with the proposers and a number of other parties in the Folketing. Together, we have made it possible to take administratively away the citizenship of people who have dual nationality, we will no longer provide consular assistance to foreign fighters, and from tomorrow, children born in areas where entry is illegal will no longer be Danish citizens. It is the view of the Social Democrats that, as a small country in a large world, we have an interest in international rules of play. Alternatively, it will be the right of the strong to do so, and we believe that cooperation will risk losing out if we follow the proposals of the proposers. If we followed the proposal, we would find it difficult to demand that other countries take their citizens home if they had been refused asylum or committed crime in Denmark. The proposers present the proposal as a snapshot solution, but I believe that the consequences of the proposal in the real world would weaken Denmark's ability to get rid of unwanted foreigners as well as weaken Denmark's voice in the international cooperation that we are involved in. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134857	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134903	Thank you. It was just to follow up on the questioning round we had just before, and it is a good thing that the minister and the rapporteur come from the same party because there was some confusion. The Minister wanted to come back with a status at work to amend the Convention, but then it became somewhat unclear to me. I know that the previous government has been working on it and, like Mr. Mr Dahlin asked about that, I would also like to ask: has the current government done anything at all to look at the amendment of the Convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134935	Sir. Marcus Knuth is also aware that, although I share the party with the Minister, I am not in the government and I am therefore simply not aware of whether the government has been changing anything here. So it has to wait for the statement that comes from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131134954	I think it's a little thin. As we have just heard, in November the Prime Minister stood in this Chamber and said that she was willing to work to change conventions and, above all, in relation to foreign fighters. So what we are talking about here and then we cannot even get an answer as to whether the Social Democratic Party has ever done anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135015	Sir. Marcus Knuth could have asked the Minister, who has just been on the platform, and in addition, factual questions to the government are most obvious to ask partly the Minister, partly through the committee to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135025	Sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135029	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, which, by the way, I agreed with most of it. In fact, I asked the Minister about what the rapporteur was just asking for, Mr President. Marcus Knuth had asked the minister. I did not really get an answer, and then I can ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: if I were at some point to get an answer from the Minister, who is saying that the government has done nothing to live up to what the Prime Minister had in store for the Danes, to amend the stateless Convention, what would the Socialist rapporteur's reaction be to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135104	If, at some point, the answer given to the rapporteur by the Minister when he has asked a committee question or how he will do so, if he does not feel he has received sufficient answers here now, then we must talk about it. I would say that I have the impression that we have a common ambition to adjust to these conventions, which we sometimes seem a little out of date in the way they are regulated. That was one of the reasons when the Copenhagen Declaration was made under the previous government a few years ago. I have sympathy for the intentions, so I imagine we can work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135155	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'm just gonna ask sir. Rasmus Stoklund, about Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not as interested as I am in knowing what the government has done? Sir. Rasmus Stoklund does not seem to know, and that is quite fair, but shares Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not my interest in finding out whether the government has actually done anything in this area, or is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund don't give a shit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135220	It was almost a rhetorical question, because of course I fully share that interest, and that is why I look forward to seeing the reply which the Minister promised a little earlier he would send Mr. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Morten Dahlin. Of course I share your interest. I shared the interest in the work initiated by the previous government on the Copenhagen Declaration, and I think it is absolutely crucial that, because we have a voice in these international contexts, we contribute our input to where we can see that these conventions might need modernisation. So yes, I'm actually pretty confident that we share our ambitions on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135251	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135255	I will not ask the rapporteur questions relating to the executive. I am interested in what the rapporteur thinks and thinks, especially since the rapporteur, in his speech, did a little wonder how many awful things would rain down on Denmark, if we had to follow this proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. Well, the reaction from abroad would be so overwhelming that it would hardly be possible to understand the consequences, I understand. It could just be exciting to hear what the rapporteur is building on that assumption. We heard earlier from the Minister that there are about six countries in the EU circle, that is, our closest allies, who have chosen not to ratify this convention. Is that something, sir? Rasmus Stoklund has experience or knowledge of having had fatal diplomatic, economic and other political consequences for the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135349	I think that one of the main consequences that it would have for us is that I am not so worried that critical speeches may be written about us in the New York Times; that is not the kind of thing I am talking about and which could be negative, is that every time we have a rejected asylum seeker or a criminal alien whom we have problems sending back to the country of origin, we refer to their obligation to accept their own nationals in the countries in question, and if, on the other hand, we begin to make Danish nationals stateless and thus fail to deal with them in Denmark, then I think we will have difficulty lifting the argument that the countries to which we would like to send should take their nationals. What would prevent a number of countries in North Africa and the Middle East from making the people who are staying in Denmark and who we would like to send home stateless?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135447	Well, what's stopping them from doing that today? The countries to which we typically wish to send rejected or expelled foreigners are not exactly countries which are usually at the top of the international order. These are countries that are completely indifferent to all the conventions that the Minister seems to be praying for in the evening. So I simply do not understand the argument. Those countries could just remove the citizenship of all their brothers and sisters who can't figure out how to behave. But apparently they don't. What would keep them from doing that today, sir? Rasmus Stoklund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135524	But that's right. That's a problem today. You can't get around that. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right. It is quite a challenge that we cannot send back foreigners who no longer have a residence in Denmark. However, I still believe that if we start to violate the rules that we are appealing for others to observe, we will lose our weight in the arguments and our legitimacy in the arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135552	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135557	Thank you. We agree that we have come a long way when we can deprive IS terrorists of citizenship when they have dual citizenship, but we have not come all the way. What is so absurd in this whole debate is, of course, that both the rapporteur's party and, in general, the vast majority of parties here in the Danish Parliament take an open view of both the opportunities offered by the IS terrorists, but also of this cooperation with the United Nations and the European Convention on Human Rights, etc. higher. You're so afraid to step on your toes that you're actually exposing the Danes to those who have elected you into this Parliamentary danger. That is simply what I cannot understand, but it may be that the rapporteur will be more clear in his spit and say: this is what the conventions are all about. Will the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135707	No, I am not going to confirm that because that is not how it is in my world view. It is true that we have a challenge, because there are some people who should not be in Denmark and who we cannot send home, but when we expect others to comply with the international rules of the game, and we call on others to adhere to the rules of the game, I think there would be a loss of legitimacy if we stopped complying with the rules of the game and if we tried to go other ways ourselves. That is why I do not recognise the premise that this is a question of us then putting some conventions higher than the safety of the Danes. It is a question of us assessing the way to the goal differently. We assess the way to the goal in that we believe that the world, including Denmark's position, is best placed if the world is regulated with some orderly conditions than if it becomes the right of the strong, and it will be more so if there are no international rules of play.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135809	Thank you for your answer. As the rapporteur has just confirmed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, there is really no reason to assume that it will suddenly change if Denmark, for example, resigns from the stateless convention or simply decides that we are, in fact, indifferent to whether or not these IS terrorists become stateless. There is no reason to assume that these states, which today do not want to take their citizens back, should suddenly change their way of doing things because we take a stand, show courage and will to protect the Danes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135851	I think that if you go down that road, you risk some pretty serious unintended consequences. If e.g. a country in North Africa or, in particular, the Middle East, from which there are many unwanted foreigners in Denmark at the moment, was inspired by the Danish approach and made people who are staying here on an illegal basis stateless, so we would suddenly not be able to get rid of them. We're not supposed to say what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135924	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131135933	Thank you for that, President. Today, first of all, we are dealing with B 61, which is a motion for a resolution which forms part of a very topical and emotional debate, namely the debate on foreign fighters, their citizenship and where their loyalty and belonging lie. Let me start by stating that the Left's attitude towards Danish citizens who go to the Middle East to fight for the Islamic State is crystal clear: these people have turned their backs on Denmark, and their loyalty is clearly neither with the Danish people nor with the Danish society. Furthermore, Islamic State and similar terrorist gangs subscribe to a reactionary, violent and inhuman ideology. To put it as it is: Islamic State is an enemy of Danish society, and the ideology and nature of Islamic State is the opposite, antithesis, to everything we stand for here at home: democracy, human rights, freedom, men and women's equality, and therefore, on the solid basis of the rule of law and in accordance with Denmark's international commitments, we must of course do everything we can to deal with this challenge. That is why I personally was extremely pleased when the Prime Minister said about the foreign warriors in particular and now I quote: "I would always like to work to change conventions that have the wrong content. However, after today's debate, the question is simply whether I have been looking forward to it too soon, because although the Prime Minister has said a dangerous lot about foreign fighters and conventions, I think it was clear to hear from the Minister just now that neither the Prime Minister nor the Foreign Minister has done much. So now that we're talking about this topic today... foreign fighters and conventions... I'd like to encourage the government to get on the field and like a little bit more. When the Prime Minister spoke to the press, it all sounded so easy, and we should, of course, avoid the situation where it goes into the social democratic jar together with the air castles about a reception centre in a third country in Africa. Anyway, back to the motion for a resolution. I would like to point out that in the Left we share the contempt of the Danish People's Party for these Danish citizens who have signed up under the banners of the Islamic State. It is one thing, however, to take the citizenship of a foreign warrior who has dual citizenship. We would like to do so, and that is why we made the political agreement with the Danish People's Party, which the current government has made law together with the present majority in the Danish Parliament. If we do so, we will, as we know, become a stateless person, and although we in the Left want foreign fighters to go where the pepper grows, we cannot therefore vote in favour of a motion for a resolution in which we want to make Danish citizens stateless. There are two reasons why we cannot. Firstly, we believe that it is in Denmark's interest to limit statelessness in the world. If Denmark starts to make our citizens stateless, there is nothing to prevent other states from making Denmark the art after, and if different states, including some fragile states, with reference to Danish practice take citizenship from their citizens, then we can have some problems in Denmark with resident foreigners being made stateless, and then we are hanging, if I may say so, on these people. Secondly, we in the Left are in favour of a rule-based international order, and when all wisdom says that a small state like Denmark has a vital interest in maintaining rule-based international cooperation, then it is not wise to go alone and break our international agreements. So although it may seem tempting on the surface and I would like to admit even very tempting to vote in favour, the Left does not think that is the way forward or for that matter in Denmark's interest, and that is why we are voting against the proposal. However, we are doing so with a clear call to the government that they come in and deliver what the Prime Minister has promised the Danes, namely to change these conventions. Because it is obviously so easy, or at least it is easy to say in the press and promise the Danes. Now all we need is for the government to actually do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140429	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one is for Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140435	Thanks for the toast here. We've heard that a few times before. But I would actually like to ask the rapporteur about the same question I asked before. Because what the rapporteur is saying is such a lot of Christiansborg talk about when we were in government, we did this, and now there is another government. We agree that a law has now been passed which takes citizenship away from those who have dual citizenship. But that does not solve the problem. Because some of these IS terrorists are still gone, who come back to Denmark, and who expose Danes to a huge security risk. In fact, there are already some in Denmark. So I just have to ask the rapporteur: where is the Left in this? Will the Left ensure and stand firm that they are chosen by the Danes to protect Denmark precisely from such ones as for example. The IS terrorists? So does the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark, the security and security of the Danes or international conventions have the highest priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140544	Now the questioner said that I gave a Christiansborg speech, after which the questioner well delivered what can best be described as a Christiansborg question, in which you set up some premises and sort out your question in a way, so that you know that it is not possible to give a substantive answer without the questioner being able to try to expose you afterwards. I think that is a little too bad when you try to burn yourself at being an antichristian castle. But to answer the question, there is no doubt that we in the Left value the security of the Danes extremely, and that is why, when we were in government, we made some agreements that we are proud of, which help protect the Danes. And when I do something I'm proud of, I want to tell you about it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140651	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140653	It was a very, very funny dispute on a very, very concrete question, but I can really just ask again. It is, after all, an issue that is quite simple. Does the Left take the utmost care to protect the Danes and the Danes' security and security, or does the Left take the utmost account of international conventions? What is the highest priority, the security and security of the Danes or the consideration of international conventions? There's not a lot of snags in it. It is a simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140726	Thank you to the rapporteur for the follow-up question. It is still a Christiansborg question, because the premise of asking a single question must, of course, be that the grounds for the question are in order. I actually tried in my rapporteur's speech and it may well be that the questioner did not listen because the questioner thought it was a Christiansborg speech to explain why we are not voting in favour of this proposal and it was in a slightly more complicated, nuanced and elaborate way than I can get in the answers to these questions. And just briefly: There is no contradiction between advocating a rule-based international order and looking after the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140805	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140809	Thank you, President. I think that the first part of Mr. Morten Dahlin's speech was spotless. So, with regard to the whole thunder against Islamic fundamentalism and so on, I think we look at things exactly the same. What was a little too bad was, of course, the second part of the speech where Mr. Morten Dahlin sounds like a Social Democratic minister: you really want to, but it may go wrong if you do what the Danish People's Party proposes. I am a little surprised that this position has been taken, because it has not gone wrong in Britain, as I understand it. So in Britain there is certainly no debate that it might be a good idea to get fully into the Convention, so as to prevent oneself from taking the right of birth from certain groups. Well, then, sir. Morten Dahlin any empirical evidence of his claim that if we do like the British, it will have fatal consequences in terms of being able to send traitors back to the countries from which they come?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131140905	I would like to start by expressing my thanks for the praise for the first part of the speech. In fact, I really appreciate that, firstly because, if you get praise for your speech by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, as a starting point, has done something right, and secondly because I truly regard the Danish People's Party as an ally in the fight against some of the darkened snag we experience from Islamic State. When the rapporteur asks whether there is empirical evidence of what will happen if Denmark breaks the international agreements of which we are a part, I would say that there is no such thing, as I know no other country has done exactly what the Danish People's Party is proposing; for the British have not done in the same way. Now I was accused of sounding like a Social Democratic minister before, so let me refer to the Social Democratic Minister, who quite clearly explained the formal difference between the Danish and British situation. It is therefore impossible to say that there is empirical evidence for this, but there is nothing to the contrary either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141010	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141011	Yes, there is, sir. Morten Dahlin, all the time that there are quite a few of the countries to which we would like to return citizens who have not ratified this convention. In other words, there is absolutely nothing to prevent them today from taking their citizenship from the people who sit in Denmark, for example. Saudi Arabia; I don't remember if they signed it, but I don't think they have. If there is a Saudiian sitting in Denmark that we would like to expel, there is absolutely nothing international that prevents Saudi Arabia from depriving him of Saudi citizenship. So that's the situation, sir. Morten Dahlin fears will happen, if this is adopted, is already de facto valid today. So what is it, sir? Morten Dahlin fears?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141046	Well, what I fear is that if Denmark goes alone in this area, in other words breaks our international agreements and starts making our own citizens stateless, then it can have such a domino effect. And this time the domino effect is not about communist regimes in the Far East; it can be about other countries that are beginning to do the same. I believe that it is basically in Denmark's interest to limit statelessness in the world, because it can also affect ourselves. If there is more statelessness, we can experience an explosion of stateless persons in Denmark that we cannot get rid of, and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141121	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution have asked for his speaking time to be divided up, and that is why Mr Delors has tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Morten Messerschmidt 5 minutes now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141134	Thank you, President. Yes, because I think there is a need now to say a few words about the proposal we are dealing with here before the confusion spreads further. Now we have heard from the two major, or at least two largest parties in the Folketing, several times that if we in Denmark do the same as the British, it will mean that other countries will suddenly take away a lot of citizenship from people who may be in Denmark, and that will make it even more difficult to return home. However, the fact is that this is a convention which has not been ratified by a great many of the countries to which we wish to send citizens, and that means that there is nothing at all to do if we assume that these countries and their authorities and their governments respect the international conventions that are being done here in Denmark that prevent them from doing what several rapporteurs fear. That is why it will be a rather fatal argument which highlights the almost religious position that international conventions are gaining, both in this high point and also in the political debate in general, and I would like to warn against that. It is thus a compromise of the very idea of the Constitution that international agreements begin to be concluded, which restricts what this High Things must do when it comes to the constitution's provision for the granting and withdrawal of citizenship. There are no substantive rules in the Constitution which prevent us in the Folketing, if there is a majority, from depriving us of citizenship. So, when both the Left and the Social Democrats are reluctant to do this, even to some people who have turned their backs on Denmark themselves, have chosen to ally themselves with our enemies, even if they have chosen to wage war against ourselves and our allies, it is simply because of a defaitistic attitude towards the constitution that they have actually signed on to comply with. I think that calls for a little reflection for the further debate. This isn't about international conventions, it's not about fear of whether there is some darkened regime down in the Middle East that would have to do something against us here in Denmark, because they do that every day. It is a question of whether you consider Denmark to be a country of origin which is actually to be protected, whether you are serious about the signature you have signed under the Constitution, which you want to respect, i.e. the Basic Law of 1953 or whether, as another member of the Executive Board, you sit and rub your hands and ask whether it can now cost something. And you ask whether, if we take that step out in reality, it is something that is going to have an impact on the currency balance, or whether someone was going to be afraid or mad at us out there. It has to be said that it really is the question of what approach is taken to the whole political work. That is why I really hope that the subsequent rapporteurs will be a little clearer in spit. If it is at all an advantage for Denmark with all this international regime of conventions and acts that bind us at Christiansborg to adopt the laws that a majority of voters, I think, outside Christiansborg have a quite pious and sincere desire for us to do, then I think it should be made clear. I think we should say quite clearly what the priorities are here, in other words whether it is about combating those who are fighting us or protecting them under some kind of mirage of international conventions. I think history will judge us hard if we do not choose to make it clear that this is primarily about guaranteeing the Danes' birthright to this country that God has apologized to us, I must not refer to the higher powers, but which are basically about ensuring the Danes' security in their own country. That is the real issue, and I hope that the debate from here can revolve around that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141520	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. It's from sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141523	Thank you for the floor. There has just been a wedge between Denmark and the People's Republic of China. I would just like to ask the rapporteur where, in the rapporteur's view, Denmark would be in relation to a country like China if we did not form part of any alliances.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141542	I do not recognise that Denmark has any problem with China. I believe that Jyllands-Posten, which is probably a private company, has some couriers in relation to the Communist dictatorship of China, and that is a matter between them. Denmark should not enter as a public authority and neither apologize nor otherwise be an intermediary. If we are going to do something, it must be to explain to the Chinese what freedom of expression is and that it is a rather more important and better principle to navigate than that of Beijing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141617	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141619	After all, this is nonsense, because what I am asking is how Denmark would stand in a conflict with China without forming part of a system of alliances. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141631	Aha, so the rapporteur is thinking of the general alliances in which Denmark forms part. Well, it is clear that this is a huge advantage, but it is restrictions in the WTO system or NATO cooperation or the Council of Europe, or whatever it may be, which place obstacles in terms of depriving or granting citizenship to our enemies, that is, not. So it is not the case that it means that when we say today from the Danish People's Party that we want the opportunity to deprive all the enemies of our country of the right of birth, then we are not supporters of international cooperation, even when it comes to defending freedoms vis-à-vis China.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141700	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141703	Thank you. I have one question for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who is dealing with the facts behind this motion for a resolution. When you read the comments on the proposal, you can read that only about 20 countries have signed up to the stateless Convention and that the only EU countries, among them, should be Denmark, Great Britain, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Latvia. Is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt sure that's correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141731	No, I'm not. I just heard the Minister say that 21 EU countries have signed the stateless Convention. So I assume that what the Minister is saying is right. So if what Mrs Rosa Lund says is in the remarks, then it is wrong. That, on the other hand, does not matter at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141748	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141750	Yes, because I have checked this convention on the UNHCR's website, and it is very clear that there are substantially more countries which have joined the stateless Convention. So this really just leaves to be said that I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, why a motion for a resolution is being made which is not properly worked out and which is not based on facts. What is behind the motion for a resolution which is not based on the facts which are actually reasonably easy to identify? I can also inform Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, that we have put a written question to the Minister in order to obtain the exact number which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt couldn't find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141831	Well, I think that's excellent. But it's just like I said before, it doesn't matter. I mean, it's completely irrelevant to this case, how many countries have signed this convention. What is important here is what Britain has done, in other words the way Britain has ratified. That is what we are going for, and not how many countries may have ratified. So it is for the debate here a relative, what can be said, peripheral matter, and that is why we may have taken it on with our left hand. But I have to see to it that we get all the data checked through so that Enhedslisten's PØ department doesn't find any more errors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141900	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141904	In fact, it is just because of the rapporteur's last comment on Great Britain, because there has been such a view that, because of its reservations, Britain can make people stateless in practice. But practice has not proved to be that way. After all, it has shown that if people become stateless, Britain does not do so anyway, in other words, people are deprived of citizenship. They sometimes take advantage of it if they are sure that those who lose citizenship can immediately acquire another citizenship as I have understood the law. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131141940	I don't know. I do not know how it is administered in Britain. But what I can say is that the important thing is that it is possible to ratify the Convention in such a way that it can be deprived of the right of citizenship, irrespective of whether or not it has another nationality to fall back on. So whether or not the British take advantage of that option, I cannot say, but I can say that there is a huge difference between the legal position of the British and that of the Danish Government that Denmark should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142006	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142007	My intention to speak was actually to say that that is not what the British can do. After all, there has been a perception that the British can do so, but they cannot do so in practice anyway. That's what makes the case a little special. And the reason why there is that discussion at all is that they took a reservation at the time. And if we now agree with the premise that we should be included in the Convention, as some of the parties here are, that is not something we can do later. In addition, to the factual point I just made: 75 states have acceded to the stateless Convention, 5 are on the way, and 21 out of the EU's currently. Twenty-eight Member States tomorrow 27 Member States which have acceded to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142047	We then solved what Enhedslisten pointed out earlier in the wording, namely that the 21 countries listed in the proposal as all the countries of the world are wrong, because these are the 21 EU countries. In relation to Britain and the fact that Britain does not choose to take advantage of this option, I think it simply underlines or almost undermines the argument put forward by Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund's party about why we can't do anything similar in Denmark. Then there is no evidence that it would have the fatal consequences, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund earlier warned against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142123	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142138	Thank you, President. We in the Radical Left, of course, want the foreign warriors punished. There should be no doubt about that. They have transgressed against mankind; they have transgressed against the view of the woman that we think is right; they have transgressed against all that we as men think is right. That is why we also think it is important that they are punished. Basically, we cannot support the position expressed in this proposal. We can, among other things. not because we cannot accept that international conventions should be violated. It is a question of the stateless Convention, of the Council of Europe's Convention on the Rights of Nationals, and of the European Convention on Human Rights. Why is it so important to us when we say so rightly that it is conventions that have been drawn up many years ago? It is because they value human rights because they equate people because they basically stand for values that are important to us. It is a view of human beings which in every possible way is perfectly correct against what the IS warriors have. The IS warriors have quite correctly violated that view of human beings, but that does not mean that they should be stateless, but that they should be punished. We believe that they should do so in Denmark. That is why we believe it is right that they, as Danish citizens, are punished and will be punished here in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142314	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142318	Thanks for the speech. Now the rapporteur himself mentions the various conventions here and that they are highly valued. One of those who is repeatedly mentioned here is Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which talks about family life here. I would really like to hear the rapporteur now, like the other question I have asked a few times before the Radical Left takes a stand on the right of Danish families to a safe and secure family life without having to live an IS terrorist in the backyard. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142401	We basically believe that when an IS warrior comes to Denmark, we assume that the police will arrest him and that he will go to prison and he will be convicted of what he has done. So there will be no question that an IS warrior will be able to move to Denmark, after which he or she will be able to move in and live next to a Danish family. They will be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142426	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142428	Okay. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of what the penalty for these things is, but we agree that there are IS terrorists going around in Danish society even today, who either have not been punished or have been punished. So I'm just getting a little curious. Now the rapporteur says: I assume. Can the rapporteur guarantee that these IS terrorists will not at any time settle next to a Danish family or, incidentally, create insecurity or outright danger to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142509	When I use the term, this is because I am not in the police shoes, but I have so much confidence in the Danish police that I am convinced that the Danish police and the judiciary and the whole system that works in this context will prosecute these IS people when they come to Denmark. And then, when they have been punished and rehabilitated and so on, I think that a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142535	Thank you. And then it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142537	Thank you, President. Not long ago we had another proposal, on which I signed up as the sender, which was that the countries which refused to take their own citizens back should be subject to consistent sanctions. Our proposal was that they should be on a so-called no-go list, where they would therefore not be able to obtain a visa in Denmark or in the rest of the EU, so a consistent line against those countries which would not withdraw their own nationals. That was rejected by the Radical Left. Today we have the other side of the coin, if I may say so. Now it's about those who are in Denmark or want to go to Denmark and have been given Danish citizenship, where we say: OK, we want to be able to deprive them of citizenship. Here, too, the Radical Left says no. After all, there's beginning to be such a pattern that you don't really want anything at all. So how does Mr. In fact, Nils Sjøberg is saying that this highly regarded international legal order should look like when he is neither willing to put pressure on those countries that do not do what they should, nor on those citizens of the countries concerned who do not do what they should?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142640	Thank you. We believe that the prerequisite for putting pressure on someone is for all countries to be subject to the maintenance of the citizenship that they now have. And that is among other things. Therefore, we also believe that it is in Denmark's interest to limit statelessness here in the world. That's how basic it is for us item number one. And that is where we believe that if we are to send people back to countries and it is absolutely correct that there are major challenges with it we will also have to accept the Danish citizens in the same way, where we have a legitimate reason to be negative about what they have done, such as IS warriors. However, this requires that both they and we do not make citizens stateless, but have responsibility for our citizens. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142727	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142729	I can't help but agree with Mr. Simpson. Nils Sjøberg in that much would be better if people had just had the citizenships that they once had. In other words, the tsunami of naturalisations which the Radical Left has stood for has corrupted the country of origin a great deal, but that is not what we are talking about today. We are talking about this stateless convention, and I just cannot understand why the Radicals are so quick to believe that the international situation is always right, even though it is obviously not working today. What is the radical left's solution to this problem of sending people back to the countries they come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142805	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142806	I would like to point out that this question is about to take a different turn. This question is about making people who are IS people stateless. And that's what we don't want in this context. The second, I would very much like to look forward to a conversation with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142823	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131142835	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing a resolution which must be said to have been discussed and discussed quite a few times over the past many years and last months. That is why it cannot come as a surprise when I repeat myself and say that I have no sympathy for the foreign fighters whom this resolution intends to make stateless. The foreign warriors, through their citizenship, have signed up to respect values such as democracy and freedom. We often discuss in the foreign debate what it takes to show that these values have been turned away, but there is hardly one person in this Chamber who would deny that the killings, rapes and slavery that the IS has been responsible for are good examples. When you have even fought against a coalition of among others. Denmark has clearly demonstrated and demonstrated that it does not want to be part of Denmark. I would rather urge that instead of discussing every six months how we can make these people stateless and resign from the conventions, we actually discuss how we can prosecute these people and punish them harshly. It is paradoxical that we are working worldwide and through the United Nations to reduce the number of stateless persons in the world, and that we must at the same time contribute, according to this motion for a resolution, to the emergence of more stateless persons. Quite frankly, it makes no sense for us to oppose ourselves in the fight against statelessness, break international conventions and, ultimately, not reduce the threat posed by Danish foreign fighters. With these closing words, I would say that the SF does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143037	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143055	Thank you. More than 10 million people in the world live without citizenship, and the right to citizenship is an internationally recognised right. Already in the 1948 UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, citizenship became a right. The fact that the right to citizenship was established with a seven-inch nail in the wake of World War II is no coincidence. Nazi Germany deprived tens of thousands of Jews and regime opponents of their German citizenship and made them stateless. This was true of prominent cultural personalities and politicians. This was true of Willy Brandt, Thomas Mann and Bertolt Brecht, just to mention a few who were deprived of their citizenship. Life as a stateless person in the 1930s and during World War II was not easy to say mildly, and when the world community, in the form of the UN after the war, looked into each other's eyes, they never said anything more and decided to make citizenship a human right. Since 1948 it has been internationally recognized that every person has the right to citizenship. Denmark, together with many other countries, has committed itself to combating statelessness, committed itself to sticking to never again. One of the instruments is the Convention we are talking about today, the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness of 1961. It gives stateless persons born in Denmark rights to obtain citizenship under relaxed conditions, and it also guarantees Danish citizens against the statelessness which would result if we were deprived of our Danish citizenship. The resolution we are discussing today aims to make it possible to make Danish nationals stateless. If we adopt it, then we will require the government to introduce a practice which only countries we otherwise normally do not like, use and have followed. The resolution is aimed at so-called foreign fighters. We cannot read in the comments whether only convicted foreign fighters should be made stateless or whether the proposers will also make people who are not convicted of any criminal offence, stateless persons based on suspicions, presumptions and perhaps secret information from the Police Intelligence Service. We assume that this is the last, i.e. that it is not only convicted persons, but also suspects, whom the Danish People's Party wants to deprive of the basic human rights that citizenship is. We are based on our general knowledge of DF's legal policy, but Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has to correct me if that is not the purpose of the motion for a resolution. Now the Danish People's Party will go further and make people stateless on the basis of suspicions alone. At least that is how we read the proposal. I do not think it comes as a surprise that Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. Moreover, I think it is remarkable that the comments mention a lot of countries where the number does not match anyway, and then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from up here, it doesn't matter. But if it doesn't matter, why do they mention it in the comments? I must honestly say that I think this is a very strange proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143431	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143434	It does not surprise me at all that Enhedslisten thinks this is a very, very strange proposal. The Enhedslisten has previously expressed some very, very strange views about these IS terrorists who now have the opportunity to return to Denmark. But apart from the completely grotesque comparison with the Germany of the 1930s, we are not talking here about great cultural personalities that are being deprived of their Danish citizenship, and we are not talking about good citizens who are being deprived of their Danish citizenship, but we are talking about some who have violated Denmark, traitors who have gone out and been terrorists for a completely crazy regime. So that comparison in itself is completely grotesque. But this is about the fact that we must, of course, be able to take away citizenship from those who are fighting against Denmark's interests against Denmark's security and security, and that is where I understand from the rapporteur that the Enhedslisten is loaded and burst with the terrorists. They think they have these rights in their entirety. But I have to point out that this is a completely grotesque comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143543	It is a little difficult to see whether there was a question there, Mrs Mette Thiesen, but I can tell you that I think it is extremely important that, when we discuss it, we do so on the basis of the story we have. It is therefore very relevant to discuss and have a part in the debate, which is why we have the stateless Convention and why it exists. This should then be part of the debate, and it should be important for New Citizens that we look at the history of which Denmark is a part. Then I can reassure Mrs Mette Thiesen that we are not in the middle of a war with any terrorists. We want the terrorists to be punished, and so there is a greater chance of this happening in Denmark than in the IS camps in which they are currently located.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143626	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143628	It is always special to be taught about Danish history by Enhedslisten or Radical Left or some others. I am a history teacher myself, and I am well aware of the history of this stateless convention. But we also have to recognise that we are here in 2020 and in a different reality, and that many of the conventions that politicians in here simply hold so high and so sacred are made in a different time and for another purpose, and that was so simply to bring to the attention of Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we are not talking here about great cultural personalities or good citizens, but that we are talking about IS terrorists who do not deserve anything from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143703	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143704	After all, Mrs Mette Thiesen is not the only one who is present in this debate, perhaps there are also some outside who are watching this debate, and that is why I think it is quite appropriate to highlight where the stateless Convention comes from. I certainly do not think that is irrelevant. So that's one thing. The second is that we are talking here about rights, and it is now the case that they apply to all of us, including those we do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143731	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143733	I would like to know from where Mrs Rosa Lund gets the idea that there should be a human right. In other words, as a human being, you have the right to citizenship in Denmark, I consider both legal and philosophical to be completely incoherent. The right to be born in Denmark is a gift which the majority of the Folketing is authorized to give under the Constitution, and that is not a right. But it is something that one can earn, and it is clear that if one is acting in a special way, one can also earn that gift to disappear again. So I just want to ask if Mrs Rosa Lund, in her Enhedslistentankcollective, has ever considered what it means when she says that this should be a human right. It is, of course, a compromise of the very constitution that she has signed to abide by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143825	It is a human right to have citizenship, not necessarily a Danish citizenship. We regulate our citizenship in our constitution. We have proposed some amendments to that in the Enhedslisten, but it is, of course, a right that you get in here from the Parliamentary Chamber by means of a legislative proposal. I do not think it is a human right to have a Danish citizenship. I think it is dangerous if we go in and tamper with the stateless convention because it is a human right to have citizenship of one country or another. It is dangerous, I believe, that it is not good for the world to have many people who have no citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143903	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143904	Unfortunately, Mrs Rosa Lund, this will not be more coherent. Because there is the fact that Mrs Rosa Lund believes that it is a human right to have citizenship, but that it is not necessarily a human right to have Danish citizenship. Who, then, is the subject of duty in the mind of Mrs Rosa Lund? So, who is she intending to impose a right that she does not believe Denmark is obliged to give to others? It does not make sense unless it is the case that one can become a citizen on the moon or some other collectively defined object, and that in the end, when it is people who do not want to have anything to do at all, we can say that this is where they have citizenship. What kind of fabulous thing is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131143940	You can apply for citizenship in Denmark if you are connected to Denmark if you want to live here. If you feel more attached to another country, for example. A country you were born in, you can have citizenship there. My appeal is that it simply does not work out that there are many stateless persons. I don't want to be a part of this, and Enhedslisten won't help us make more people stateless. So we are not getting a better world society from that, and I think it is funny, by the way, that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt emphasizes that I should stand up here and say something...
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144019	Thank you! There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144026	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for a very good question here. I remember the considerable number of questions and consultations, not least with Mr Tugendhat. Christian Langballe, to whom the Danish People's Party called ministers from our former blue government in relation to the citizenship convention. But at that time the question was in fact more of how far the government had come by amending the Convention or interpreting the Convention, so that, for example, people whom PET considered to be a danger to Danish security could not obtain Danish citizenship. At that time we replied that it was a priority, a priority that we took seriously and something that we would like to work towards. For our approach is • and it is central here that we would rather look at whether conventions can be amended, as Mette Frederiksen has also said she would like, rather than going alone and stepping out of a convention in whole or in part. That is, of course, the big question today in relation to the issue that we have discussed in the past. This time, the Danish People's Party is putting up for a Danish one-off or at least together with the United Kingdom to withdraw citizenship from citizens who have acted against our interests. I would like to say that we would rather go in and see if the Convention could be amended. In addition, the root of this problem is that the people who have gone to Syria and fought against Danish interests and who have gone to Syria and fought for the Islamic State are mainly people who have come here within the last one to two generations. After all, it is not people who have been in Denmark for the last 5, 10, 15 generations who share our values that feel Danish and that are actually integrated, and therefore an equally central part of this issue is to tighten up on who gets Danish citizenship. We did this two years ago, and we have done it before, but if you go back in time, it has almost been like giving out the turn pass in Tivoli, in terms of who has acquired Danish citizenship. So this problem would not have arisen if we had not given Danish citizenship to the wrong people. So I also hope that, in the wake of this debate, we can soon begin to look at a tightening up in relation to citizenship. So, although I am in favour of the intention of the proposal, Conservatives cannot vote in favour, as our priority in this particular issue will be to amend the Convention. As we mentioned earlier, I look forward very much to the Minister's reply to the Danish Parliament in relation to the status of the work that the Prime Minister has put forward to be done and to hearing what the Social Democrats have done since then, if anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144302	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144305	I have to admit, I have actually waited for Mr. Marcus Knuth's speech with great excitement, not least because Mr. Marcus Knuth has been on a journey lately. We heard an excellent speech from Mr. Morten Dahlin, on behalf of the Liberal Left, but I thought we would hear an excellent speech from Mr. Marcus Knuth on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Now I read a lot, sir. Marcus Knuth's grandfather, Hakon Stangerup, enthusiastically wrote about being Danish and belonging, also as a guilty person. I would say that there was still more conservatism about Mr. Marcus Knuth's grandfather than there is over Mr. Knuth's. Marcus Knuth. So I hope he will continue his journey.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144348	Thank you. I am also a big fan of the Culture match, and I am very fond of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's support. But the key here is that an international order is for the good of all. If we start to resign first from the UN and then NATO and then the EU and finally only the Nordic Council has left, then we can sit and wait for the next big Hanseatic war to start. In other words, international cooperation is a good thing for all of us. Then it is true that conventions sometimes have a side of battle, and there I insist that we should then go in and get that side right instead of tearing the whole international community apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144427	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144428	And in there, sir. Marcus Knuth certainly does not face opposition from us, but we should not be realistic about matters. So, as the debate here has shown, there are six EU countries that are not even signatories to this convention, and it is not the case that they have been banned from the EU or the Nordic Council or what the rapporteur meant. So what does this fear of the consequences build on if we just do the same thing as the British? So it seems a little like a fatamorgana you put up in front of you to come up with an argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144503	Well, now we are standing here with 6 or 8 hours left of British membership of the European Union, and I think that is actually a very good comparison. I would rather that if I could use the European Union as an example, I would have an EU that worked better and that Britain was a part of, rather than every country starting to go on its own. There I maintain that it is the same with the conventions, that is, that it is better that we have conventions that work properly for everyone than that we start going alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144533	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144536	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It may be that the rapporteur can confirm that we adopted this law as a matter of urgency with regard to the withdrawal of citizenship to these IS terrorists. So we agree on that, I think the rapporteur also agrees with me that this is a matter of urgency, so why would the Conservative People's Party not agree that we should adopt it here, thus depriving the citizenship of these IS terrorists? And then maybe you can talk to the others about this with the stateless convention, that is to say, take these negotiations afterwards. This is something that is urgent, this is something that we are facing right now and here, and it is important that consideration of the safety and security of the Danes should be given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144624	I am quite happy to deal urgently with the legislation, including in relation to the legislative proposal mentioned by the rapporteur. Previously, when the Blue Government was formed after 2015, we had a situation in which IS warriors could simply travel freely to Syria and travel back to Denmark with little consequence, and there we also dealt with very, very contentious legislation that could be punished very hard for going into Syria at all. So it's not that nothing has been done. And I think that legislation was very much involved in breaking the basket very significantly on who went to Syria. So we have come up with a lot of moves, but the basic thing here is that by agreeing to deprive citizenship of people who do not have another citizenship, you set in motion a process that I do not think is overall something that is in Denmark's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144712	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144713	So you don't want to make sure the Danes are safe because something might happen. You believe something. At least that is what I hear the rapporteur say. I find that very, very regrettable. I probably had higher expectations of the rapporteur in particular, but also of the Conservative People's Party. Let it go. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned this in terms of citizenship, and I was rather curious about it, because one thing is that I know that both the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party colleague, Mr Seligman, have mentioned it. Rasmus Jarlov has also mentioned this in the Chamber earlier, i.e. the tightening of the rules for the granting of citizenship, but something else is that there is still some in these pools that are being voted on, which there are real doubts about. Why, then, does the Conservative People's Party continue to vote in favour of these laws of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144755-2	First of all, let me hold on to the question from before. It is so easy to say that there is something about the European Union that we do not like, so let us just resign; there is something about NATO that we do not like, so let us just resign; there is something about the United Nations that we do not like, then we resign; and if there is a convention that we do not like, we rush out. I just don't think it's in Denmark's interest to just turn us out, and that's why I insist that it's in our interest to work with other countries and get a better system in place. In relation to Danish citizenship, I would say that I would rather see that we are taking a debate very soon to tighten up so that the right people get citizenship so that we can continue to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144829	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131144851	I actually think that most people remember my rapporteur's speech, which was about IS terrorists, who are now unfortunately being admitted to Denmark, because many of the parties in this Parliament simply lack both the power of action, the will and, above all, courage. It is clear, of course, that those who have left, those who have fought against Danish soldiers, those who have fought against Danish interests, and those who have generally acted against Denmark's interests and security must have withdrawn Danish citizenship. Of course, whether they become stateless or not, they must. Their fate is neither our problem nor our headaches. Denmark is our little spot on the ground. This is where we have our roots, this is where generations before us have worked hard to secure the community of values and the community of confidence that is now waning because of decades of failed immigration policy. In addition, most of Denmark's elected representatives allow dangerous IS terrorists to come to Denmark for the benefit of the IS terrorists and international obligations. But you are not elected by the European Union, you are not elected by the United Nations, you are elected by the Danes! I have a clear obligation, and it is to Denmark and the Danish people, and that is why we naturally also support the idea of being able to withdraw citizenship from those who act against Denmark's interests and against Denmark's security, even if they become stateless. That is common sense. I really hope that the nominally bourgeois parties and politicians who talk a lot about this issue will also act accordingly, both today and when this proposal is to be voted on. I would remind you that, as a member of parliament, you are elected by the people of Denmark and that you only have to vote according to your own convictions, according to section 56 of the Constitution. So remember that and then vote 'yes' to this excellent motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145118	Thank you. Before we move on to the brief remarks, I would like to remind you that this directly indictment also applies to the majority. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Niels Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145134	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the rapporteur believes that it is not our problem or our headache that there are IS warriors. Could the rapporteur please explain what it is then? Do we not share the responsibility for condemning these people for what they have done, which are quite terrible things, against humanity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145159	Thank you for the question. One of the other rapporteurs mentioned this, namely that citizenship has been granted completely headlessly to people who should never have had it. So it's one thing, and it's a huge mistake. And no, I really do not recognise that, so I have been elected to the Danish Parliament to protect Denmark and the Danes, and for my sake, and I have mentioned this here from the platform before, so they can sort of rot down where they are now sitting. I don't really care about that. What I have been elected here for is to secure the Danes, and that is among other things. Knows that these IS terrorists will never come back on Danish soil again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145238	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145240	Thank you. The matter of rotting may differ in opinion, but what is at the heart of this context is that it is people who come out freely and who, in the rapporteur's view, should not have citizenship. In other words, we have no obligation to judge them. Who's gonna do it? Do they have to move around the world and do things that neither of us likes? If we do not take responsibility for their being punished and they are allowed to escape from the penal camps in which they are now, who will be responsible? So, in the rapporteur's view, should they just move around the world and terrorism, or should we, when we have made them citizens, take responsibility for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145318	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145321	To conclude, I can say clearly no, because these IS terrorists are traitors, and that is why, of course, they must have taken away Danish citizenship and never re-entered Denmark. What happens to them then, whether they are prosecuted in Syria, or they are prosecuted somewhere else, but then you can discuss and decide on it. For me, it doesn't really matter. What is most important to me is that they do not get into Danish soil, so they are a danger to good Danish citizens and Danish families, which I also asked the rapporteur about earlier. It's kind of the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145354	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145356	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, we share the overall intention and it's fantastic, but sometimes it just seems so easy with these snapshot solutions: then we resign from the conventions, then we resign from the European Union and so on. So how many international cooperation does the rapporteur think New Citizens should resign? Is that the UN? At any rate, the European Union would like to be put to the vote. Does this also apply to NATO? Does this also apply to the Nordic Council? Well, is it all of them, or are there some people you actually want to stay in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145425	I am so glad that the rapporteur mentions NATO, because we are, in fact, one of the parties which, like the Conservative People's Party, unfortunately did not get through it in the previous government. In fact, we want to increase the defence budget, that is to say, to increase this contribution to NATO, so that we get to the 2% that we have actually committed ourselves to. So, no, this isn't really about just getting out of everything else with a snap. It is essentially about protecting Denmark, and we therefore put the safety and security of the Danes above the conventions that stand in the way of our being able to protect Denmark. So that must be the answer to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145500	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145501	At any rate, I am very pleased with the common approach to the 2%, but I did not quite get an answer to: should one also withdraw completely from the UN? Should we also resign from the Nordic Council? I mean, I only got an answer on NATO. I know you want to get out of the European Union and I know you want to get out of some conventions, but what else do you want out of?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145521	Well, we have seen the clear position that if there are any conventions that stand in the way of protecting Denmark and Denmark's security and security, then we withdraw from them. But we have not taken a definite position on the other. If it is not necessary to withdraw from the conventions, then that is the way it is. But at this stage, for example, there is a stateless convention which stands in the way of ensuring that some IS terrorists do not enter Denmark. And that is where we put the safety and security of the Danes above conventions, which have been made in a very different time with a different purpose. And then I think it is a little funny that the rapporteur should continue to mention the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145556	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145559	I did not intend to put questions to the rapporteur until the rapporteur delivered what can best of all be described as Christiansborg's talk, so as not to answer the question. Sir. Marcus Knuth asked the very specific question: Does New Citizens want us to resign from the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145617	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145621	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145626	Well, thank you. That's a nice concrete answer. Are there any other international organisations from which the rapporteur thinks we should resign? The rapporteur has a few seconds, so the rapporteur has plenty of time to reply very concretely, just as the rapporteur and thanks for the answer he gave to the question about the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145636	I just need to understand whether the rapporteur thinks that I should be quite specific about whether or not we should resign from the Nordic Council and so on. No, we have no intention of resigning, but we have a very clear assurance that we are elected by the Danish people to protect Denmark and the Danish people, and therefore we will always put the safety and security of the Danes over international conventions. However, no, we should not just resign from all sorts of different organisations, such as the United Nations, as the rapporteur mentioned, or the Nordic Council, as the previous rapporteur mentioned. That's not what this is all about, so it's a non-discussion. The rapporteur keeps asking about this, because unfortunately the rapporteur's own party will not take the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145712	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131145720	Thank you very much. Our esteemed Foreign Minister, Mr. Henrik Dahl, unfortunately, has other things to do, why I am holding the rapporteur's speech. So if you're thinking that it's quite unusually impressive, so clever, sir. Alex Vanopslagh has become a speaker, it's because it's Mr Vanopslagh. Henrik Dahl's speech, I read aloud. It says that there is no doubt that, hypothetically, if one imagined that the existing system of conventions did not exist, and if one imagined that a need had arisen to create a new system of conventions, that system would of course look significantly different from what we have today. There is today a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament that Denmark's ability to determine who is on Danish territory is not good enough. Today there is also a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament that Denmark's ability to expel criminal foreigners should be better. There is also a very broad majority in favour of ensuring that our liberal social model and public order are not always adequately taken into account by the system of international conventions, which are therefore the current ones, and not the hypothetical future ones. The problem is that the terms for Danish foreign policy, which Per Hækkerup described in 1965 in the book Denmark's foreign policy, still apply. Foreign policy has four cornerstones: NATO, Europe, the North and the United Nations. And then it has three dimensions: security policy, market policy and value policy. Value policy is that we stand with the countries that have the same social model as we have and that we are willing to fight for it and defend it. This means that we should not pursue a policy that undermines the four cornerstones or compromises the three dimensions. Why? Yes, it is simply because we are a small state and should always act on that premise, and therefore alone can never remain in Denmark's interest. In relation to international conventions, the reality is not as it would be best for it to be, both because in a number of areas time has run out of several of the conventions and because they are interpreted by activist courts. We must be critical of activists' courts, and we are also in the Liberal Alliance. We must do everything we can to modernise the conventions, but motion for a resolution B 61 cannot be implemented without undermining the pillars of Danish foreign policy. That is why we support the Danish People's Party when it comes to the idea that things could be better and should be better in the area of the convention, but the specific resolution goes too far, why LA cannot support it. That was the speech itself. In addition, I should like to welcome Rosa Lund, who would like to welcome the alternative, which welcomes and says that they will not vote in favour of the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150013	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, who will have the opportunity to round off the debate. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150030	Thank you, President, and thank you to all the rapporteurs and to the Minister, of course, for having helped to highlight a problem that I actually find that we all regard as serious, that is, the fact that over the last 30 years people have been brought into Denmark who basically do not want Denmark, which basically has a completely different approach to life, and which ends up becoming enemies of Denmark and transforming it into action by leaving to fight for our removals against our allies. I find that in each of our ways we all want to solve the dilemma that Denmark is faced with. That is why it was actually positive both today in the Chamber when we heard the Minister's speech, but also before hearing promises to try to negotiate an international solution. However, after more than six months in government offices, I understand that not so much progress has been made. And that is why the question of how much you really mean this is inevitably beginning to arise. Last week it was the issue of refugee camps in North Africa where it emerged that the government did not have any real alliance partners, that is, some countries that were so talked to, it was birds on the roof. And today we can more or less hear the same from the problems that apply to the Convention issue here, so that we really do not have any allies when it comes to amending this Convention. That leads to the question: is there anything else? Is it perhaps time to change track and say that it is actually now time for Denmark to go on its own? We have the opportunity. This isn't a proposal that's just been made up and that's come out of nowhere. In fact, it is based on a model that one of our strongest allies has chosen after midnight, namely Britain, where it says: Well regardless of whether it makes people stateless, yes, then we will be able to deprive citizenship; then it is our own citizens, our own constitution, our own social model, which is the most important thing. I wonder, and I think many, here in the Folketing, why the government does not seize that opportunity. Why not take the chance instead of for fear of what might, possibly, hypothetically, happen to hold back? Why not, for once, stand on the side of history and just do what is right, so separate yourself from the whole web of international conventions, which is gradually being used as an argument for why we must not do what is just the right thing, what we are set in the world for, what we are chosen to do, namely to protect Denmark? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150353	Thank you for that and I am sorry that there is a problem with the clock. But there is just one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150359	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you for the debate. Let me ask specifically: does the rapporteur think that Denmark must separate itself and become an independent island in the sea and then say that we are not bound by any conventions or any kind of agreements and that we want to lead our very own lives bypassing what is going on in the rest of the world? Is that what the Danish People's Party means?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150429	No, I can totally reject that. I don't even know where mr. Nils Sjøberg has that idea. There are plenty of international agreements that we strongly support. It would also be a grassy thought with Denmark as an island. That would mean that we would have to give up Jutland. So no, that's definitely not what we're thinking. We are very specific in our criticism of the specific international conventions from which we wish either to obtain reservations or to withdraw from them. I would very much like to read them to Mr. Niels Sjøberg, but I just have to say that I can't do it in the 30 seconds that are left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150458	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150459	Good. Thank you so much. I would like to ask you something else very briefly. Now, Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt believes that Denmark should not fulfil the obligations laid down in the Convention on Human Rights, etc. that we have discussed today, and when you have the basic view that Denmark can simply separate itself from them, while the rest of the world can go on, can it be linked to the view that Denmark can say that we have some Danish citizens that we do not want to go back because they have violated our values and we agree on that and because they have done something that we think is completely indecent and unreasonable and that they should be punished for? How can one reasonably be of the opinion that one can simply say no to accepting them and to fulfilling the international obligations associated with it, while at the same time believing that one can just act as a normal part of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150543	If I understand the question correctly, the answer is as follows: these people, who have violated the obligation of loyalty implicit in having Danish citizenship, are, after all, depriving us of the right of birth. Thus they are not Danish citizens, and thus they are no longer our responsibility. The situation they have faced, possibly in a refugee camp in Turkey or in Syria, or wherever it may be, is not our responsibility. It's their own responsibility. After all, we do not want to deprive people of the right to be born together. What this proposal is about is taking the right of birth from the people who have violated Denmark and, frankly, I do not think they deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150622	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150636	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131150702	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the ban on marketing snuff. The proposers want the government to address the EU in order to ask for an exception to the ban on the marketing of snuff resulting from the EU Tobacco Products Directive. Let me start by saying that I believe that we must work to reduce the use of tobacco, not to legalise the sale of several types of tobacco. I'm not alone in that wish. In fact, a lot of people do. On 18 December, a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties concluded an agreement on a national action plan against smoking by children and young people. It was an ambitious agreement which marks a shift in the policy pursued from Christiansborg when it comes to preventing particularly the use of tobacco by children and young people. A large number of players have long been working to combat the alarming spread of smoking in Denmark. They have asked for action from Christiansborg, and this is what they have got with this national action plan for children and young people smoking. With that agreement, we are putting in place a wide range of initiatives aimed at reducing and preventing the use of tobacco by children and young people. We will, among other things. require all tobacco products to be hidden in stores and that packages be neutral. We are introducing smoke-free school time, which applies to the use of all tobacco products, a stricter advertising ban, and we are regulating nicotine products which are not smoking-stop products and which are not regulated today. It's a deal I'm happy and proud to be a part of. I am proud that we have such a broad majority of the parties that stand together to stop the use of tobacco and nicotine products by young people. I believe that it goes against the work of combating the use of tobacco by children and young people if the government is required to work to legalise the sale of several types of tobacco, including if the government is required to work to obtain a Danish exemption from the snuff ban. I am simply against that idea. I do not believe that we are reducing the use of tobacco by children and young people by giving them even more tobacco products to choose from in shops, because we know that tobacco is harmful. Among other things: contains tobacco and also snuff nicotine, which is addictive. Children and young people's immature brains are particularly sensitive to nicotine, and young people become more rapidly nicotine-dependent than adults. That is why I am concerned that new figures from the Danish Health Authority indicate that non-smoking tobacco is widespread among young people. The recent study shows that 10 per cent. of young people aged between 15 and 24 use smoke-free tobacco daily or occasionally that 25%. In addition, it has tried smoke-free tobacco and that half of the young people who use smoke-free tobacco have tried to stop one or more times without success. I want to combat the smoking of children and young people, but I do not want young people to replace cigarettes with another harmful product. That is why we are regulating with the national action plan, not only cigarettes, but also other tobacco products, including smoke-free tobacco, and that is why it will, for example. also be no more snuffing during school hours. At the same time, let me make it clear that it is not a realistic option for Denmark to request an exemption from the European ban on snuff on an equal footing with Sweden. As you know, the ban on marketing snuff follows from the EU Tobacco Products Directive, which has been implemented in Danish law. Directives are generally binding on any Member State to which they are addressed. There is a ban in the Tobacco Products Directive on the marketing of tobacco consumed orally. All tobacco products intended for oral consumption, with the exception of products intended to be inhaled or chewed, which consist wholly or partly of tobacco in the form of powder or fine particles or any combination of these forms; in particular, goods in portions or porous sachets. As a result of this ban, it is prohibited to place snuff on the market in EU Member States. According to Article 151 of the Act of Accession of Austria, Finland and Sweden, the existing derogation for Sweden was established in the context of Sweden's accession to the European Union and therefore it is not a realistic possibility for Denmark to request a similar derogation. That's why the government can't support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151205	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151208	Thank you. And thank you for a thorough explanation as to why the government cannot support this resolution. I think it is a little relevant to take into account that snuff is, after all, somewhat less harmful to health as a smoke-free tobacco product than smoke-based tobacco, and the Minister has also acknowledged this in other contexts. And it is even the case that the Swedish Snuff Commission has apparently had such a one in 2017 on the basis of WHO figures that the EU could have saved over 350,000 lives every year if the proportion of snuffers, if that is to say, in the other EU countries had distributed as in Sweden, i.e. that people had substituted their smoke products with snuff. And in Denmark alone, we could have saved 4,000 smokers from dying. I think it is very noble to have the purpose that no one should ever be tempted by any tobacco product at all, but if the consequence in the real world is that more people end up smoking very harmful cigarettes rather than using less harmful snuff products, is it not something that impresses the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151321	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151322	Yes, it makes an impression, but it also makes the impression that the Norwegian literature study, which we have from last year, concludes that it is likely that the use of snuff, which you have in Sweden, increases the risk of cancer of the oesophagus and pancreas, increases the risk of high blood pressure, of dying from a heart attack, of impaired vascular function, diabetes type 2 in men and in women increases the risk of premature birth. In addition, it is stated that it is possible that Swedish snuff increases the risk of cancer of stomach and rectum. It is therefore true that, according to the researchers, it is not as harmful as tobacco smoke, but according to this, which is the largest study I am familiar with, of the type of snuff we are talking about here, namely the Swedish snuff, it is not harmless; on the contrary, there are a large number of probable cancer risks that are being exposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151424	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151425	Yes, but a resistance to the marketing of snuff cannot be justified on health grounds. For yes, it is indisputable that snuff is not healthy and it is harmful to health and it is undeniable that it is less harmful to health than cigarettes. And what the Swedish Snuff Commission is pointing out is that you would save lives and you would have a healthier population if the proportion of snuffers rather than smokers were the same as in Sweden in the other EU countries, including Denmark. I would actually just like the Minister for Health to confirm that the policy pursued by the government is in fact, overall, harmful to public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151505	Well, I can't confirm that. On the contrary, it is beneficial for public health, and the whole plan of action that we, unfortunately without the Liberal Alliance, but with almost all the other parties in the Folketing, at least many of them, a broad majority, adopted, is the biggest step forward for public health in this area. After all, our experts have concluded this completely independently. And the thing is, when I went to school, none of my friends used chewing tobacco or bags or slanted, as it is now called no one. No one illegally imported it from Sweden. Now it's widespread and I'm worried that this spread will continue if we do this legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151545	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151548	Well that's exactly what's funny, namely that the day we made it illegal, it became much more interesting, and it has made it now one in four or one in five young people who have tried snuff. I would like to ask a question about the Minister's speech. The question is whether it is tobacco or nicotine that is dangerous. Should we ban anything that has to do with tobacco, even if it is nicotine that is actually dangerous when it comes to the use of tobacco? So the question is: what about all other nicotine-containing products, which are also dangerous? We do not hear much about this when we talk about nicotine gum and nicotine spray, and what else we can get from patches etc. When are we going to take up what is also dangerous, especially from the studies which also relate to pregnant women and so on??
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151636	Thank you for the question. About the dangers of this and about how nervous you should be, I think it is an alarming development, and I do not think it can be said that this is a development that has come about because of the fact that you have been too strict in the legislation. On the contrary, we can see that it is now widespread in school farms in Denmark, all over the country. It's something that wasn't there before, but it's here. That is why we have to act, I think, on this situation. And nicotine and the chewing tobacco that is are dangerous. We know that mucous membranes are affected and that the gums are pulling back, which causes damage to the oral cavity, we know that. And then there's this Norwegian study that says it's likely to increase esophagus cancer and stomach cancer, rectum, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151731	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151733	I would say that I also had a debate this morning, and in connection with what is being said that pancreatic cancer could be one of the things it can give, I found just a study that shows that it does not. So you can get many studies to show different things. I'd like to hear something. The minister says that what you have done now means that there will be fewer cancers. How do you know that? When snuff was previously banned, several people used it. It could be that the same thing happened with the legislation that the Minister has just agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151805	It is not really I who say it; it is, as such, our leading public health experts who have looked at what has been done globally, what has been done about where it has had effect. This is, of course, the evaluation and presentation that we have been sitting with, and I know that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party was also with us, unfortunately, not in the agreement itself, but in the initial work where we were presented, exactly what these regulatory things have had an effect. It has to be said that, unfortunately, it is going the wrong way with regard to the smoking of children and young people and the use by children and young people of various types of chewing tobacco and snuff in Denmark, and we must have combated this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151842	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. And then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first one is from the Social Democratic Party: sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131151851	Thank you. Just before Christmas, a broad majority in the Folketing reached an historic agreement on the most ambitious action against the use of tobacco products by children and young people, because we know that tobacco is harmful and because we know that in recent years more and more young people have unfortunately started smoking cigarettes. Tobacco is also one of, what can be said, the driving forces behind the increasing inequality in health. The tobacco agreement tightened not only the regulation of cigarettes and e-cigarettes, but also of the many smoke-free tobacco products on the market. That is why we also totally disagree with the proposal made here by the Liberal Alliance that we should liberalise the market in tobacco products and allow portion-packed snuff. It is in the very opposite direction of what we have just agreed with a majority in the Folketing on shortly before Christmas. We want to put an end to tobacco consumption among children and young people; we do not want to replace one type of tobacco consumption with another; we want to replace one type of nicotine addiction with another type of nicotine addiction. That is why I can already tell you that we will not be supporting this proposal here. The National Health Service warns against snuffing. Snuff contains nicotine, which is highly addictive. We have heard reports from dentists telling how it can be clearly seen on the gums when a person has used snuff, and there are studies that clearly point in the direction that snuff can increase the risk of cancer of the mouth, throat and pancreas. But snuff is also not a recommended smoking suppressant. To quit toxic cigarettes, there are many recommended smoking cessation products on the market that can be used instead. The authors quote the study as saying that snuff does not seem very attractive to young people and non-smokers. I would like to attack that claim because we have just seen a sharp increase in the use of snuff among young people in recent years. Denmark's Radio could tell a few weeks ago that the number of high school students who use snuff on a daily basis has more than fivefold in just the last 5 years. That development should be an alarm bell for all of us. After all, the State Institute for Public Health has just produced a report here which shows that it is 11%. of special high school boys who use snuff daily. On my own home ground, it is also a discussion that has been going on for some time. At least one of my colleagues from the Danish People's Party knows about the matter. TV2 ØST went around with two boys a few years ago, one of 14 years old and one of 15 years old, and got checked around in Vordingborg and got the frightening information that there are surprisingly many places where children can be allowed to buy snuff completely unproblematic. There were also health care professionals in Slagelse who sounded a serious alarm because they could see that there were children as low as 8th grade, who snuff was quite commonly available to. And the harsh, brutal reality is that it's only gotten worse since those stories drove around, both locally with us and in the whole country. One could spend a long time talking about the formal problems of having an exception negotiated in the EU, and whether Denmark really should use its very, very valuable political capital to get its snuff through. Perhaps there were other things that could be more urgent to fight for. However, I do not really think that this needs to be so much about EU law, because it is, for me, about preventing young people from becoming dependent on harmful tobacco products, and that is why we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152246	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152250	It is just quite short to understand the social democratic position on this issue and, by the way, thank you for an excellent rapporteur's speech. Is it the case that the Social Democrats prefer a situation where no one uses snuff, but where there are, let us say, 10,000 who smoke, and there are many of those who then die of smoking, rather than a situation where only 5 000 smoke cigarettes, but where, on the other hand, 10,000 use snuff, because there are 5 000 new snuff users and there are 5 000 of the previous smokers who use snuff, I hope, the example makes sense and you save 5 000 lives? Is it the case that, because 5 000 new people are using a product that the Social Democratic Party does not like, they say: fuck what we want to keep to the ban, even if it costs 5 000 lives, because the 5 000 others should not go and enjoy a product that we in the Social Democratic Party do not like? Is this how the social democratic position should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152339	Thank you and remember the tone of the Assembly Hall. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152342	I am also a great fan of Holbergkomedie and Erasmus Montanus logic etc. With these constructed realities you can make, and then I'm gonna jump in from here with both legs. I am not going to do that, at least not today, I hope. Well, there's no connection between those things. There doesn't have to be. I pointed out precisely in my rapporteur's speech that we must do everything we can to ensure that children and young people in particular do not start smoking cigarettes, because that means they are getting toxic smoke in. I do not want snuff to enter the schoolyard instead of, as one, what can be said, replacing the poisonous smoke. There are many other and much more recommendable substitutes for it and ways of becoming nicotine-independent at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152439	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152440	For the sake of good order, I would say that the European Union has a scientific committee for new and newly identified health risks. Such a committee has they and that committee states that there is no scientific data supporting the hypothesis that snuff should act as a product leading to smoking. So, on this point, snuff is not a dangerous product that leads to smoking, but it is a substitute product that can cause fewer people to smoke. When the Socialist rapporteur says that everything in the power of society must be done to ensure that we do not start smoking and that we do not continue smoking cigarettes, it does not seem that the method of snuff is used as a substitute product. Why would certain methods be excluded if it could go to save human life? It sounds hollow when, at the same time, people claim to be concerned about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152521	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152522	There is no hollow sound from up here, and if there is, it is certainly not intended. When we can just see that the alarm is being called by the health care workers in Slagelse because they are worried that their 8th class students will be able to use snuff, it is not because they have been smokers for many years and then, as happens in the great dream scenario of the Liberal Alliance, have quit smoking and gone over to snuff. No, they've just jumped in there because it's been an opportunity and because it's been easily accessible. So come on out in the real world. We can see that 11%. of the boys in high school use snuff, and it's not because they quit the cigarettes, but because they've gone straight into the snuff trap, and we'd like something done about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152609	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152617	Thank you. I could make a very, very long speech, but I think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is quite familiar with where the Left is going to lie in this debate, so it is not to be rude that my speech may not be as long as my Socialist colleague was. So I would just like to say that our ambition in the area of smoking is a rather intact ambition, namely to have a smoke-free generation 2030. That is why we were also one of the parties which, relatively shortly before Christmas, reached an agreement with the government and a number of other parties on initiatives to limit the spread of tobacco and smoking. In particular, restrictions on young people's access to tobacco products, which we have just agreed, do not seem to us to be compensated by increasing access to alternative tobacco products harmful to health. We want to reduce the tobacco consumption of children and young people in particular across the board, and this is really also true of the consumption of other nicotine products, and that is why we do not support a proposal which, if I may say so, improves access to other nicotine-containing and addictive products. It must then be said that the Swedish exemption in the tobacco directive, which allows the marketing of snuff in Sweden, was negotiated at the time of Sweden's accession to the European Union back in the 1990s, and it is, moreover, a directive which has been implemented in Danish law, and it must be said that at that time it was also discussed in Danish politics, and it turned out to be uphill for those who wanted to meet the ambition that Denmark had the same exception. It is my feeling that it has hardly become easier today, so that is what we are assessing, in line with the government, is not a particularly realistic option. Then summa summarum, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, the Left cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152829	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152831	I shall try to make the matter brief. Perhaps also a little to satisfy a personal curiosity I would really like to hear: at the time Mr. Martin Geertsen joined the Left Youth, and when he returned in the 1990s, when I was a little child, was chairman of the Left Youth and dreamed of coming to the Folketing, was the dream then that one had to decide whether people could buy snuff products? Was the liberal dream that the youth politician and then the parliament politician had: I am going to the Folketing so that I can prohibit people from buying a snuff product that can make them get used to using harmful cigarettes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131152906	No, I have to say that we had a completely different type of discussion at the time, which I think I will put to you. Alex Vanopslagh entered at another time. But we have to say that we share the ambition that there should be a smoke-free generation, that fewer young people should start smoking, and we simply do not believe that expanding the range of products they can buy is the way forward. But I will give Mr. Alex Vanopslagh so much that there's a dilemma in this. Because there is a dilemma, on the one hand, not to give access to too many products, children and young people are tempted by, and, on the other hand, to have some products that those who might have thought of smoking 25-30 cigarettes a day • no one mentioned, no one forgotten • can use to get off. So I really recognise that there is a dilemma in this, and I think that a political balance has been found in the agreement that was made here before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153008	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153009	Thank you for acknowledging that dilemma. Perhaps I have missed that in the second major middle party in Danish politics. Once again, this is going to be a rather hypothetical question, but I would just like to hear: if it turns out in a few years' time that some studies show that we in Denmark will be able to prevent a number of deaths by allowing snuff products as a substitute for cigarette smoking, will that change the rapporteur's position, or will it not affect the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153042	Well, I think it's a good idea, and now it's not a good time to be dirty, for sir. Vanopslagh has only two brief remarks • that the Liberal Alliance owes some kind of answer to whether you think that snuff should be an accessible product for children and young people. If you look at the range of tobacco products at home, then we have cigarettes, yes, but there is a wealth of other tobacco products that you can, if I may say so, get off on if you have been smoking for many years and you want to get used to it. So I think that the Liberal Alliance owes an answer to what is being done in relation to the children and young people that we should not have in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153125	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153132	Thank you very much. Who should define what quality of life is for the individual? And who is to define what health means to the individual? For many people, enjoyment helps bring quality into their everyday lives, and this therefore helps to strengthen their mental health. We can all agree that there are a great many means of enjoyment that are unhealthy and, by massive consumption, destroy it for oneself and one's health. But if that is what gives the individual the quality of life and the joy of life, why should we prevent it? If, at the same time, it can keep people from far more harmful things, which are far more dangerous, then I do not understand it. Compared to this example of snuff that we made the law for so many years without problems, I think we did them a disservice back then. Actually, not many people used it. I have also tasted it, and I do not think it tastes very good, and I do not actually understand how you like it, so I wonder why the young people are going on. I actually think it's because it's forbidden; then it's exciting. Because it is true, in relation to the questions put to the rapporteurs who have been up here, that when we compare Denmark and we do so very often with Sweden, we actually have the same nicotine consumption. There's just a difference between what we use. In Sweden, where I come from, you use snuff and have used it for many years, and therefore they have not become smokers. And that is actually why they do not have so many smokers, because the cigarette price is next the same as in Denmark. And I am surprised that this is not based on the fact that legislation has now been put in place which would almost ban everything. What's a little funny about this is that you talk about how dangerous smoking is, but you haven't banned it. So it's a little funny or funny; I don't know that you forbid this from the EU. And I would also like to say that the main reason why we support the proposal is that we do not think that it is the European Union that should decide what we want to sell in our country. We believe that this must be the country's own decision. We have fought against this EU legislation, and there were some of the parties that are not going to support it now. I remember when the Left turned around on a plate and suddenly wanted to vote in favour of the EU directive. Otherwise, we would have had a majority that had not banned snuff. So, we know that this proposal doesn't come very far. But we support the intentions in it. Because we thought it was wrong at the time to ban snuff at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153437	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153440	Thanks for the speech. My question is that of a more technical, logical nature. I can understand the logical consequence in relation to the fact that young people in Denmark used to be allowed to use snuff, but then would not. But if I understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party correctly, they started when they banned it. And it should then explain why this has been at a very low level and then increased significantly in Denmark. In Sweden it is legal, and there it has been huge. So, what's the point? Is it because Danes are defiant and Swedish young people aren't? Or what would happen if it were banned in Sweden? Would it fall because it's the other way around, or would it go up? I'm just asking, so I understand the whole logical consequence, in terms of what is the theory of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153533	There is no theory other than the factual information we have so compared to the fact that no young people really used it when it was banned. When they banned portion snuff, they began to go to Sweden and buy it and buy it elsewhere. And the kids sold it around. I mean, we've criminalized a lot of young people who now instead of using snuff, and it's really that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153602	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153602-2	So let me ask in a less turbulent way: Why is it that so awful many Swedish young people use snuff when it is legal, and now the Danish People's Party thinks it is the other way around here in Denmark, that young people here are starting to use it because it is illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153625	In Sweden, it is probably because it has been more normal for several adults to use snuff. And it has introduced some of the young people to also use snuff instead of starting to smoke. After all, some people use nicotine as a stimulant instead of so many other things. That is also why I believe that, if that is what it is necessary to do, it is their responsibility, of course, which health they care best when using snuff, which may make them have a better quality of life, and that is what they choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153657	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153700	Thank you. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party attaches importance to public health. I think we all do that in here. But if you are to understand what the Danish People's Party is saying, I understand that it is also a little to protest against European cooperation that you do not want to have a system of snuff. I am very surprised at this policy, because we agree that public health is of great importance. However, because you then want to be opposed to the European Union, it should be a good idea to accept snuff. Is that correct? At least that is how it was put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153737-2	That was a very pretty question. First of all, we are against it when something comes from the European Union that means that we cannot make a provision ourselves in Denmark. We want to be able to decide for ourselves what is happening in our country. Another thing is that you then ban snuff instead of banning smoking, which you are afraid it will lead to. That's what's weirder about it. But no, we do not think we should ban it and certainly not, because there is another power coming and saying that in Denmark we have to do certain things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153811	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153812	All right, let me put it another way. What is most important for the Danish People's Party: opposition to the EU or public health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153822-2	So that was a very difficult question! In fact, I find that quite difficult to answer, i.e. whether it is the European Union that is the reason for it or whether it is because we want to have snuff in portion packs. I think it's fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153843	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on in the rapporteur's line and this time to the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr President. Niels Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131153859	Thank you, President. Denmark has got an agreement on an exception in relation to summer houses, and Sweden has got an exception in relation to snuff and criticism of snuff and has been allowed to sell snuff. It is part of Swedish culture like surfing, and I think that the Swedes can actually keep both. It would be fine if they kept their snuff, and it would be fine if they kept their sour flow. So I think they can keep both, but let's be a little serious in this context and say that the result is significant for the Swedes and their use of snuff is marked. There are relatively more Swedes who die of cancer in their throats, airways, etc., as the Minister for Health has mentioned, and this is deeply worrying. There is no reason for us to make further progress in Denmark. In connection with the work that we have done to create a really good smoking policy, which I am very pleased that the Radical Left got with the government and who now feels that they have a responsibility and pleasure from this, and we hope that the people get it; at least we think it is a good smoking order that we have got done. I was out on until several high schools, and when you go to high schools, you actually find that more of the students have started using snuff instead of smoking because a smoking policy has been put in place to prevent them from smoking at school and in school. So they use snuff instead, which means that we have now got snuff schools. That is why it is important for us to ensure that this opportunity for snuff is not further increased, especially because it is already apparent that one in ten high school students, as we mentioned earlier, uses snuff and that one in four has tried various smoke-free tobacco schemes, and half of them want to get rid of it. In fact, I believe that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that the people in this area are not further tempted by such things, so I do not think we should make it legal to sell it. So this is simply about prevention and a question of taking responsibility. We want to put an end to the tobacco consumption of children and young people in every possible way, and we fully agree that the price should be raised and so on, and we simply believe that LA's proposal will go the wrong way and therefore say no to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154131	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154140	Thank you for the floor. We have to deal with a resolution by the Liberal Alliance to allow the sale of snuff and, as others have already said, it is actually a bit of a paradox that we should do so, a few weeks after we have just agreed on a very large action plan to prevent the consumption of tobacco and tobacco products by young people. Nicotine is the most addictive substance we have at all. Of course, this is what the market is doing, because a high degree of dependence is also a guarantee that one can sell one's products. As more people refrain from smoking tobacco and more people stop smoking altogether, producers have also shown how innovative they are in creating new dependence on new products. So I do not think I remember that there have ever been so many different tobacco products with nicotine on the market as there is today. Snuff is prohibited in Denmark and in the rest of Europe, but not in Sweden, which has a derogation. I would actually like to emphasise, also in relation to the Liberal Alliance, that we in the SF are also lovers of freedom. We also love freedom and really think that people should have the opportunity to decide for themselves how they want to live their lives. Nevertheless, we think it would be a huge paradox if we were to approve new addictive substances at a time when we are actually still struggling to make tobacco and nicotine as useless as possible. So the time has not come to allow new products that are not already on the market, and therefore the SF will also vote against this resolution. In this context, I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they are also voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154337	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154340	Now the rapporteur has to say if the rapporteur thinks that I caricature the SF's position. But I heard it a little bit that the SF likes freedom, but the spirit of time isn't right for it with freedom, because it doesn't really work right now. It sounds a bit hollow, especially when you want to reject the freedom to buy a product that can go in and replace much more harmful cigarette smoking. However, when we actually put forward this proposal, so soon after we had agreed to raise cigarette prices and make this tobacco agreement, it is somewhere, because the consequence of the Finance Act and the higher cigarette prices was that inequality increased significantly and that child poverty also increased, so that those families with the least money between their hands now have even less money between their hands than they had before the Finance Act, because of the higher cigarette prices and because of the higher taxes they could appropriately call it poverty taxes. Does the SF not recognise that it is actually possible to improve public health by allowing snuff that can replace cigarette smoking and that it is doing so without increasing inequality and increasing child poverty? That must almost be SF's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154443	So I do not recognise the American study which says that snuff is virtually harmless and at least better than nicotine. You get a lot of damage that uses snuff, both in your mouth and also cancer. In fact, I think that we already have an incredible number of nicotine products on the market which can replace cigarettes, and that is where we see a wealth of products being used by people. It is very good if you can refrain from smoking cigarettes and replace them with nicotine products, but I do not think we need to open up just to create an even bigger market with even greater opportunities for nicotine dependence. In fact, I think nicotine is essential here because it is as extremely addictive as it is, and that is what the producers know very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154541	There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154549	Thank you, President. Our position is very clear. We are opposed to all measures that can cause more young people to smoke or use tobacco products in general. And that is a little the way I see snuff, i.e. as a stepping stone for young people in the general use of tobacco products. Now the Minister mentioned that when he was young, no one used snuff, and that is exactly how I remember it. It is not because I have also gone to school in Næstved for a few years, but I think that is how it was for all of us who are in roughly the same generation, I would say, that at that time no snuff was used. I remember that later, when I was in high school, I had a Norwegian comrade who used snuff, and to go out with him was really entertaining, because the girls thought he looked fine, but then when they came in half a meter away from him, they didn't think it was so good, because when he opened his mouth, he had this big brown lump of tobacco up his upper lip. It didn't make his city trips more productive. Let me put it that way. In the meantime, snuff has been modernised, so it is modern, it is delicious and it is in small bags and it is really edible for young people, and frankly I think that is misleading young people towards getting onto other tobacco products and ending up smoking. That is why I see this as something that is not just helping to get people away from tobacco, but something that brings people to tobacco, and that is why we are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154713	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So now it is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131154724	Thank you. It may be true that snuff poses a less risk than smoking, and therefore there may be arguments that there is a health benefit to be gained if more people switch to sniffing instead of smoking. However, there are now a great many good smoking cessations, and the fight against cancer advises against the use of snuff as smoking cessation. The fight against cancer describes smoke-free tobacco as carcinogenic and harmful. They write that if you consider Swedish snuff as a separate product, the cancer relationship is less clear. There are no adequate studies of Swedish snuff so that a final conclusion can be drawn. That is the knowledge which the authors of the motion for a resolution use in their arguments here. However, the fact that the resolution is too thin for a final conclusion on a single product does not mean that Swedish snuff is not carcinogenic. The Danish Cancer Society writes on its website that if you consider smoke-free tobacco as a whole, the evidence is clear: Smoke-free tobacco increases the risk of oral, esophagus and pancreas cancer. In addition, they mention other risks of snuff than equal cancer. In the mouth, where the snuff is placed, damage to the mucous membranes can occur, and snuff can also discolour the teeth and cause the gums to contract so that the teeth are exposed. The nicotine in the snuff also increases heart rate and blood pressure. Nicotine also changes the fat composition of the blood and makes the smallest blood vessels contract. And, overall, there is a significant impact on the cardiovascular system. It has proved to be a very popular thing among young people here in Denmark, and it can be the way into tobacco addiction where the next step is to smoke. The Danish Health Service writes that although cigarettes are still the most common, e-cigarettes and smoke-free tobacco have become more common in recent years, especially among young people. And this is a development that we in the alternative cannot support and do not want to support. We do not want young people to use tobacco products. The Danish Health Service also recommends that we continue to denormalize smoking and that tobacco and nicotine-containing products such as tobacco are used. smoke-free tobacco, e-cigarettes and other products with nicotine on an equal footing with smoking, and that efforts are made at all levels, including for example: in primary school. We are pleased to have been included in the action plan against children and young people's smoking and we want to support the phasing-out of all kinds of tobacco products for the benefit of public health and quality of life. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155023	Thank you. There are no comments on that. In other words, the next rapporteur, whom I can at least see in the Chamber, is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155034	Thank you very much for that, and thank you for your comments and input, which in general were quite similar from the various parties, namely that we here in the Folketing must be those who ensure the health of the people, and we do so with prohibitions and taxes and regulations and knowledge, and now I caricate it a little. But public health was the main argument, and there have been good arguments for it, that is to say that we must maintain a ban on the marketing of snuff. I can't help but think of a fine little anecdote I was always told as a child about a man who goes to the doctor and says to the doctor: I want to be 100 years old. The doctor looks at him and says: Well, it's very easy; do you drink alcohol? No, I'm not touching that. Do you smoke? No, I would never do that. So, are you chasing ladies? No, it's not me. Well, then, why do you even want to be 100 years old? I think it is such a fine little anecdote to show that there are other things in life besides living in almost such a sacred shame and being afraid to hit some deluge and get to eat or touch something wrong that can affect your public health. There is also some joy in life that may not always be healthy, for which one should have a look. But don't worry about it, even if you accept that it is apparently the Parliament's job to interfere in the lives of adults and ensure public health, as has been done here lately, then you have to think about how to do it. That's where I've noticed that you, among other things. do so by higher cigarette taxes, which have helped to increase inequality in Denmark and have actually helped to make all income groups poorer, especially those who already have the least already, it is they who have the highest cigarette consumption, yes, they become even poorer. So I have given some thought: how can I help the government, how can I help the left to improve health without increasing inequality, without increasing child poverty? That's where I think we could do that with this proposal, where we allow Denmark to market portion snuff sales. This, of course, requires an exception to the EU Tobacco Directive, and it is only necessary to be firm that snuff is not healthy and not a single soul has claimed but snuff is significantly less harmful to health than cigarettes. As I mentioned earlier in my questions, the Swedish Snuff Commission has stated that in the European Union over 350,000 lives could be saved every year and in Denmark alone more than 4,000 lives, if it were the case that there were as many in Denmark and in the rest of the EU countries as in Sweden, who went from smoking tobacco to using snuff instead, and the EU's own committee in this area, which has examined the health effects of smoke-free tobacco products, including snuff, comes to the conclusion that snuff poses significantly fewer and less serious health risks than cigarettes. We just have to accept that it is less harmful to health. In fact, the overall risk reduction for respiratory diseases is 90%. So there is a very strong harmless reduction, as one would probably say in medical terms, by going from cigarette smoking to using snuff products instead, just as there is no scientific data to support that snuff should lead to smoking. That's not what science says. Then one might intuitively think that is what is happening, but that is not what science says, and that is why it simply does not make sense to have a ban on the sale of snuff in Denmark or for that matter in any other EU country. Now that we know how incredibly addictive nicotine is and if the people who smoke and find it difficult to get rid of that habit could get a replacement product instead of and it could help save lives, then we should not sit on some lofty pedestal and tell them: No, we will not, because the product you replace it with is not a hundred percent healthy one. I believe that this is both a measure of better knowledge of the public, but also a policy that ends up harming more than it benefits, in relation to public health. Then, of course, there is also the quite fundamental principle that perhaps you should just let adult people live as adult, adult citizens, and that also includes that they should be allowed to buy snuff. Thank you for the floor, however, and thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155506	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155511	I know people want to go out and have a glass of Friday pork now, so I'll try to make it short. As we discussed it before, I agree that there may be a dilemma in this, but I also have to ask a little more about it. You can use snuff for some kind of smoking rehab, and you can discuss whether it is wise and something like that, and it probably isn't, as there are other products that are probably better at that kind of thing. The question here is just as much a different one. After all, we see young people who, as such, have never smoked, but who are beginning to sniff, and I just need to hear the basic and perhaps operational attitude of the Liberal Alliance about whether this is a good idea. How can you prevent young people from using snuff or other smoke - free products for that matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155614	I am not put in the world to scold young people who choose to use snuff. I simply am not. We can then see that some young people choose to use snuff, even if there is a marketing ban, and this can create nicotine addiction, and nicotine dependence can be extremely dangerous if it leads to tobacco smoking. However, restricting access to snuff may then result in the use of cigarettes instead of being legal. So I am not really convinced that fighting some kind of fight against snuff is going to improve public health among young people. But above all in relation to your question, I would say that yes, it also worries me if many young people become addicted to cigarette smoking, but I am not put in the world to prevent them from using snuff or drinking Friday beer, or whatever else you may have from different tendencies during the days of the week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155704	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155709	Thank you. After all, I was given the question of freedom, and then I have the opportunity to ask whether the rapporteur actually means it when I listen to the rapporteur say that this product is so harmless that we can safely put it on the market. It is just before I want to hope that Detector comes along here, because do we not agree that snuff is incredibly harmful to health? Besides being addictive, which is junk in itself, it is also incredibly harmful to health. It is true that it is not the lungs that are attacked first, but it is the pancreas and, in particular, the mouth, and it is teeth and even to a very serious extent, to such an extent that we will see other forms of serious health damage if it is the case that we introduce new, highly addictive products that can still harm the body.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155805	I said that explicite, and I was just about to say that I said it clearly, but obviously I cannot say that I have done so. I said, at least explicite, that snuff is harmful and that it cannot be claimed that it is not harmful to health. So, yes, there are consequences. The negative consequences are significantly fewer and significantly less in terms of damage than cigarette smoking itself is, and that is also what is relevant in this discussion. Moreover, there are plenty of things in life here, lots of products that are dangerous if you abuse them or just use them, and we will end up getting incredibly busy in the coming parliamentary term if it is every small product that exists in this society that we have to regulate and limit and do everything else, which, moreover, does not seem very effective either. As far as snuff in Denmark is concerned, it is not because it is difficult to get hold of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155900	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155901	As I myself said in my own rapporteur's speech, producers have been extremely innovative when it comes to replacing smoking tobacco with alternative nicotine-containing products. Does the rapporteur not think that there are any limits to what we should allow manufacturers of addictive substances to put on the shelves in Denmark, or should there just be a free blow, knowing that young people are therefore looking for these new products?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131155929-2	Well, I am not going to get upset that there are tobacco producers offering less harmful products that can go in and replace tobacco smoking. On the contrary, I might even welcome it if there are people who like the replacement products, including snuff. I'm not gonna get rid of that joy of life from people, I'm not gonna be the politician who says shit, shit, shit, you can't have that joy of life, because it's a joy of life that I don't like. I could appropriately reverse the question and not ask whether there are no limits to freedom, but whether there are no limits to what the SF will interfere with in people's lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160004	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160007	Thank you very much. I am generally in favour of free choice when it comes to tobacco or alcohol, etc., and many times it is self-regulating. Now I mentioned my Norwegian high school buddy, who used the old snuff in the form of such a brown lump under his lip. Not many Danes wanted to. But when the producers then develop it towards becoming more and more targeted towards children and young people, that it becomes more and more like sweets, that it becomes with a sweet taste, then I think that one enters a grey area where one has to say stop, not least on the part of us legislators. Where does L.A. go if you start making gummy with nicotine in it? I mean it very seriously, because the snuff you see today is targeted at young people, and it is not an alternative for smokers who, after many years, will stop. So does LA have a limit on how focused it can be on children and young people before they say: No, this is simply too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160105	That is actually a good question; I would actually like to acknowledge that. I don't think I have a thing about snuff, I have to admit, but with cigarette smoking. If that's the way I know that there were SoMe influencers who did instagram advertisements for cigarette smoking, then even a liberal like me would probably wrinkle his forehead once and think that we can't quite put up with that. So, of course, there's some kind of limit here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160136	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160137	My own mother smoked all her life, and if someone had told her after she got up well in the years, that now she had to quit smoking, it wouldn't have gone very well, she certainly wouldn't have stopped, regardless of how high the price had been set. So when it comes to older people who smoke, I think you should have a respect for adult people's choices. But what really worries me here is the young people. They're the ones that are being targeted with these very modern kinds of snuff. What do you think LA should do to go in and slow down young people so that they don't get into this addiction relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160211	Now Mr. Marcus Knuth himself, for one thing, that increased cigarette prices will not affect the elderly. Nevertheless, the Conservative People's Party has not only voted in favour, but has fought for higher cigarette taxes to be imposed on all sections of the population, especially the elderly, after all, there are more of them than there are young people, even though, according to the rapporteur's own statement, this will only have a very weak effect. So I think that is a bit of a double standard. Having said that, I cannot get upset that there are young people using snuff products. Unfortunately, I simply cannot, and that is not what I am put in the world to limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160244	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Niels Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160247	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh makes it almost sound like it's a right he's fighting for, like you have today. That is not the case. It is a question of the rapporteur fighting for it to be possible to sell it and have conditions that they have in Sweden. And then the rapporteur calls it sacred when it comes to protecting young people. Does the rapporteur not impress at all what the fight against cancer, what the Diabetes Association, what all these organisations working on public health actually say, and that they point out that snuff is harmful and that there is no reason for further sales?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160329-2	Indeed, as I am impressed by the fact that the Swedish Snuff Commission says that we could have saved the lives of 4,000 Danish smokers if they had the same snuff consumption against cigarette consumption as they have in Sweden and over 350,000 lives in Europe. I feel that this is where I think one exalts oneself to sit on some pedestal that can define what is the good and the bad life by saying that people are not allowed to use snuff products. If the consequence of promoting snuff is that fewer people smoke harmful cigarettes and that more people survive and live longer, then I would rather have the situation where both freedom and public health are defended. If you do not have a look at it, I think it will be something better-knowing where you want people to live sacred lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160415	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160415-2	Thank you. There is no doubt that it can very easily be called "improved' when you want to implement a restrictive cigarette policy and tobacco policy that we have implemented before New Year. However, in relation to what the rapporteur is arguing for here, it is actually a question of releasing and opening up conditions that we have worked to tighten up. I think it is extremely inappropriate. Does the rapporteur not impress at all that this is actually a question of public health and respect for young people's lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160451	My main argument for voting in favour of this resolution is that it will improve public health. So in my optics, this will improve public health because it will make fewer people smoke cigarettes and more people use snuff. So I do not buy the argument that the use of snuff should be restricted for public health reasons. I think it is exactly the opposite. The argument that one should limit the use of snuff is that it is not healthy in itself, and then what one goes to become sacred and says that then they must not live an unhealthy life at all unless it is a Friday beer they want to drink.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160533	Thank you. With those words, there are no more brief remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200131160550	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 4 February 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
