ParlaMint-DK_20201124130007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a halt to the burden on the private sector and the cancellation of agreed or agreed tax increases). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Request no. F 23 (What dreams does the Minister for Leisure Education have in 10 years' time, including for children's right to enter a room that offers opportunities to do what you want to do, play, find on and experiment, without having to perform or be run by adults?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Mette Thiesen (NB) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: proposal for a Parliament resolution on the division of the draft law on citizenship into several legislative proposals by regions. B 72). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that, with effect from 20 November 2020, Jesper Petersen has been appointed a State Auditor instead of Flemming Møller Mortensen, who has been appointed Minister for Development Cooperation and Minister for Nordic Cooperation on 19 November 2020. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130112	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130219	Before I start the vote, I would ask you to ensure that you can see your name in the voting panel. If you can see it, you can start the vote. Here you go. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130315	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130337	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130359	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 11 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130444	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130504	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V and KF), joined by a minority (DF and LA). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130545	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130607	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124130632	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I hereby postpone the meeting for 15 minutes to allow us to clean the pressure screens and clear the meeting system before you can move back to your normal positions. I'm gonna ask you to leave the hall in good order. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.25.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124132459	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124132522	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution which we are debating today on increased penalties and financial penalties for the making of bomb threats. Firstly, the motion for a resolution requires the government to present before the end of the year a legislative proposal that tightens the penalties for making bomb threats significant. Secondly, the proposers want the penalty for making bomb threats to be accompanied by an economic sanction. Let me start by stating that, as a society, of course, we should not tolerate people making bomb threats. It not only spreads fear, but can also be a major nuisance both for e.g. public transport and others who are exposed to the threats. As the motion for a resolution says, it can also have major economic consequences for businesses and lead to a significant waste of resources, for example. with the police or the rescue team. Those who threaten to bomb must therefore be subject to a significant penalty and must compensate those companies which suffer losses. Unfortunately, as the authors of the motion also say, it is not quite uncommon that it is young people who are making foolish pranks or people who are mentally unstable who are making the bomb threats. If sanctions are to be tightened up, that will, of course, also apply to those people. In relation to the first part of the motion for a resolution, we can of course always discuss this, and that is something we often discuss: what is the level of punishment in various areas, and how do we think it should be? For me, it is important to emphasise that in 2015 the normal sentence was tripled to 3 months in prison. In my view, this is what we should call a marked tightening up. And in the so-called Lalandia case referred to in the motion for a resolution, a six-month prison sentence was actually imposed on an 18-year-old previously unpunished person. However, due to the young age and good personal circumstances of the convicted person, the Supreme Court chose to make 4 months of the sentence conditional on terms of community service. That is clear, among other things. of the Supreme Court's judgment that the person concerned had just completed the baccalaureate with a good result, that he should have served as a military service and had commenced an education as a nurse. Both, however, were suspended because of the case. So everything else equal was a relatively severe punishment to a quite young man who was not previously punished. Then I have to say that it is a little bit cheap that the motion for a resolution proposes harsher penalties without dealing with the practical consequences of it. Punishment costs not only money, it also requires more staff in prisons, and those employees are undeniably difficult to find at the moment and, as we all know, there is already overcrowding in prisons. There are no simple solutions here, and if there were, of course, both this government and previous governments would have used those solutions a long time ago. Then I turn to the second part of the motion for a resolution on economic sanctions. Here I would like to stress that it is already the case today that, for example, we are not going to vote for the report. A company which, because of a bomb threat, has had to keep closed for a period of time and has therefore lost its turnover, can claim compensation and recover its loss. It is entirely in place, i.e. the replacement part. In the Lalandia case, this meant that the perpetrator was sentenced to pay more than 400,000 kroner. to Lalandia. It's quite a bill to drag yourself into life as a newly hatched student. So it has great consequences for a young person. And here the proposers suggest that the perpetrator should also be subject to liability, so that among other things. The police's hours could be covered. But today it is the case that as a citizen you do not pay for police hours, just as you do not pay for, for example. The time of the fire department. This is the clear starting point of a welfare society such as the Danish one, and it is really a very fundamental issue. Against this background, I believe that society is already reacting with considerable sanctions, both in terms of penalties and also in relation to the possibilities for seeking compensation. At this stage, therefore, the government cannot support the proposal, but I would like to thank the proposers for raising awareness on the subject, because bomb threats must of course be taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133017	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133020	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister for Justice's preliminary speech. It is clear that, as the Danish People's Party has put forward this proposal for stricter penalties and economic sanctions for those who are making these bomb threats, we are not satisfied that the Minister will not be involved. The argument is being used that, in terms of criminal justice, there would be different economic and practical consequences if this proposal were to be implemented, but may I ask the Minister if he does not agree that this also applies to the government, for example. Says that we should now have a little higher penalties • not high enough in the view of the Danish People's Party; we would like to have minimum penalties • for crazy drivers? This isn't so much about capacity, it's about law and justice, it's about justice. And isn't it fair that some significantly higher penalties are given for putting society at a standstill? It could be a S train station, it could be the whole train network?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133132	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133134	Yes, and that is why I think we should all bear in mind that when we propose sharpened penalties and say that we are going to hit it harder, we will have to finish the work and ask what it saw, for example. calls for financial resources for criminal justice and what it requires from the provision of additional capacity. With regard to the proposal on driving madness, which is going to the steel industry and will therefore lead to an increase in the burden of punishment and penalties, it is the case that the draft Finance Act put forward by the government, which is currently being negotiated, provides money for the expected increase in the burden of criminal justice, so that seats can be set up and those who may be convicted of driving madness are actually in prison, without it being merely a burden on a system that is already heavily burdened. However, I agree with the questioner that we all owe it to us not only to take the easy view and say that now we will have harder penalties, but also to explain how we will then finance and compensate with what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133237	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133239	Yes, and the Danish People's Party is also taking part in the Finance Act negotiations with the government. We are doing so only this afternoon and evening.We thank you for the invitation and, of course, come up with good suggestions. I just want to say that we have a penalty of two years in prison, and we have some sentences that are in the low end of the register. In other words, we have told the citizens of Denmark that it will be sentenced to a cash prison sentence if you telephone bomb threats and put the whole train network to a standstill, but the sentences that are actually given even in the case mentioned by the Minister are at the low end. Do we have to do something about it sometime, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133320	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133324	I shall not take credit for anything at all if it is due to others. I have to say that the Left and Preben Bang Henriksen have constantly pointed out exactly that issue, and we are actually in dialogue on how we can ensure that not only do we increase the penalties and the penalties remain low, but that the penalties are also being used. So that work is in this case at the request of the Left, which certainly also sometimes does not often, but it does manage to get sensible things put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133356	Then it's just sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133400	Well, I can be very brief. The Minister said that I am constantly pointing this out, and that is just what I wanted to ask here. So I'm gonna drop further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133409	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133415	I do not assume that there are any further questions, and then we thank the Minister. Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133422	Thank you for that, President. Making bomb threats and putting them into practice at all is a serious matter. Therefore, I am also glad that one of the first things in our area was to apologize to the Godhavnsboys, as we grabbed hold of in the autumn of 2019, was to sharpen the penalties in relation to explosives. There was a backlog in the penalties, also in relation to carrying out actual bombings against public buildings, as we saw with the Tax Office. And it was in the light of a situation in which the gang crime we also look at when we look to Sweden was developing, and other types of crime also developed, in Copenhagen and Copenhagen's surroundings. This was totally unacceptable and therefore the government acted decisively, and it also led to punishments in this area. Secondly, what the Minister also mentioned with the Supreme Court. After all, it is no longer than 2015 that the normal sentence was significantly increased. The Minister has explained this, but that meant that the penalty was increased from 20-30 days to 3 months, and that was a threefold increase in the penalty. Thirdly, we know that, unfortunately, many of those who make these threats are either suffering from a mental illness, are young people or are otherwise caught elsewhere in the system and must be caught elsewhere in the system. Fourthly, it is already possible to make a civil action today, that is to say, that the injured party raises a civil liability claim against the person who brings a bomb threat, in order to remedy the financial losses that may also be involved in this. Therefore, and for the reasons which the Minister of Justice also mentioned, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133620	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Skaarup the word? Sir. Peter Skaarup, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133633	Thank you for that, and I will be brief. I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur for the Socialist Group outlines various things which could lead to penalties being imposed on these matters. We in the Danish People's Party are happy to do so. But when we look at the penalty framework, does the Socialist rapporteur not agree that it is not being filled in at all? In other words, we have a penal framework which allows for years of imprisonment and when we look at the case-law, we can see that in the best case of a few months of prison, and sometimes it is conditional, so that we do not go to prison at all. Is it really satisfactory for the Social Democratic Party that, if you deliberately address a bomb threat to a public institution, then you get a • most would say "not very sensitive" punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133735	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133737	If it is the case that you are very young, a child, if you suffer from a mental illness or anything else that makes you do such things, then I think it is actually very sensible that we have the Youth Crimes Board on the one hand and the psychiatric services on the other hand to help some of those people on the other. Then there are the hardcore criminals who use explosives or other things to bully or create public fears, and they were the ones we hit hard with the security and security package back in autumn 2019, and I think that was quite reasonable because there was a backlog in relation to that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133814	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133817	There is no doubt that in the case of mentally ill people there is a particular challenge and there is also a special way of dealing with them in this system. However, as the rapporteur himself has said, there are also those who are not mentally ill, but who take advantage of the possibility that it will be possible to call in a bomb threat and, by the way, everything will be put to a standstill in our society, and all those who need to get to things cannot get to things because, for example, trains are not running. I do not really understand why we are still at the bottom of almost a tenth or less than a tenth of the amount of punishment that we have. Why is that? And how can the Social Democrats tolerate this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133902	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133903	With regard to the general problem of the normal punishment, which is, of course, within the criminal framework, I fully agree with what Preben Bang Henriksen, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, has also suggested that we should have a debate on. I mean, how do we work with the normal punishment area within the penalties we have? There are a large number of things that can be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133922	Then we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124133936	Thank you. As it seems obvious to everyone, a bomb threat has an extremely serious effect: fear, company closure, police and cancellations, yes, you name it. It is a small deed to pick up the phone and call in a telephone bomb, but I have to promise that it will have a huge impact, and that is why the penalties we have about this should be able to have a certain preventive effect. It should be severely punished. I noted that the Minister for Justice said that the normal sentence was 3 months in prison, and I have no reason to doubt that, but I must declare myself one hundred percent in agreement with the previous questioner, Mr. Peter Skaarup. We have a penalty of 2 years, 24 months, and if I don't count completely wrong, we're down about 12.5 percent. of the penal framework. And it's not just in this case, please, we can take verdicts for serious violence and abuse, especially in repeat cases, and then I won't have to entertain Parliament with what you can do and have to do to reach just over a quarter of the penalty frame. Summa summarum is punishment, and punishment is therefore a subject on which this Parliament is going to have to decide, and this case is no exception either. The normal punishment, as at the moment. is, and as it was said is 3 months in prison, too small, and we in the Left fully agree with the Danish People's Party when it is said in the proposal that it should be significantly tightened. How it is to be tightened up or how much it needs to be tightened up must depend on a closer discussion and, of course, as was mentioned earlier, attention must also be paid to people who are mentally ill and so on, and that is what is happening today in the court proceedings. Then there are the costs, because of course the company in question has some expenses, and that must be closed down, and there is already a legal basis for suing for that today. It follows general rules on damages and it can be dealt with in the criminal proceedings themselves. So we certainly don't have to change that. There remains the huge cost of the police, and there I noted that the Lalandia police had spent 500 hours, and wasn't that 30 hours for the fire department? These are completely crazy hours, and I must say, contrary to the Minister for Justice, there is no reason why anyone who has caused this should not have to pay for their own work as well. The Minister of Justice did not draw a parallel, but a contrast between the police and the fire department, and there I must say it may be that I misunderstood the contradiction that goes on fire in my house, I do not have to pay for the fire department. I think we are all aware of that, but if I set the house on fire myself, as well as if I myself, via a telephone bomb, cause the cost of the police, do I not have to pay for that assistance, or whatever you call it, that response? I think you should. So, on the whole, the Left can agree to the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134306	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is unacceptable when someone threatens to have a bomb that they say they will jump, even if for the majority of cases it is a false alarm, fortunately. These are dangerous threats that create great insecurity every week when we hear about bombs jumping around the world. There can be no two opinions that bomb threats are cowardly and deeply unacceptable. Unfortunately, a number of those who put them forward also have psychic challenges, as the authors of the motion for a resolution have said, and they may be helped more with help than with punishment. That is why we agree with the intention of the proposal. The proposal here is to increase the penalty. I think that requires a little more knowledge of what the level of punishment is today. This is not immediately apparent in the proposal that has been tabled, except for a few judgments which the authors have listed. Now I know that the rapporteur and I have a great passion for the Arsenal F.C. football team. Arsenal F.C. played at the weekend 0-0 against Leeds United F.C., and a crucial factor for it was a red card early in the game, and Arsenal F.C. were therefore under great pressure; if that had not been the case, that battle might have had a different outcome or course. This may also be the case in the judgments made by the authors of the Danish People's Party in this motion for a resolution, namely that there are some small things in the cases where the judgment has gone in one direction rather than another. That's why the full picture is important. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution in this context and in the context of the present proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134507	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, who so beautifully also got soccer in on this; it was nice to hear. Excuse me, sir, there has been a last-minute request for a brief comment from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. We'll take that with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134522	Yeah, I'm sorry about that. I would like to ask the Radical Left: what is the Radical Left's comment on the huge difference between penalties and actual punishment? This is true in general, but now we are discussing this matter, and we agree that the normal penalty is 1.5%. of a penalty of 100 per cent.? What are the Radical Left's comments on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134549	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134550	Thank you. It is always OK when the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs comes at the last minute; then you are very welcome to come up with a question. In this way, the Radical Left has full confidence that the courts assess each and every specific case on the basis of the penalties that exist. We have confidence in this in a sensible and responsible way, so we have no such immediate delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134616	Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134618	Can the Radical Left in theory see that the Folketing may not have much to say when setting a penalty of a given size? So we're miles away. Whether the penalty here was 2 years or 7 years old, it doesn't really matter. Can the Radical Left see a problem in the relationship between Parliament and the courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134643	The Radical Left believes, first of all, that it is important that there is a clear separation between the Folketing and the courts. There is, and there must be. But it is clear that it is also possible, of course, to draw attention in legislative notes and elsewhere to what situations and specific cases there must be aggravating factors in the determination of penalties. So in this way, as a Parliament, you also have an influence on this kind of thing, while at the same time there is the balance that needs to be struck between the Folketing and the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134711	Then Peter Skaarup has also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134716	It was the rapporteur's football metaphor that made me speak anyway. Because that is quite right, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard said that the battle changed a lot after someone nodded another shell, and the one who nodded a shell looked out, and that was probably very reasonable. And what I would then like to ask the rapporteur is: is it not also fair enough that one gets a feeling of punishment here there was expulsion if one calls in a threat, that is, pure crime, against the S-train network, which closes all traffic, has a lot of consequences and also means a lot to the police's work, since they spend a lot of gunpowder on it? Is it not reasonable that we should then have a perceptive punishment, and indeed a punishment close to the penalty, instead of this one about a tenth, or I think it was 12.5 per cent, as the rapporteur of the Left said? It is nothing; there will be no consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134820	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134821	Of course you have to be punished. There can be no two opinions on this, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech just now. And in the same way as when the judge assesses an offense on the football field, that is to say that it has to give red cards it is an individual and concrete assessment based on the rules of the football law, as far as the case is concerned, it is a concrete and individual assessment that takes place in the courts on the basis of what is laid down in the criminal code and which is then decided upon. So in both cases there is a penalty and it is written down somewhere, and it is up to the judge to assess it whether it is on the court or in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134857	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134859	But I think, sir. Kristian Hegaard forgets one thing in this equation. It's all about the courts, but what Mr. Kristian Hegaard forgets, is the legislator, so it's us in here, and what we would pay for a phoned bomb threat if it was a criminal person, not a mentally ill, but a criminal person was a penalty of 2 years in prison. But is it used? I mean, do the courts use those penalties? They don't. That is the problem, and that is why we have this motion for a resolution. Should we not then do some minimum penalties or change the law, so the courts are judging what we really want from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134939	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124134941	I can say that the Radical Left is not in favour of minimum penalties, in which judges are deprived of their competence to look individually and specifically at the matter and whether there is something that speaks in one direction or another. That is why, I think, we have a little more confidence in the courts than the author's party here has, and that they set out what should be the harsh and severe punishment in the specific situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135007	Then we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We can then move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135021	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I myself, as a teacher, have experienced a bomb threat being phoned against the public school where I worked, and this, of course, gave a worse menagerie • roll-marie came out and the school was evacuated to the nearest football stadium. It is serious when you do this, because bomb threats are a serious matter. It scares a lot of people and then it costs a great deal of money for society when the big machinery is rolled out to see if there is real danger. The authorities cannot simply stop investigating a bomb threat, even if it appears to be false, because we have been living with a terrorist threat for many years, and every time the authorities have to react as if it were serious. I would say that this proposal by the Danish People's Party is not new, although some corrections have been made. We dealt with a similar proposal, in which I was also rapporteur, in 2014 or 2015, and back then it seemed that there was an increase in the number of bomb threats it is as if they are contagious and inspire each other. I do not quite know if that is the case today, but we can check that in committee. In other words, I do not know if there is a burning platform for doing anything. The SF then called for the identity of the perpetrators of the bomb threats to be identified. It should give us more knowledge about whether the most important thing is pranks that run out of hand, or whether it is mainly people who have mental problems in their luggage. In fact, I think that it is absolutely essential for the sanctions to be designed more wisely. I am aware that a study of this kind has not yet been carried out, and we can of course discuss whether this is something we should set in motion. I also think we should have an up-to-date knowledge of whether or not claims for the costs of false bomb threats have started to be looked at. It didn't sound like the Minister of Justice had started it, because normally people aren't asked to pay for the investigation work. I do not think that a claim for compensation should destroy a young life by imposing a huge debt on oneself because one has made a silly asshole, but one might perhaps consider whether there could be a part of the cost that could be imposed on the individual. Overall, this means that SF does not accept DF's proposal here today, but that we would like to look further at how to work with it. I think it was about the same thing we said last time, and not much has happened since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135313	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank and thank Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135325	Thank you. With this resolution we are now discussing, the proposers, the Danish People's Party, want to send a clear signal that a bomb threat is a serious offence. I fully agree with that. A bomb threat has major consequences for the people it is going through, and I think that when you read all the background material that belongs to this motion for a resolution, it bears witness to the same thing. Among other things, you can... read that KVINFO has received a bomb threat from a perpetrator who is also suspected of sending threats of murder, rape and kidnapping to women participating in the public debate. After all, these are poisons for free debate and for our democracy. Because, of course, one becomes afraid and reconsiders one's participation in the debate when one is faced with threats of such a serious nature. That is why I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that threats of violence and bombings are very, very serious. The question then is how best to counteract it. Here I think one of the important things to consider is where these threats come from. Who are the people who do this kind of thing? I really would like us to have an elucidation, that is, some sort of crime investigation. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution write, and I quote: the proposal is expected to have a greater deterrent effect, so that there are not as many bomb threats in the future, and this in itself will lead to financial savings. So I do not entirely agree with the Danish People's Party that the people who do this sit and consider what punishment they are being given. Nor do I agree with the idea that they would not if the penalty were higher. And I'm saying that because we really don't know so much about what characterises the people who do this. We know, however, that what characterises them is that they do not think. Because sending a bomb threat is really, really stupid and unforgivable. The resolution also mentions a number of examples of very stupid bomb threats. That is, for example, the case. The man, who in December 2014 in the middle of the Christmas traffic paralyzed Odense Station for four hours by threatening to blow up a bomb unless the Prime Minister resigned. This is once again very serious for our democratic debate and for the people who stand up and do the good work of the day in the service of democracy. It is a violation of the penal code and, of course, also incredibly annoying for the many people who suffer and who have to go back and forth by train. But do the authors of the motion really believe that the bomb threat was a matter of thought on the part of the perpetrator? Was this someone who had thought that if the sentence had been much higher, he wouldn't have done it? Because I'm not sure about that. In fact, I am not at all sure that bomb threats are being carried out by rational thinking people. That may be a little harsh, but I don't think they do. I don't believe that raising the penalty in this case would be preventative. I think we can argue that it does so in other cases, as we do, for example. did so on the issue of bomb attacks on public buildings. And in general, I think it is a good idea for us to make stricter rules when it comes to explosives and weapons. However, since the resolution is not about weapons or explosives, but about threats of the same kind, I am not sure that it will have the effect that the proposers want. There is no indication of this and we cannot therefore support the proposal in the Enhedslisten. However, I would like to emphasise once again that we need to carry out criminal investigations so that we learn more about what kind of people are calling in bomb threats and what kind of people think it is okay. For we certainly do not think so in the Enhedslisten. So we support far along the way the intention, but not the solution in the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135800	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135812	As elected representatives, one of our most important tasks is to protect the Danish people and the Danish order. Unfortunately, in today's Denmark, the threat from terror is a fact. We have some external and inner enemies that will harm us. Fortunately, we have police and intelligence services that have proved able to deal with the threats and prevent potential terrorist attacks. A number of attempts at terrorism have been prevented, and we should be grateful and grateful for that. Unfortunately, there are huge social costs associated with bomb threats. A threat can mean huge financial costs, draw on police resources and, above all, disrupt public order. And not least, a bomb threat can have major consequences for the individual, company, school, etc. It is therefore also a pity that the penalty is rarely proportional to the crime. It is bad for the rule of law and for the sense of justice that, as in the Lalandia case with bomb threats, you can cause six-digit financial losses and waste 500 hours in the police and get away with a sentence of less than six months, most of which are conditional. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124135955	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140008	Bomb threats are serious. It has economic consequences when companies, train operations and the like are shut down, and that, of course, also has human consequences. Raising the penalty for bomb threats will send a clear signal to the perpetrators that bomb threats are not just pranks; it is serious. It is both economical, and it is also for those people who suffer. In new citizens, we would like to see bomb threats also lead to expulsions consistently and without warning if the threats are committed by foreigners. That said, we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140054	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140104	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance can support the motion for a resolution. Whether or not sanctions should be tightened up, we will leave open, but at least we agree that there must be a greater share of the bill for the loss they are inflicting on those who receive the bomb threat and society as a whole when it comes to investigating the bomb threat. We also think that they can be charged the full bill. Unless we are talking about young children or adults with mental challenges, we think that we should be able to pay the full bill for what we have done. In these words, we support the intention of the resolution and we will also vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140210	Thank you for that and thank you for your kind consideration of this proposal. I spoke a bit of a mandate, and I can see that that pile of 'yes' hats got bigger and bigger during the speeches by the rapporteurs, and thank you for that. Yes, we really need just one party. It could be the Radicals, it could be the SF or, of course, it could also be the government that would be involved in imposing significantly higher penalties in this area to deliberately phone bomb threats against public institutions, companies or whoever it is. We have put forward this proposal in the Danish People's Party because we see it as very serious and it has very major consequences for those who suffer from bomb threats. It is about insecurity, it is about an often very great economic consequence for those who suffer. And the penalty, the answer from the authorities, when there is judgment, is that you get on average approx. 30 days in jail. It's far too little seen with our eyes. It's down to about a tenth or less of what you actually have as a penalty frame. There we must stop in Denmark having relatively nice penalties and then not judging by those penalties. In the motion for a resolution we refer to a major case from Lalandia, where, after three bomb threats, three bomb threats, an employee in the Court of Justice was given three months' imprisonment and 60 days' community service, but only one month was done unconditionally in the form of prison. It was then later tightened by the Supreme Court to 6 months in prison... the Minister of Justice mentioned it... but despite that, only the 2 of the months were made unconditional after the information we have. In addition, he received 100 hours of community service. Comparing with that, we have to say that the financial consequences for Lalandia were massive on the basis of all these phone threats about bombs, and various rescuers, the police, the authorities in general, spent after what we can see from the information in the case, about 500 hours on these threats. These are resources that society could, of course, spend much more wisely on other things. To inflict a bomb threat is quite simply too easy and the consequences for those it concerns are far too great. We are not aware of at least in the Danish People's Party that it has been taken seriously, that is to say that you have delivered a bomb after you have phoned a bomb threat, but despite that, all authorities are responding for good reasons to a bomb threat. They're gonna have to do that. Not least in times of terror, you react to threats. The people do the same because it is very frightening when it happens. It's very scary to experience that a bomb might be detonated somewhere in this world. So we need to take threats seriously, and so are the authorities. The rescue team, the police need to take threats seriously regardless of the history of those threats. If we do not take them seriously, we risk in fact not responding properly to the threat that may be more than a threat. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is important that we tighten up the penalties significantly in this area, but also that, in the context of the threat, a financial penalty is imposed, so that you yourself will cover the costs that it has caused, instead of society, the company or the private person who has nothing to do with the bomb threats, which will cover the costs. So there is no reason for anyone to threaten with bombs; it is not reasonable to do so; and the costs caused by a bomb threat should not be covered by anyone other than the one who has threatened with the bomb. This is our starting point in the Danish People's Party. We will fight for the majority that I saw almost here in the debate and the Minister for Justice laughing at it, but it is nothing to laugh at, that is to say laugh at the Folketing and a possible majority. You can work with that, it can be massaged, sir. Minister, and we will try to do that. We would like to have a dialogue with the SF on the basis of what has been said today. The SF indicated that this was something that we wanted to look into in more detail, and we had to do so last time we had to deal with a similar proposal. And if the investigations and judgments are not strong enough and speak a strong enough language, I think we should perhaps jointly have a report or the like where we could ask the Minister to launch such a study. Because I don't think you should just close your eyes to the huge problem that it is. It may well be that there have been no bomb threats in the last week or month, but unfortunately they will come back again, and so it is important that criminals cannot exploit low penalties and punish not least to continue with something that threatens private companies or public companies. So we will continue our efforts and I would like to thank the parties who have chosen to support this proposal. Thanks to the Left, Conservative, Liberal Alliance, New Civil and Almost SF. We hope that we can end up with a majority here in the Folketing in order to be able to make some penalties in this area that works and signals seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140825	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140842	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124140847	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution to tighten up the penalties for prisoners who are currently being dealt with by the Danish Parliament. I think that we can all agree that escaping from a Danish prison, Danish detention houses or, for that matter, a court psychiatric department is a very serious matter. It goes without saying that when a person is in custody or is serving a sentence, we obviously have an obligation to ensure that he or she does not flee. It is absolutely essential for a well-functioning legal system that we also enforce our judicial decisions. Our good prison and police officers do a lot of work every day. They solve an important social task that benefits all of us. That is why we also owe it to them to ensure that they have proper working conditions. They need to be safe when they're at work. They should not appear at their workplace and fear being harassed or threatened. This also applies to health professionals working with the sentenced. That is why it is also totally unacceptable when a prisoner succeeds in escaping. This applies not least to incidents such as the one we witnessed on 19 November last year, when a gang member fled a psychiatric ward in Slagelse, or the one we witnessed on 20 October this year, so only a month ago, when prison officers and health workers in Herstedvester Prison were threatened with their lives as part of a prison escape. At the end of 2019, I asked the relevant authorities to draw up an action plan so that we can avoid prison escapes. The authorities continue to work on the action plan. I expect to receive it by the end of this year. As you know, I recently received an account of the prison escape on 20 October from Herstedvester Prison. I have asked for the learning points that we can take from that episode to be incorporated into the forthcoming action plan. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party instructs the government to tighten up the punishment for prison escapes. The punishment proposed by the Danish People's Party applies to all escapes from arrest, i.e. from places of service, detentions, pensions, institutions, etc. as well as various transports connected with the work of atoning. The Danish People's Party proposes that the penalty framework be completely removed and replaced by a tariff-based penalty system, depending on how many times the person has escaped or has tried to evade. The Danish People's Party proposes that the penalty be set at 1 year in first cases, 11⁄2 years in second cases and 3 years in third cases. If, during the flight, the prisoner makes threats or acts of violence, it must be seen as an aggravating circumstance which can increase the sentence according to the same range as the one I mentioned just now. Finally, it is proposed that conditions should be tightened up during atoning if attempts have been made before to escape from atoning. So marked and automatic punishments, which are being proposed, are likely to lead to an increase in the pressure on criminal services. And I miss the fact that the proposers are concerned about how the economic consequences should be dealt with and how the practical problems of the evidence should be dealt with. Today we are punishing the escape and liberation of prisoners with fines or imprisonment for up to two years. Prisoner escape from e.g. Open prisons and institutions are, as a rule, being punished with unconditional imprisonment for 30 days. If, for example, is that more people flee together, or if the flight has been carefully planned, it can be seen as an aggravating circumstance. Prisoner escape from closed prisons and detention houses shall be subject to four months' unconditional imprisonment in first and six months' imprisonment in second cases. The penalty is assumed to be intensified further when there are more cases. If, during the flight, the prisoner uses violence or threatens to use violence, it may also be indicted so that the total penalty is increased. The penalty for escape and involvement in escape from closed prisons and detention houses was tightened by Law No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It entered into force on 1 May 2019, i.e. just a year and a half ago. It takes thorough consideration to turn the penalty level. The motion for a resolution envisages a significant innovation in criminal law, which will, as a starting point, remove the possibility for the court to make a concrete estimate in relation to the determination of penalties in individual cases. There we are back in the football metaphor from before, which the radical rapporteur so well presented, and, moreover, he carried out the argument as to why it is not a good idea to take the concrete assessment from the courts. Our idea with Denmark is basically based on the fact that we, as politicians, are the ones who lay down a criminal framework and, in some cases, also guidelines on how we want to make use of the criminal framework, but out there it is the courts who have to determine the penalties in concrete terms on the basis of an overall assessment of the specific circumstances. Two cases are not the same, and I think that this should be taken into account in the basic sense. This applies both when a case gives rise to aggravating circumstances, but also attenuating circumstances. However, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that we have a serious problem with prison escapes, which is why, as I said, in 2019 I asked the relevant authorities to draw up an action plan so that we can learn more about how to tighten up here. Basically, I do not believe that stricter penalties alone can solve that problem. It is important that we have the full picture when we look at the various initiatives to prevent the escape of prisoners in the future. That is why I think it is appropriate to wait for the action plan. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I would like to stress that I look very seriously at prison escapes and I do not wish to deny that there should be punishments. However, we need the full picture so that we can take proper action, and that is why I will wait until the action plan is available. I would like to conclude by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution and thanking them for the focus on an important subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141555	There are brief comments, and that is from Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141558	Thank you. I understand that the Minister will not be involved in the punishment for prison escapes, where the rest of us may be of the opinion, at least in the Danish People's Party, that if we are to have something that compels respect, something that makes people not to flee again, yes, there must be a tangible consequence of what is happening. There must be a tangible consequence for the gang leader who escapes and is gone for months. There must be a tangible consequence for Peter Madsen, who is escaping from prison. And there, apparently, the waters just separate from the government. I would like to know when the statement will be made as requested by the Minister. It's been about a year since they asked for it. Isn't it time for it to be delivered soon? The second question is about minimum penalties, because I understand that the Minister is obviously against this. But the reality is that we have minimum penalties for murder and we have minimum penalties for possession of firearms. Is that so wrong, and should it be changed, or how does the Minister view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141702	I didn't say we didn't want to put up the penalty. I have said that it might be relevant to look at, and I have just said that when we now have an action plan that gives the overall picture of what might be relevant to do it may be security issues, it may be other forms of reaction, and it may be quite different conditions that are being pointed out to • it is in the situation where we know the full picture that it is relevant to take a position on what should then be done. When I am concerned about minimum penalties, it is precisely because we then shift the roles between us as the legislative power and the courts as the judicial power, that is to say, there are some courts that are close in to assess the specific case and can see whether there are any circumstances that make it necessary to punish more severely or to punish more lightly. If we take that element away, we are in an automatical position, where for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141812	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141813	I would like to try to ask the question again, because I do not think I really got an answer to it. The Minister is against minimum penalties, I understand, even when it comes to driving madness, one has to understand. That is what comes up with a citizens' proposal for now, that is to say that we must impose minimum penalties for it. But then I ask: does this also mean that the Minister is against the minimum penalty for killing and is the Minister against the minimum penalty for possession of firearms, which, incidentally, we lifted not so terribly long ago? Is the Minister against the minimum penalties, or are they good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141852-2	I think it is problematic in principle problematic when the indicated penalty is mandatory when there are no circumstances that can play a role and have an impact on what the penalty will then be in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141908	I do not see anyone else asking for a brief comment. That is why we thank the Minister and go to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124141920	Thank you. It is clear that the prison escape with the submarine food was spectacular, also serious. It put other inmates, employees, and people on the street at risk. I think we were all sitting there thinking how the hell it could be done. A man like him, why didn't you take better care of him? It is therefore quite reasonable that we should all be concerned about finding out what the hell has happened and how to prevent it from happening again. Unfortunately, this is not the first time, and unfortunately it is not the last time, that we see a prisoner evasive. That is why it is good, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned, to look at what can be learned from it and what we can do about it, and in this context also look at what opportunities are available to prevent it from happening again. Peter Madsen has received the highest penalty, and whether he is punished by 1 year or 2 years or 3 years more does not matter in his case. Then there may be some others who have helped him a little along the way, we don't know anything about that yet. Therefore, you have to look at this in a broader perspective, i.e. what sort of things have to be done. That is why we do not support the proposal here, but refer to the work already undertaken by the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142055	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142057	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, but I think it was a little left-hand work with Peter Madsen. President. - I call the rapporteur. Jeppe Bruus, here tells us that we do not need to think so much about Peter Madsen, the submarineman, in this regard, although he was also behind a very spectacular flight of prisoners not long ago. Because he's on a life sentence. He's on a life sentence for the rest of his life. I'll just remind you of Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus says that the average for those who have a life sentence in Denmark, typically some who have been convicted of murder, is 16-17 years in prison when it comes to the matter. It is clear that when you are down to that level, it is also a matter of self-discussion which means that there are some people that we imagine the population sits on life, but who are not actually sitting on life. Would it not be reasonable, if we now know that there is a feeling of extrapunishment on top of that when they choose to flee the prison and revolt the whole of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142208	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142209	Now I gave a very brief rapporteur's speech, which was almost all about the submarine food, so thank you for the question. In fact, I think that is what I was starting from. And it has to be said, as I can read from the media and have been informed, that it has also been seen that the degree of freedom he has probably enjoyed is likely to have much less of it now. I think it actually has a rather greater significance for that type of prisoner than the punishment. I do not disagree with the need for consistency, nor do I disagree with the fact that this should lead to punishment, and we can also look at whether that punishment is too low in the work that is coming. I totally agree with that. I do not think anyone can be found who feels sorry for him or who really wants him to be at large for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142255	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142256	Thank you. I think it is an opening on the part of the Socialists that they want to be involved in discussing this. Perhaps I should just like to ask whether the Socialists will support the proposal that is before us, because what we want exactly is, whatever a statement has been asked for a year ago, to send out the signal to people in Danish prisons that they must behave properly. You shouldn't run away from prison. You have to stay in prison. And you have to have some punishment in this area that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142341	Sir. Peter Skaarup gets his speaking time every time, and well and well. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142346	Thank you. I think I have explained what the position of the Social Democratic Party is and that we do not support this proposal. I have referred to the good work being done. And then we'll have to see where it takes us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142359	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142405	Thank you. There's a reason people are in prison, and that's because you've committed something criminal. It is serious crime that causes you to go to prison today. The people who commit less serious crimes receive a sentence with community service, they get a suspended sentence, they get a sentence with an ankle bracelet, etc. etc. These are serious criminals in prison. Then how many of them are trying to escape? The proposers have been kind enough to refer to a newspaper article that I requested and which says that it is at least the only figure I could find that in 2015 there were 75 escapes. It is also 75 too much if that is the figure; as I said, I have not had the opportunity to test it myself. That certainly sounds like a lot of people, but that is nevertheless what the article in question says. I now belong to a party which believes that punishment has a preventive effect and must have a preventive effect and, as things stand today, we have a penalty for escape from prison of two years in prison. So that is what is at risk as a maximum penalty: two years in prison. Karnov's legal code says about the normal punishment, and now I quote: as a starting point for the punishment, this is assumed in the motives for paragraph 2. 1 a violation of the provision in first cases is punishable by unconditional imprisonment for 30 days. However, it must be considered an aggravating circumstance if several fleeing together or the escape has been carefully planned. The reported level of penalties is indicative and may be waived by the courts in the upward or downward direction if there are specific aggravating or mitigating circumstances. So approx. At least 30 days in prison is what you write here is normal punishment. And then we're just gonna do the math from before a penalty of two years in prison, 24 months in prison, and here's a normal 30-day prison sentence. So we're down to 4%. I will not tire of repeating my argument from before, but that is something we are going to look at. We stick people in the eye when we tell them about penalties, when people hear about crime described through the media... they are charged with something with a penalty of so many years of imprisonment, and yes, that is quite right, but it is bad, not at all a picture of the real world. People are getting blue in their eyes with the system we have at the moment. It goes without saying that after a prison flight some victims are afraid; there is a risk of new crime; and police resources must be allocated to this. So summa summarum, the Left is perfectly in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal to tighten the penalty. What this sharpening must then be is a closer debate. There are also a few comments on the terms of service that need to be tightened up. So I think they will be today, if you have tried to get out of here improperly and before the time is right, then I think a great deal of benefit is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124142743	Thank you for the floor, President. Almost everyone's seen a movie or a TV show about prison escapes. There may be some fascination about how prisoners plan and carry out such escapes, where you have either seen people dig out or do it in a very spectacular way. I wish that the same energy and creativity were used to get a job or an education when you had finished serving in a prison or a detention house. I remember watching the TV series in my young days, where the main character of the series was an engineer and had a prison tattooed on my stomach and was very smart and clever at breaking out of various prisons. But prison escapes are not fascinating. It's ridiculous, and it's stupid. Because there's a reason you're locked up. That's because you've violated community rules... just like you have to wait some time to get back on the field if you've got a red card in football. But the most crucial and deterrent must be to make it as difficult as possible to escape. Because we have recently seen some cases where the question can rightly be raised: can we do better? For example, safety. Good enough at secure institutions? Basically, I do not believe that anyone decides to escape from prison on the basis of what the penalty is. And a good example of that is that we recently saw a person with a life sentence whose name I will not mention trying to escape from a prison. So I guess that's not the extra punishment you care about. We note that the government is looking more closely at the issue of prison escapes, among other things. on the basis of recent cases, including October, and this is an approach that we support, which is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143011	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That is why we move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143023	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make it clear that I do not think we should flee a prison, but there is no prison, let alone an open prison, which is one hundred per cent safe and so certain that escapes cannot occur. Of course, the case of the murdered Peter Madsen's escape from Herstedvester also bears witness to this. Peter Madsen only got five minutes in freedom, and thank God for that. The staff did as expected by hostage taking. They followed him at a safe distance, and shortly afterward he was apprehended. I actually thought that was a really good job. A great deal of praise to the staff who kept their heads in that situation. In the SF we say no to this proposal anyway, because I think the medicine is wrong. The Minister of Justice has followed up Peter Madsen's escape. Prisoners have moved, and there will be more security, and in future the inmates will have to carry their belongings in plastic bags so that you can see what they have in them, whether they are hiding bomb manikins and the like. That's okay, and an action plan is being put in place. I think that's really good. But I can't help wondering if Peter Madsen's escape could have been avoided if there had only been a few more employees. In the good old days, the prison officers had time to talk to the inmates, and maybe they could discover these little signs that an escape is in progress. Of course, I cannot say that it would have helped if the prison officers had better time for Peter Madsen, but I can at least say that there is a huge staff problem in Herstedvester where he fled. Since 2000, the number of employees in Herstedvester has fallen by one third. That is a great many, but there have been no fewer inmates. At the same time, there are new figures from the Department of Criminal Services which tell us that there are in the same place in the vicinity of 200 unseated guards per month. At least it tells us a little about the lack of time for the inmates. That's what it looks like in many places in the D.C. right now. There are far more inmates than expected. The 2017 Criminal Welfare Agreement expected 3,761 inmates, and there are currently 4,127. So it's well over 300 more than calculated. At the same time, the number of prison officers has fallen by 500, says the Prison League, over a 10-year period. I find that disastrous. So I think my first priority will be to have more prison officers allocated money rather than to tighten up the sentence. That is why I am also saying no to this proposal, because I believe that better relations and more supervision are more important. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143323	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am of course sorry, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that the SF will not support the demand in this proposal for higher penalties. However, I noted that the SF rapporteur here, Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, said that there were some challenges with regard to the staffing of criminal services. We have too few prison officials to look after ever more dangerous inmates, with the result that they get too loose conditions sometimes and that sometimes it is not the employees who are allowed to manage, and instead it is the inmates. And maybe that means you see some of these escapes, too. I would then like to hear from the SF whether SF will require more funds for the criminal justice services in the financial negotiations, because they are going on at the moment, and it was obvious that some more money was being made available, for example. so that wages are offered in education, because this could mean that we could be better able to recruit staff to the criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143432	We are certainly concerned with getting more resources for criminal justice, and we have actually raised the issue, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council knows that. Peter Skaarup well, because he himself is in the police conciliation negotiations, where we believe that a solution should also be found to what we know, namely that when more officers come along, it will provide more customers in the criminal services, and that is why we must at least find a solution there. So we have raised the question in this way. I also think that this is clearly a parameter that we should look at. I believe that we can recruit wider, and then it doesn't cost much. I think it's less than 10 million. kr., so it should be something you could sort out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143514	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143515	When I ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt whether the SF will raise it in the financial law negotiations, it is of course because in the negotiations we have held with the Minister so far, about the police situation, where there are indeed more police officers, we have understood that the government will not talk about criminal justice there. It seems to me that we do not want to talk about funding for the courts or for the criminal services, as I understand it, in those negotiations. Therefore, it is natural to ask, since SF has apparently solved the access ticket to the large table, where the large funds are, whether SF will raise this matter with some clear demands for more funds for the criminal services, now that we have these situations with dangerous inmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143600	After all, the SF is always ready to discuss the resources of the criminal services. For us, it's important that there are more prison officers. I believe that the solution is partly to find money to avoid the cuts and partly to find out how to recruit more prison officers. So I think this is the kind of multifaceted string we're gonna be playing on this question. Among other things: Mr. Peter Skaarup also had a good graduation analysis, where there were many concrete elements that might help to solve this deadlock in the criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143635	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124143642	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we agree that it is a major problem with prison escapes, and we would, of course, like to help solve that problem. But in reality, unfortunately, it is not so surprising that we have this problem. That is certainly not surprising to me, because even if crime falls, the longer sentences mean that prisons are filled to the breaking point and, at the same time, there is an acute lack of prison officers in the criminal services. That is why I think it is very good that the problem of prison escapes is being highlighted, but I do not believe that any longer punishments solve it. For this problem goes much deeper and cannot be solved with the quickfix that the proposal proposes; it requires a long and cool move. In recent years, it has been extremely difficult for the criminal services to attract new prison officers, and this is something that we in the Enhedslist have highlighted several times. For the evil spiral of a poor working environment and the lack of resources we see, ultimately means that the number of prisoners may potentially increase. That is why I am pleased to see in the background to this proposal that account is taken of the problem of understaffing in prisons. That should be part of the debate, but it is not mentioned at all in the Danish People's Party's proposal. In fact, I think that is a pity, because I believe that there could be a rather broad consensus in this regard that prison officers should have better working conditions. In a debate paper by Politiken on 28 May, Bo Yde Sørensen, chairman of the Prisons Association, describes very well how the prisons have been starved and underprivileged for a number of years. And let me quote the President-in-Office: I agree that prison escape should not be possible. But that is just the result of the disaster course towards the abyss that we are all on. I lack understanding and respect for our jobs, our professional skills and our working conditions. We're drowning. Throw us a bailout instead of crossing our arms and condemning our work when what is expected happens. I think it is hard to read, but the President here is right. It is not okay for the criminal services to be held responsible without resources being included when the parliament tightens the penalty screw time and time again. This means that many prison officers are suffering from stress and strain reactions, and frankly, I do not think we can be familiar with that. I am also surprised that the proposers expect this proposal to minimise the number of prisoners to such an extent that the proposal will be self-financing. Behind it lies the assumption that one does not try to escape a prison if only one knows that one is being punished harder for it. With that logic, no crime would be committed anywhere in this country, that is, if we were to punish ourselves hard enough, and unfortunately I do not believe that. I don't know if it's sir. Peter Skaarup's logic... he must answer that himself. I believe that this is actually going to mean the opposite: longer sentences and, therefore, more duties for criminal services and even more pressured prison officers. And for that reason, in the Enhedslisten, we cannot support the proposal. And then I would just like to take this opportunity to call on everyone to read an article today in Berlingske which deals precisely with the pressures of our criminal services. As I said, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144021	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144028	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that Enhedslisten will not support emotional punishments in this area. We ourselves, in the Danish People's Party, think that it helps to send a signal to those who might flee, since they are now in prison and we all agree that they have committed crime. The courts have convicted them, so they must also be in prison and not all kinds of other places. Okay, but what I heard from Mrs. Rosa Lund was that part of the challenge thinks Enhedslisten is that the Department of Criminal Services lacks funds. We can also read about this in Berlingske today, with some examples of what is really untenable. I'd like to hear something about that. After all, Enhedslisten is negotiating Finance Act. We have not seen such all-embracing invitations from the Danish People's Party from the government to negotiate finance law, but that is where the money is, and that is where the money is given. Follow the money, you'd say. So I would like to ask Enhedslisten: Will the Enhedslisten demand more money in the Finance Act for the prison clerks, for the Crime Service? Because you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144140	Well, there are many things that Enhedslisten requires in the Finance Act, although it is a little difficult to get through the mediaimure right now with our demands. There are, in fact, many things we are demanding and some of what we have had a great deal of focus on in relation to criminal justice is ensuring that the new prison places that are being created are not being cut down, but that they are actually being financed. And then I think that both mr. Peter Skaarup and I would like there to be a lot more money for Detectives' Services. I hope that we can work together to ensure that when a settlement on criminal justice is to be renegotiated, where it is my clear ambition that the Enhedslisten should be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144211	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144212	We'll be there in a year or when we'll be together. But right now we've got an emergency situation. We're agreed on that for Criminal Services. We've got prison escapes, we've got bad working conditions, bad vibrations around key things in the Department of Criminal Services. The unit list is at the table. And then Mrs Rosa Lund says that you want to free them from savings, or how can that be understood? It's not something that helps much, you might say. What is needed now is an injection, so for example. pay wages during training.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144250	Well, sir. Peter Skaarup is quite right that it is very unsatisfactory if all you can do is free things from savings. But now, unfortunately, it is not just the prison officers who are under pressure in our public sector, among other things. Because while Mr. Peter Skaarup was in the financial negotiations, not providing proper care for the elderly, proper childcare and a good primary school. So it's a priority issue. Mr. Peter Skaarup, of course, is right. But at least we have an intention that we should have much better criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144320	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144323	Thank you. I am quite sure that Enhedslisten is right when the rapporteur says that we are broadly concerned here about the conditions for prison officers and prison officers in Denmark. For me, there are two major challenges. One is the overlay. Despite the fall in crime, more people are filling up in prisons. The second is the raison d'être in prisons. From my perspective, both are inextricably linked to foreign policy. When we talk overcrowding, we know that foreigners, especially from Muslim countries, are significantly overrepresented in crime statistics. When we speak out loud, we know that both foreigners from Muslim countries, but also those from Eastern Europe, have a completely different way of acting when they are in prison. Does Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten recognise that there is a connection between a failed immigration policy, where too many criminals have been allowed to come here and are allowed to stay here after they have been convicted for the first time, and the overcrowding in prisons and the raison d'être that is taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144435	Mrs Pernille Vermund is quite right in saying that there has been a respite in Danish prisons, and that is a huge problem. I would like to give Mrs Pernille Vermund quite so far along the way that there has been a failed immigration policy. But it is from my perspective because we have been insanely bad at integrating. We have laid out so many stumble threads that it has almost become impossible for people who come to Denmark to become part of Danish society. But I am quite sure that if I know Mrs Pernille Vermund and her party right then that is not what Mrs Pernille Vermund means when she says a failed immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144510	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144511	But so far, so good. For that means that the Enhedslisten recognizes that there is a link between the failed immigration policy that has been pursued and the massive pressure on our prisons, both in terms of the number of prisoners and also in terms of the purpose. This is a good first step. No, it's not New Citizen's or my opinion that the trip wires are the problem. Had that been the problem, we could see other Western countries where integration worked. We can't. The only correlation we can see in the relationship between well-functioning integration in Western countries and what we are talking about here is, after all, the number of people who have come from Muslim countries. And there is the fact that the more people who come from Muslim countries, the worse they are with integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144601	I would say, of course, that the more stumbling threads we, as a society, set out for people who come from outside, the worse integration will be. And I would also like to say that the context does not only come out of the problem raised by Mrs Pernille Vermund, because the context comes from the fact that, for many years, more severe sentences have been carried out headlessly without setting aside any resources for criminal services. Well, that's also gonna help make this overcrowding work. Then I also find it interesting whether these people are Danish citizens or not. I do not think Mrs Pernille Vermund or I know that for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144637	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144640	Thank you. Under this provision, the penalty is 24 months in prison, but the normal sentence is 1 month in prison. That is to say, in the normal cases, 4 per cent of penalties are imposed. of the penal framework. I would like to hear Enhedslisten's comments on that system. I fully understand that part of the penalty should be reserved for the very serious matters and so on. etc., but that is to reserve 96 per cent. Of course, I think that the penalty is quite awkward. What does Enhedslisten think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144715-2	That's a good question, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. We think it is very important that an estimate has been left to the courts. I think I know what it is, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen is after, and I have to say that we really think that the system we have today is very good and very good. That is not to say that we cannot have any discussions about whether this is the right way to do it, but as things stand now, Enhedslisten thinks that we should stick to the system we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144746	That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144754	In order for our legal society to function, it is necessary for those who are in the care of society to remain so. The Danish People's Party's proposal here will sharpen the penalty when prisoners flee, and we think that is sensible. Indeed, it is a threat to our community of law whose convictions do not follow the judgments of the courts. Fortunately, only Peter Madsen managed to be free for a few minutes, but it is still too long, and it is important that there are serious and severe consequences for attempts to run away from punishment. As the law stands today, the sentences are up to two years in prison, but you can also get away with 30 days or a fine, and that is not good enough. If you look at the closed prisons in the EU countries, Denmark is no. 3 on the list of countries where most of the people are fleeing. It's sad, and we need to change that. If you look at both open and closed prisons, we are no. 7, and we cannot and must not ignore it. We're not going to be a country that's gonna be known for breaking out kings. Increasing the penalty for fleeing from the care of society is an important step in the right direction. That is why we support the Danish People's Party's proposal, because in this way we take the issue seriously and ensure that people who want to commit deeds that challenge our community of law think twice before they do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144942	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124144949	We spend large sums of money to ensure that prisoners do not flee when they are detained in Denmark. We also spend a lot of money capturing escaped prisoners. Danes around the country are exposed to unnecessary insecurity and danger when criminals break out of the country's prisons. And the prisoners break out, and they do so too much when we compare ourselves with other countries. It must not be accepted. In new citizens, we believe that punishment has a preventive effect, and that is why we fully agree with the proposers that we need to tighten up the penalties for prisoners. In addition, foreigners who do not already have a deportee's sentence should be shown consistently and without warning if they flee from detention. With those words, New Citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145057	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145105	We in the Liberal Alliance have the basic view that the punishment must be proportionate to the crime, that is to say. The harder the crime, the harder the punishment, and the milder the crime, the milder the punishment. The very crime of fleeing a prison is a crime that must be punished, and sometimes it involves so many threats and perhaps even violence that it must be severely punished. But the actual flight in itself does not judge us as a crime that can incur a higher penalty than the maximum of two years set in law. And we do not think it seems quite wrong to have an average sentence of one month for fleeing a prison. We do not believe that the right thing to do here to prevent further incarceration is to increase the penalty. We believe that the right thing to do is to increase security in prisons so that you cannot escape. And we would suggest going that way if the number of prisoners in Denmark has assumed an unacceptable level. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145233	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145237	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance tends to have a view of public expenditure, which is linked to some form of private responsibility for those who impose the cost on society. That is why it seems a little strange that, when it comes to prison escape, in other words, criminals who are in prison and who are fleeing prison, instead of punishing the individual either with a longer sentence or with a financial penalty, they say that the public must finance higher security in prisons. It is not to say that we in New Citizens do not want a high level of security in our prisons, because we do, but the fact is that we spend huge sums of money to ensure that these people stay inside the prison. Yet those who escape are indifferent to the whistle and run away. Does the rapporteur not see that the imposition of the cost to society of people not respecting the punishment they have been given is a little unfair and perhaps not really very liberal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145344	I can't see that. If you had to have that principle, you would have to have ordinary houses in which people could live, because you shouldn't have to pay any costs to secure the prisons, and then you would have to rely on the punishment being tough enough for them not to. That's not how we see a prison. We see a prison as a place where you can't escape, even if you want to escape from it. We feel safe that if the criminals have done something bad enough to go to prison, we can then keep them in there, even if they want to escape. So we are in favour of safe prisons and not of symbolic legislation in the form of higher penalties. We heard earlier in the debate Mr. Peter Skaarup is asking if it's not important to send this signal. But is it every six months that we have to increase the penalty in Denmark to send out a signal every six months that we think it is unacceptable to break the law? Well, how often do you have to do this to send the signal? According to the Danish People's Party, it is evidently regular to send that signal with an increase in punishment. We do not think this is a proportional policy of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145455	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145456	The last one's kind of polemical. Of course you shouldn't keep doing that. But if fleeing a prison is virtually impunity-free and if society spends enormous resources to secure the prisons, and if the Danes out there, when criminals break out, live with the insecurity and with the danger associated with it, is it not fair enough that it is the one who breaks out, that is, the criminal who pays the price, so to speak, rather than society who has to pay another price, both insecurity and danger, but also in the form of increased costs for those prisons which already cost a lot?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145537	It is society that pays another price when you have to pay for a few months behind bars to the inmate who has fled. So no matter how you do it, society will pay a price. I think that New Citizens should impose the penalty by fleeing a prison against the punishment of, for example, the death penalty. a verdict of violence. According to New Civilians, what acts of violence can trigger prisons for 1 month? Does this sentence of violence apply to the one month prison to flee a prison? If these two things are compatible, there is nothing wrong with the level of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145617	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145621	Thank you for the contribution from the Liberal Alliance. I remember we were once involved in a discussion about who had the right to the moon, who owned the moon. And at one point I thought the discussion was a little uninteresting, because what could we use it for, and a little the same I would say to the Liberal Alliance in relation to the view that we should have escape-proof prisons. For what is the situation there is that this is a good point of view, which I agree with, and which is important, but it is probably not going to happen because the majority in this House will not be able to do so, otherwise it would have been done a long time ago. My question to the Liberal Alliance is this: if we now know that we do not have escape-proof prisons, even when the Liberal Alliance, as they have done recently, sits in government and has the opportunity to implement it, it was not an idea that we gave some tangible punishments for setting the whole device in motion, for example. a gangster who is missing for three months and who is wanted, so the police travel from Herod to Pilate to find the person in question? Wasn't that an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145733	Fortunately, I have never been a member of the Progress Party, and that is why I have not participated in Mr. Peter Skaarup's discussions about who will own the moon. It was something you did in mr. Peter Skaarup's party, but not where I've been. We in the Liberal Alliance have never discussed the moon's ownership. It is a Progress Party speciality, as Mr. Peter Skaarup here dedicates us to. But I think the prisons should be safe! And then Mr. Peter Skaarup: Well, I guess we won't get a majority on that. I don't know. We could try. Now, sir. Peter Skaarup tried to increase the sentence for prison escape. He won't get a majority on that either. So how it can be an argument against escape-proof prisons that there is not a majority for that right now when Mr. Peter Skaarup has to say that there is no majority for Mr Skaarup either. Peter Skaarup's proposal for higher sentences for prison escape, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145834	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145835	I believe that this will soon become such an academic discussion. But now let's say we're gonna pack that stuff up with escape-proof prisons for a moment, because is there a chance of getting a majority for that? There may not be, because it has not succeeded, even though the best intentions have been there. Then we can look at what might be the chance to get a majority for. Should we be standing over in the booth, which then says that we are now among the parties who want to have higher penalties for prison escapes, because the whole device is being put to work • it costs a lot of money for the state • or are we over in the booth where we say no, it doesn't matter, they have to let go of 30 days in jail, because that doesn't mean so much? I just don't understand why the Liberal Alliance is in this booth where they say: No, it doesn't matter; Peter Madsen can get out, and it doesn't matter that the police spend 3 months finding the gangster. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124145929	No, I think we should trust that at some point we have a blue majority again, and if the Danish People's Party then goes to financial law negotiations with a different view than that more money should be spent on old people, on early retirement and on frigate Jutland and such a thing, and instead says that more money should be spent on safe prisons, then it may be that the Liberal Alliance could agree with that view. Or maybe the Liberal Alliance could suggest it, and then Mr. Peter Skaarup agrees, and maybe we could get it sometime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124150002	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then we come to the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124150014	Thank you very much. I will try to compete with the bongos out there in the Palace Square and make a summary of the debate here today. I think that this has been fundamentally positive, because I have been able to see that there is support to tighten up the penalties for prisoners, both from the Left Party, from the New Citizens' Party and from the Conservatives, and indeed from the Social Democrats, for the fact that this may have to be looked at here. So I choose to take it positively and say: it may well be when we have the statement, and some experts have been heard, you have to understand that we can then arrive at a more tangible consequence of fleeing a prison. When I and the Danish People's Party mean it, it is because we see it as an increasing problem that we have these prison escapes. And I think that the citizens, the families, who are law-abiding and watching these prisons where you could never imagine you ended up, simply cannot understand that it is possible to escape from a prison. And there I agree with Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, who spoke a little about this discussion, I simply cannot understand why it is possible to escape a prison in one way or another. When that happens anyway, and that is what it does, there should at least be burning down, for then the consequences, that is, the cost to the inmate, who has already committed some crime, should be so insurmountable that one convinces oneself that one does not do that another time; one does not flee the prison another time, because the consequences are harsh and annoying and annoying and annoying for the individual. That is just not the case today, and that is why we tabled this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. It is not the case today that if you flee the prison as a criminal, you have a hard, enslaving, energy-consuming consequence. I cannot understand it, and I cannot understand why the government has to wait for a report at all. I cannot understand those who do not say: Well it simply does not work with those 30 days, which is the normal punishment. But okay, now we've had a discussion today, and we'll be stubborn and work on achieving the goal that we want to set ourselves. And the goal we would also like to set ourselves is that we should not have any escapes at all, but part of the opportunity to achieve it may well be that we punish it so hard that we do not flee a prison. The latest case, which came to the public's attention, is far from all cases of prison escapes, as such very intensely comes to the public's knowledge.They were Peter Madsen, who threatened his way out of Herstedvester Prison, where he served a life sentence. And here it was with a dummy bomb belt, a dummy gun, a hostage, etc. that he tried to do, and he was actually short-lived, and fortunately I dare not think about what would have happened if he had not been caught. Then he succeeded in finding him and having him put back in prison quite quickly after that happened. Earlier we saw the case of the gang leader Hemin Dilshad Saleh from the Copenhagen district of Nørrebro Northwest, who fled the Department of Psychiatry in Slagelse in a very violent flight. Fortunately, not all escapes are so violent. Firearms were both threatened and used. He was on the run for approx. 3 months, and he had co-conspirators who very systematized got it organized. In addition to such spectacular prison escapes, there are plenty of other cases where we see prisoners fleeing from prison, from leave, from exit, and all these are the escapes that we in the Danish People's Party do not want to accept, and I am glad that there are other parties that support the same view. Basically, if you are in the custody of the system, in the custody of the prison, that is where you are, with due regard for the instructions you receive. And if you're trying to escape anyway, it's gonna cost you a lot of money, and there's got to be a consequence. It is both a question of being informed, in relation to this consequence, that one should not flee, that it is clear to the person concerned that one must never flee from one's sentence, and it is also a question of being presented that the penalty is significant, both in relation to an extension of one's sentence, but also in relation to the conditions that one encounters during prison service. Because, as a society, we must both prevent prison escapes, and we must also tighten up the restrictions on those who then choose to escape from prison. We will not accept fleeing a prison and, at the same time, the crime committed by the prisoners while on the run is even more unfair to the victims who get in their way. Because when we, as a society, have imprisoned a person for crime, we cannot be aware that we are allowing them to create new crime. So I would say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we are going to continue working on this matter and we are going to work on the fact that there will be a majority that will be subject to higher penalties in this area, so that it has some significant consequences that you violate what the Danish society stands for, namely that we punish crime and that we will not tolerate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124150630	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124150646	The debate is open. And welcome to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124150707	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the SF for helping focus on an agenda that is absolutely central to me as Minister of Justice. In Denmark we have the right to think and talk and write as we please. And let me start by stating that it is not a dish that has come of itself; it did not fail with Dannebrog in the arms of Archbishop Anders Sunesen in 1219. Our freedom of expression has been won with blood, sweat and tears, in the literal sense first through the struggle against Nazism and Fascism in the 1920s and 1930s, since through the struggle against communism in the 1960s, 1970s and beyond. And now we see a newism, namely Islamism, which once again turns its ugly face towards freedom of expression • our hard-won freedom of expression and prerequisites for building our society on good Danish values, values such as freedom, popular rule and community. Therefore, we must never forget to fight for freedom of expression. If we forget about it, we'll forget about ourselves. That is why we cannot and must not accept any kind of threat to people who are taking part in the public debate. On the contrary, we must continue to reject the threats aimed at putting our right to express ourselves. The government already indicated in the spring that we are ready to see whether there is a need to tighten up the penalties for such threats to freedom of expression. We did so because, in its report, the Freedom of expression Commission concluded that, although freedom of expression has a good overall framework and conditions in Denmark, there is room for improvement. This applies in particular to the so-called'safety of speech', i.e.: the fact that citizens must be able to participate in the public debate without fear of being faced with threats. Unfortunately, in recent times alone, we have seen several examples of people who have been threatened by their participation in the debate. For example: a female Danish lecturer was recently threatened when on Facebook she wanted to show sympathy with her French colleague Samuel Paty. As you know, Samuel Paty was murdered on October 16 in Paris; he got his throat cut in a bestial way by an Islamist who felt offended that the French teacher had shown a drawing of the Prophet Muhammad in his teaching. The female teacher felt so threatened that she chose to completely remove her facebook post. That is deeply worrying. That is worrying about the free debate. It is worrying about freedom of expression for which we have sacrificed blood, sweat and tears. The example in my optics emphasises that freedom of expression is a right that we must never take for granted and that there is a need to strengthen the criminal justice defence against such threats. It is therefore hardly a great surprise that the government can support the SF's motion for a resolution. In the spring, I expect to present a legislative proposal to tighten up the penalties for threats to freedom of expression under section 266 of the Criminal Code, by doubling the level of punishment, speaking of the dialogue we have had several times today, about the criminal framework and the level of punishment. When we put up with that model, it is because we consider that this is the most targeted and effective way to tighten up the penalties. If we double the penalty alone, we will not really achieve a penalty. What is crucial is not the punishment that the courts can measure but the punishment that they actually measure. On the other hand, the government does not plan to take the initiative to set up a central research and investigation unit, nor do we plan to take the initiative to develop a plan for better administration of victims of threats. There are several reasons for this. First of all, the National Police have stated that police circles already have specialist investigation departments dealing with cases of threats caused by legitimate statements by the wrongdoers in the public debate. We're also dealing with these illegal statements, but it's like something else. Therefore, there is no need to establish a new entity in this area in terms of investigation. Secondly, I think it is a little premature to develop a plan for better administration when the proposers have failed to elaborate on what government efforts are, which we are currently not promising in a satisfactory way. Having said that, I agree, of course, that we must always work to be better at dealing with this type of matter as well. In August 2019, the government launched a plan of action to reduce the time taken by a police report on dangerous crime, such as: serious threats, to the prosecution's position on the indictment. With the action plan, we have managed to reduce the processing time by 73 days, almost a month and a half. In addition, in August 2020, the government launched a proposal for a new multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecutor's office. Here we are calling for a significant reduction in the number of cases and the length of proceedings for criminal proceedings. Today there are citizens who have to wait far too long to deal with criminal proceedings. It puts a stick in the wheel so that they can move on in their lives. We have to do that. At the same time, we are putting forward a number of initiatives, including: strengthen the fight against IT-related crime, including online threats. Specifically, we propose the creation of a new forceful national investigation unit to bring together the most specialised police and prosecutorial forces in the fight against complex crime. We are also preparing to establish a digital police patrol unit that may be present on the Internet to patrol or investigate crime, for example. if severe threats or hate statements are observed online. We must never forget to fight for freedom of expression, because we forget that fight, then we forget some of ourselves too. And that is why, as I said, the government can support the motion for a resolution with these reservations. And I would like to emphasise that we are also ready to see whether further action can be taken to ensure freedom of expression in other areas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151351	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151356	I thank you for your positive comments, and I am also pleased that the government recognises that we need to tighten up the level of penalties for threats to the use of freedom of expression. And then I can say that it is not only Islamists who are threatening. It is also women who take part in gender equality debates and all sorts of others, and this is a huge problem. But what I really want to ask the Minister is how we can ensure, if you do not want what is in the proposal here, that there is effective law enforcement. Because it is very good to have the punishment tightened up, but if it is not also followed by better investigation and the problem is dealt with, then the victims are equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151448	It is absolutely true that it will only be a paper tiger. One of the things that I hope can help with that is that we get some more police, so there's some more resources, so you can do this job too. Something else could be if we were to achieve our multi-year agreement fairly soon, as it currently appears, that we will have an extra focus on online crime, including online threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151513	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151515	Well, it sounds promising that perhaps in the police negotiations we can get a little closer, how we will then also create effective law enforcement. Then I have another question which in fact relates a little to participating in the public debate, but not really so much to the proposal here, and this is about the Minister's colleague Anders Kronborg. If you read the Jydske West Coast, as I do, because that is where I am elected, you can see that he has been harassed the most seriously, by people who have ordered offers in his name on houses, and he has been registered with the sperm donor register, etc. etc. Some have abused his identity to do these things. I do not know what the reason is, but I think it has something to do with him being a food rapporteur and active in the mink debate. But what is at issue in this matter is that he is interfering in the public debate and then has to tolerate it here, but it is not criminal, because identity abuse is not criminalised. So I would like to hear, even if it is not entirely related to this debate, whether the Minister could see that we are also doing something about it and criminalising the abuse of identity which does not necessarily have financial gain in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151632	I am sure that the Jydske West Coast is an absolutely excellent newspaper to read. I would say that it is not one of them that I myself get read; at least there are very long gaps between them. That is why I do not know the specific case, and I have not talked to Anders Kronborg about it either, but I agree that there is a problem, and we have also been over it several times, i.e. the fact that identity theft can be committed without it being possible to punish those who commit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151702	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151706	Thank you. I also find it very interesting that the Minister says that you want to do several things, that you want to take further steps. It could, for example. It is also the criminalisation of harassment on the Internet and the criminalisation of what is called doxing, which is when a person's full name and address are widely shared with harassment as a purpose. These are at least some of the proposals we have in the Enhedslisten. I would like to ask the Minister one question. In fact, I am very curious why it is not considered a solution for a central investigation unit to come. I hear that the Minister says that there are all sorts of other super-fine measures, but why is it not a special investigation unit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151748	Part of the answer is that there are all sorts of other, as Mrs Rosa Lund said, super fine measures. Basically, the view is that the police circles have the skills to deal with this type of crime and, more generally, I think that some of what is good about our Danish police is that we have a single police force, and I think we should be careful to lock the resources to do only one thing. I know that we also need to have special competences and so on, but in reality it is a gain that we have a single police force that I think we should take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151826	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151828	It is true that we have a unitary police, but it is a police force which is already specialised in all kinds of units, which then means that there are some crimes that remain and are not really handled properly and properly. At least that's what the people who are the victims of this type of crime are experiencing. I think we have a particular challenge on the issue of freedom of expression, where we cannot just leave it up to Facebook or Google to say what kind of debate we have about freedom of expression in Denmark, and perhaps that is precisely why it makes special demands on our skilled police officers. So if the Minister is serious about the one-stop shop, then we have to take the consequence and make it a bigger part of police training.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151914	It is true that there are specific competences, and it is also true that we use specific competences and focus specific competences in different areas of our police. I do not think this is contrary to the fact that we have a unitary police force which can be moved to different tasks. And then there is a quite different issue, which is the one that is being touched upon at the end: this issue of regulation of the network, which is a very difficult task that we have for us, and which we have also had the opportunity to talk about sometimes, but where there is a government committee trying to look at how such regulation could be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151949	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124151953	Thank you. I would like to follow up a little where Mrs Rosa Lund left off, not because I am in favour of having a special unit for freedom of expression, but because there is indeed a challenge. If we believe that freedom of expression is so essential for our society, then threats to life should be given greater weight in the public debate or political debate. In our debates on a new police reform, we have talked about priorities, and here I think it would be reasonable to consider whether it is reasonable for politicians or schoolteachers threatened with death to have their cases settled for months if they are taken up at all and that any perpetrator and I speak from experience; I have been sitting before someone in a courtroom can go free for a very, very long time, over a year before a sentence is even passed. If the man really wanted something evil with what he was saying out of threats, then it would be too late. And that can, of course, prevent a great many people from taking part in the public debate. So is the Minister thinking that there could be an opportunity to give greater priority to this kind of crime, in other words threats to freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152121	There is both a general and a concrete answer. The general answer is that I believe that we broadly agree that the processing times that we see at the moment, that is, the time it takes for a case to get through the criminal proceedings chain from notification to prosecution and serving, are too long. We need to do something about that, and we need to do it, among other things. do by setting aside additional resources, which we will have the opportunity to do in our agreement on police and prosecutor's office. That was the general answer. The specific answer is that, as I also mentioned in my speech, we are talking here about the area in which we have put particular emphasis, namely the danger of personal crime, and in which we have actually set up concrete targets to ensure that the time for processing is brought down, which has also succeeded. So we're on the right path there. Are we in the finish line? No, of course we are not, and I think it matters to those who are the victim of a crime. I also think that it means something to prevent cases from being executed quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152224	Mrs Pernille Vermund for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152227	Yes, these are the two tracks, that is, that the processing time should be reduced, and that we then focus more on violence, threats and personalised crime. I really think there should be a third clue that could also be introduced, namely the essential democratic element in this, the importance it has for our people's rule and for ordinary people, not the Minister and I, who may have a little more harsh skin on our statements, who should also be able to speak out in the public debate. Do they dare it? Do they dare? This is particularly true after the debate that has taken place on the Mohammed drawings. When you see how frightened people are that the Mohammed drawings should be shown, it shows of course the general fear of this and once it sets foot in our society, it can also change our culture and support for freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152327	I think that is the main argument for supporting the SF's proposal for a punishment, that is to say, that it is simply the case that we risk the censorship that has been imposed here. And the penalty, as we mentioned in one of the previous resolutions, is only one element, and if it is not just to become a symbol, then it must be followed by what Mrs Pernille Vermund mentions, namely the possibility of dealing with matters quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152353	So thank you to the Minister. The next speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152407	Thank you. There are many exciting things about being a one party government as the largest party in the Folketing. One of them just realized to me now. When you have such a series of resolutions, the Minister is on first, and then the rapporteur comes on afterwards, and the Minister has covered it well. That is why Mr. Peter Skaarup earlier that my rapporteur's speech was equally brief. So I would just like to say as a service briefing that it is simply to avoid literally repeating what my good party colleague, the Minister for Justice, has said. This does not, however, change the fact that, as rapporteur for a government-led party, one also has the right to express oneself, and I will of course take advantage of it here from the parliamentary platform. Since we are talking about freedom of expression and the current scenes we have seen in France, the developments that are taking place are of course very, very worrying. Back in 2006, I had the great privilege of chairing the umbrella organisation called the Danish Youth Council. In fact, I myself had the opportunity to travel around, including in the Middle East, the Gulf, etc., and to talk about the drawing crisis we had in Denmark, and also about why we can really respectfully communicate with each other, without us as Danes of course being able to apologize on behalf of a Danish newspaper that brings some drawings. In fact, I do not think we should do that then, and I still do not think we should. But back then, as today, we can see what this entails from threats and fires on the streets of people who use what they want to define as a provocation, as a cover-up for all sorts of other threats. It's in the most rude and horrible end. But we are also experiencing it in the quite quiet way, if we are to put it that way, and there I am in agreement with the question that came from Mrs Pernille Vermund, in other words, in relation to some experts who stand up and communicate something about the health crisis we are in the middle of and who, in addition to it, must put up with being threatened and receive all sorts of hateful and harassing e-mails. For some of it you might think: Well, there's some sort of mentally confused person. And some of it is quite rough and cross-border and, above all, cross-border for some who have not tried it before. It is unacceptable that our society should develop in this direction. It is to the detriment of public debate and it is to the detriment of our democracy if it means that people with an opinion, an attitude or a knowledge refrain from communicating for fear of the consequences it has. And it is certain that the web and the development of social media have in many ways been a gain for our society, but unfortunately it also has the negative side effect. It is my impression that the voice and the threats that people can get away with have accelerated. That is why we need to look very seriously at this in the Folketing. We have had a good opportunity to do this after the last parliamentary elections. We have made joint decisions in the Folketing about the need to look at regulation of social media: What can you do and what can you not do? There is a dilemma between regulating it on the one hand and respecting freedom of expression on the other, because it is one of the cornerstones of our society. Like the Minister for Justice, I would also like to say that we would very much like to take part in looking at the level of punishment in relation to the threats that are related to freedom of expression. And then there are elements that we cannot support. And then I hope that we can jointly land a report in the Committee on Legal Affairs, preferably broadly with all the parties of the Folketing, because this is another of the grip we need to take on in terms of freedom of expression. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152813	Thank you for the fine words also from the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, who of course thinks something very close to what the Minister thinks. I would just like to hear what the rapporteur himself thinks about how we can bring about effective law enforcement in this area. Because we know that prevention lies in the risk of detection, so how do we get closer to it, so that we also give the victims of these threats and problems real certainty that something is being done?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152851	Well, it's hard. I mean, I would say that the first time I was exposed to very serious threats myself, I thought it was enormously cross-border, and although it was not really illegal, I had the impression that the police actually called him, and the man who made the threats got a reminder that we are now watching you a little bit. Does that mean that you can relax and think that then that case is kind of packed up and closed? It doesn't. Unfortunately, as Mrs Pernille Vermund also says, you will become a little more hardened over time, but that does not change the fact that it is unacceptable that you should be running around feeling that way. Now we are talking about punishment in relation to those cases where there is something really criminal in relation to threats of expression, and it is clear that we must also look at what is going on online: whether we can act more strongly there and whether we can also provide the police with more tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152948	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124152952	Well, thank you for that answer. I just want to know if the rapporteur thinks that resources should be set aside for this type of challenge. I have the impression that we have a police force that is very, very busy, and then perhaps this is going to be kind of in the bottom of the pile, and then it doesn't seem very preventive, because it doesn't actually end up with a sentence to the backers, to the perpetrators. So we leave the victim on the platform. So maybe that's more what I was fishing for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153026	Yes, we need more officers, both closer to the citizens and to some of the hard stuff, including some of the things that are going on online. That is why it is an advantage that we are negotiating a new multi-year agreement for the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153040	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left Party, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153054	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by congratulating the SF on this very good resolution, which we are actually very much in favour of. In the Left, we simply believe that it is unacceptable if a situation is created in which people do not dare to express themselves in the public debate, either in reality or on the Internet. Freedom of expression is such a fundamental right in our democratic society that we must not compromise. Here in Denmark you can say, write and draw what you want, and you can even get it printed in the newspaper if you are good enough. In its report back in April, the Freedom of expression Commission concluded that the greatest threat to freedom of expression in this country is that there are certain groups and individuals who are ready for violence and who do not respect the right of other people to express themselves, and that too many people today refrain from the public debate for fear of terrorism, violence, threats and harassment. That is why it is also absolutely crucial for us that threats arising from other people's statements are punished consistently, and that is why, as I started by saying, we have great praise for the proposal. But we also have a number of questions to which we would like answers. What's the standard punishment in these cases? For punishments we basically like, but it is now best if it works in the real world. In other words, what is the point of doubling the penalty if the penalty is already zero? Now it is a few years since I went to primary school, but 0 x 2 is 0, and that is why in committee we would like to have bored out how the courts are taking advantage of the penalties today. In addition, there is no real mention of funding in the proposal, nor does the SF propose the creation of a special central police unit. That part is not something that the Left thinks we should stand and rush in here from the Parliament's platform, but we would then urge the SF to address it in the debates that are currently running on the police. So to sum up: we are really positive about SF's proposals, which we believe are quite the right direction, but there are also some things that we think should be lulled out and improved, for example. the central unit of the police. So we have the hope that together here in the Danish Parliament we can have a report in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153327	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153332	I also thank you very much for the positive feedback here. I am very pleased about that. I just want to hear how much the Left is ready to fight for effective law enforcement in the police negotiations. Because it is my impression that we need to be aware of what happens when the case is reported, and it probably requires both better police knowledge, but it probably also requires better resources. So what does the Left think about that issue? Is that something the Left wants to fight for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153413	There is no wish for another comment. Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153429	Thanks to the SF for this proposal to sharpen the penalty when chasing people who use their freedom of expression. We in the Danish People's Party think this is quite appropriate, and I am almost tempted to say that a blind hen can also find grain when it comes to punishment. For SF may not be the party you always think of when you talk about that now you also have to punish significantly harder in some areas, but you have to say that is what is being proposed here. However, I would like to say that if we are now to discuss what this will mean in practice, and that is what we must do, and when we go in and look at practices set up in relation to criminal penalties, and when we increase the penalty in one area, and learn from the experience we have in other areas • We have today discussed the Danish People's Party's proposal on tougher penalties for bomb threats, we have discussed the Danish People's Party's proposal on tougher penalties for prison escapes, and we in the Danish Parliament will discuss madness and harsher penalties for it • It is clear that it is very striking that practice is often that the punishment that is specifically given to those who violate the penal code in the area in question is very, very low. For example: As far as prison escapes are concerned, two years, and the penalty is, on average, 30 days, and that is why I think it is important, when we continue to work on this proposal, where it seems that there is a majority, that we clarify what these matters are going to end up in the courts. In order to increase or double the penalty framework does not necessarily mean that we will have significantly higher penalties and felt penalties in this area. So I would also like to hear from the SF whether the concrete thing that is also mentioned in the proposal with regard to investigations is something that we might need to work together on. We in the Danish People's Party are very much in favour of putting extra coal on the investigation of these cases so that we protect those who use their freedom of expression in a better way. And it has to be said that what has happened in France, with the poor teacher who is going to teach the Mohammed drawings and the consequences it will have, shows a little about how important it is for us to protect people who are actually just doing their jobs and using their freedom of expression in relation to those who cannot tolerate what will not accept it. So the investigation part is important, and there I noticed, if you're going to be the devil's lawyer a little bit, on what the government said it wasn't quite clear to me what you're really thinking about here in relation to the investigation. But you have to say that it is important to show zero tolerance in relation to the cases in this area, because it may be the small things that become the big ones that become the bigger ones, and then suddenly we have what must not happen and where it is hard on those who really just use their freedom of expression. So positive vibrations in relation to this from the Danish People's Party we could have thought of this proposal ourselves. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153802	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124153851	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for raising this very important issue. I welcome the fact that in their report the Freedom of expression Commission concludes that freedom of expression is in good shape, but the Freedom of expression Commission also said that the greatest challenge is what we call the security of expression, that is, the security of those who express themselves. We must and must safeguard one of the most fundamental rights: the right to express ourselves and to say what we think. There must be zero tolerance for those who want democracy to hurt, because it is a fundamental right regardless of political affiliation, religious beliefs and much else to say what you want with the modifications that otherwise come from the law. We must fight for that, as many others have done before us. With the motion for a resolution, the SF raises three questions. The first is a proposal to tighten up the penal framework in section 266 of the Criminal Code on threats from up to 2 years in prison to up to 4 years in cases where the threat is due to the victim's attachment to or apostasy from a religion, a community of opinion or a political conviction or is intended to prevent the victim from using his freedom of expression. The question of an increase in the penalty was also dealt with in the Freedom of Movement Commission, and the majority did not find it necessary, but it was argued that it was important to enforce the many offences that are taking place. That is why it is not a way to go along with the increase in penalties which the Radical Left has just intended to take on board when it was not something that was the majority in the Freedom of Freedom Commission. Then there are proposals to create a central research and investigation unit to investigate the increase in the number of threats, develop new investigative methods and assist in the investigation work itself. We radically believe that it is really important that we examine the increase in the number of threats and that we are getting much closer to this than we are today, but whether it should be a special investigation unit for this type of threat and not for other threats, we on the part of the Radical Left need to know more about whether other countries, for example, have experience with it, and so on, before we can agree that this requires a unique entity. The same applies when SF proposes to develop a plan for better administration of victims of threats in cooperation with the police. We would also like to see it a little closer there. So, on the whole, a big chumbsup up to the problem from here, with which the Radical Left is very much in agreement. We will do a great deal, and we believe that this issue of enforcement in particular is important, and that is why we support the intention, but we do not expect to support the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154205	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154228	As Mrs Rosa Lund cannot be here, on behalf of her, I would like to express the views of the Enhedslisten. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the proposers that the increasing number of threats notifications and thus probably the increasing number of threats are deeply worrying. It is, in fact, a barrier to democratic dialogue. A study by the Institute for Human Rights also points out that hateful speeches and threats in the debate tracks on the Internet mean that many, especially women, are abstaining from the public debate. This is a major democratic problem which we in the Enhedslist take very seriously. That is why we feel that we can immediately endorse two of the three components contained in this proposal: firstly, the creation of a central research and investigation unit and, secondly, the development of a plan for better administration of authority in relation to victims. We think this is a very good proposal which we can vote for without further investigation. There remains the question of tightening the penal framework in section 266 of the Penal Code from 2 years to 4 years in prison. We have a few comments to make on this. First of all, we really think that two years of unconditional imprisonment is actually a rather serious punishment for making threats. There we have to discuss whether the penal framework is being used and such things, but two years of unconditional imprisonment for making threats that are not being implemented is, after all, a relatively violent punishment. We're just talking about threats that remain threats. If we are talking about implementation or attempts to implement it, it is quite different paragraphs that we are over in and a much stricter penalty framework. Secondly, is there any evidence that a punishment in this area will limit the extent of threats? That is what must be the purpose. The aim must surely be to limit the extent of threats, because if we have exactly the same number of victims afterwards, what has been the purpose? It is usually an important element, at least for us, that you have an idea that something will work preventively before you simply decide to increase the penalty. We will certainly not rule out the fact that this is the case, although we also have some doubts as to whether it is true, and we are also suggesting in the questions that we will consider that very many of these threats are actually made infect and are not thought through. That is why it is not certain that there will be an immediate consideration of penalties in the situation, as opposed to a more organised crime, such as money laundering, or whatever. But all right, you gotta check that out. Thirdly, if it now turns out that raising the penalty for threats will not help, if it is, as in the case of the assessment, should we increase it further if up to two years is not enough? Should it be more, 6 years, 8 years, 10 years? And why not, if it doesn't matter about the effect anyway. And what about raising the penalty against other penalties in the system? You're just gonna raise them, too? At any rate, it must be obvious to everyone that there must be some relationship between the length of punishment for threats and then for threats that are being implemented. There must be some kind of situation where the latter is being punished considerably more severely than the first. So if we just raise the first one, it must somehow have consequences for the second. What is the context? The comments made by the proposal do not deal with these issues, and there are some issues that we would like to discuss in greater detail in committee. On this basis, therefore, we can only vote in favour of two thirds of the proposal, and that is a step on the way. The latter will have to wait until we have these questions examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154622	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154637	With this motion for a resolution, the SF proposes that before the end of the year the government should put forward a draft law that strengthens the criminal framework for violation of Articles 266 to 4 years of the Criminal Code in cases where the threat is caused by the victim's attachment to or apostasy from a religion, a community of opinion or political conviction, or is intended to prevent the victim from using his freedom of expression. In addition, it proposes the creation of a new unit to investigate the area and assist in the investigation work. Freedom of expression is one of the core elements of a democracy. Without freedom of expression, no democracy. Unfortunately, we have seen undemocratic forces trying to put an end to our freedom of expression. We should never accept that. That is why I would also like to thank the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. There is a clear need for us to get involved in this area. Unfortunately, we have heard too many times stories about people who are subjected to threats and harassment on the basis of their religion or political affiliation. It is very worrying that such anti-democratic behaviour is gaining ground in our society. We must never accept that. That is why it is also important that we in Parliament send out a clear signal to anti-Democrats that we will not put up with their behaviour and that they will be severely hit. Making threats to other people is serious, but when the threat comes, as a result of a person's exercising his or her rights to freedom of expression and religion, it should be an aggravating circumstance. The strengthening of the penal framework will above all have a preventative effect which will prevent anti-Democrats from making threats. In addition, the proposal will also help the perpetrators to be punished more in line with the seriousness of the crime they commit. It is also freedom of religion when one opts out of a religion. So all of this, conservatively speaking, we can support and support. However, SF also mentions the creation of a new research and investigation unit. We Conservatives cannot support that part of the proposal. We do not think this is the right way to solve this problem. In total, we support the Conservative idea of raising the penalty framework, but we cannot support the remaining part of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154931	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124154947	Freedom of expression is under the pressure of left-wing extremists and of violent Muslims, and so much so that journalists, politicians and debaters who take the lead in criticising Islam live with constant police protection and that many Danes fear to interfere in the public debate. Threats to freedom of expression are poisonous to our society, because without a sense of being able to draw, say or write what you mean and think, public debate is weakened and thus the opportunity to participate in democracy and move society in a better direction. We are talking about the violent veto, that is to say, those who threaten violence can obtain a veto and thus power over others by threatening people to silence. The violent veto cannot and must not be accepted in a free society. Therefore, the state must ensure that every citizen can speak freely. And we, as a society, must back each other up when those who make legal utterances are violated with threats to life, even when they disagree or find expressions indifferent or even provocative. In New Citizens we believe that punishment has a preventive effect, and that is why we also believe that the penalty for threats to freedom of expression must be increased and, of course, that foreigners who threaten Danes on their lives and threaten Danes to silence must be released consistently and after the first sentence. We also hope that we can jointly give priority to threats to fundamental freedoms than they are given priority in the police's handling of various cases today. Finally, we have an appeal, perhaps mostly to the left of the Parliamentary Chamber, but also to those who sit a little over the middle, since there are a few more people on the left today than should be done if it were for the new citizens: if our fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, equality between the sexes or freedom of religion for that matter are not to be put under further pressure, it would be extremely useful to stop the influx of people who do not respect these values; people who come from cultures where death, violence or harassment are involved; those who criticise religions; those who express themselves politically; or even women have a voice in society. And it would also be quite useful to demonstrate to a greater extent those foreigners who show clear disrespect for these values in terms of threatening others on life. In the SF's motion for a resolution, for which we would like to thank others, there are two elements: there is the penalty, and then there is the part about a special research and investigation unit. We are in favour of the punishment, but we are a little more doubtful about the special unit. We would like to discuss this during the committee procedure and to know what the arguments for it are. Personally, I am of the opinion that the more you specialize in the police in specific groups, the harder it will be for them to be flexible in relation to the challenges of everyday life with all kinds of crime. Conversely, we must also say that at the moment this kind of threat seems to dampen the public debate in our society. It has major consequences for other countries and, if we do not get it in time, it can leave some traces in our culture which can be very difficult to get rid of. In other words, we can end up in a situation where we have freedom of expression on paper, but not in reality, and we must prevent that at all costs. So with those words, New Citizens can back the proposal, and we cannot just back it up; we can also say that we are very pleased that the SF has put forward this proposal. It means a lot to us, and it will and can mean a lot to our society. I hope that this is a sign that we can also have some of these worthwhile discussions across party lines in the future, because it is not only freedom of expression, it is also freedom of religion, it is also gender equality, etc. that is under pressure to a degree that we have not seen before. And there I also have a little hope that the SF based on what has been said earlier can be included in that debate. In those words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124155517	Thanks to New Citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124155527	Thank you. Freedom of expression in Denmark is seriously threatened in these years and has actually been the last decade, or perhaps even a little longer. There are people who make a living by speaking, writing and entertaining, who do not today dare to make fun of certain things, writing critically about certain things and exhibiting certain things, because they fear and even have reason to fear for their lives and health if they do so. And the worst part isn't even that you have reason to fear for your own life and health. I actually think a lot of people can handle that. But if you are also in a family, if you have children, if you have a spouse, it is not only a person that can potentially suffer; you also take responsibility with your participation in the public debate on your behalf, for example. so that most people, no matter how brave they are on their own behalf, are hit very hard and can shy away from saying things and writing things that they would otherwise have said. This is particularly about radical Islam. This has to be said because we in the Left in the Folketing have heard today that it is like all sorts of groupings that threaten freedom of expression. It is true that you can also take part in the debate on gender equality or you can take part in the debate on how mink should be handled in coronatides, and have harsh remarks and even threats. It must be condemned, and it is unacceptable and so on, but I am aware that there are no participants in the equality debate who live under police protection. I am also aware of no participants in the debate on how to deal with mink living under police protection. The people who live under police protection in Denmark are some who have spoken critically, teasing or fun about Islam. That's where we use our police resources. And then I think we may have some key members of government and parliament who are also under protection because they fear that they will be attacked by rabid left-wings out on Nørrebro and the like. That is the real threat today. That is why we very much welcome the SF's proposal to double the penalties in this area, because we do not think that two years of punishment is enough to have been punished enough for it, that not only has action been taken against a specific person who now feels threatened and does not dare to express his opinion, but has done so against the whole society. All standup comedians hold back from making fun of Mohammed and Islam. All politicians are considering whether they can stand to speak in the immigration debate, whether they should be rapporteur for foreigners and the like, because it may be an unpleasant place to be. That is why we think that, for example, there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. a maximum penalty of up to 4 years instead of 2 years is the right way to go. That is why we can support the resolution because of this. However, we have some concerns about the fact that we need a special police investigation unit dealing with these things. Like Mrs Pernille Vermund, do I see it that if we hire ten people to deal with this and they do not really have anything to do for some months of the year, they should not be able to deal with anything else during that time because they are therefore employed to investigate freedom of expression threats? I therefore believe more in flexibility in this area. However, I understand from the Minister for Justice that we can vote in favour of resolutions, even though we are in favour of only half of them. And if that is the way it is, I think we will vote in favour of it as well. Because we are in favour of at least half of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124155947	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160006	Thank you for the floor. It was a very positive round, I think. First of all, thank you to the Minister for Justice for recognising the need to do something and, indeed, to do something, and thanks to the rapporteurs from all the other parties, who have also supported the motion for a resolution in various ways. The last time this proposal was put forward, because it is a re-submission, the Minister, who was then conservative, would like to wait for the Freedom of expression commission. After all, in the spring, there were no real initiatives from there, unfortunately, which have found their way to legislation. At that time, it was also pointed out that, if this were to be the case, special efforts were to be made to enforce more effectively threats to those who use their legal freedom of expression, it was at home in the police negotiations, and I am well aware of this in the comments made here today, namely that when it comes to the special investigation unit, we are more divided. To the Liberal Alliance, I would say that they are already flexible in some of the police units. Among other things: I know that even if you can work with social dumping and lorries, it is not a barrier to being put into a patrol car. So I guess a solution would have been found. I would say that there is a problem; there is no doubt about that, and more have been mentioned here today. I think the death threats are the most serious threats, but there is also bullying and harassment, which may not necessarily come under threat, but these are some of the things that the Danes themselves mention causing them to refrain from taking part in the public debate. And that could lead to self-censorship. Epinion has actually in a survey mapped out that 40 per cent. Danes, despite a desire to interfere in a debate, have refrained from expressing themselves on social media, and I think that is a really, really big problem. So it's nice that the Minister will look at the punishment. These are violent attacks on people who are standing up in public debates over these years, and I simply do not think it is right to be able to intimidate people to stop participating. There is enough today for someone too short a distance between thought and action on the Internet, and the digital possibilities have made it much easier to bother and threaten today than it has ever been before, and by raising the penalty, I hope you can put in a filter compared to that finger that hits the send button and stop some of this serious digital violence, which I would say is taking place online. I find it awkward to experience through the coverage that Berlingske has had of it, how the women who take part in the equality debate are threatened with rape and other unpleasant things, and it is probably true, as the Liberal Alliance says, that none of them live under police protection, and I actually believe that many of them find it difficult at all to get it recognised as threats when that happens. But this is also a question, for example. Sara Omar, author of the book "Death Laundry " and who has told of problems with social control, but who ends up in need of police protection because she is threatened with life. This is also happening to members of parliament, and in SF we have seen that Halime Oguz, one of our members of parliament, is also being threatened because she has participated in a television programme where she has told about life in some parallel societies, and that is a huge problem. So one thing is the penalty... it sounds like we're going to target there... something else is enforcement, which also needs to be more effective. We know, of course, that the greatest factor in preventing crime is the risk of discovery and therefore punishment cannot stand alone, and that is why we had thought of a special investigation unit. We will not get that right here, but then I think we will have something to talk about in the police negotiations, in terms of how we can prioritise that effort. To DF, I'd like to say yes to the fact that we're going to clarify the penalties. I think we should do that in committee and yes to find out how we're going to do a better investigation. We need to find a way to get that done. Then, at the end of the debate, I would like to say that I actually think that there is a problem with this issue of identity abuse, which was one of the things that hit Anders Kronborg. In relation to intimidating him, so he might not say anything in this pending mink debate, I also think I do not know, but it is obvious to think that it comes in the wake of the fact that harassing someone by ordering things in their name or registering for things that they themselves do not know have been done is an aggressive way of trying to intimidate someone who wants to express themselves in the public debate. And in principle it is not just about politicians; there are actually a lot of ordinary people who experience false profiles being created or things being done in their name. So I also hope that we can somehow agree that such identity theft/abuse should be criminalised. So, in conclusion, I would just like to thank you very much for the debate. I think we have taken at least one important step in the fight against violence and threats to digital midis. We simply do not need people to be squeezed out of the public debate. It is harmful to democracy and, of course, it should not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160614	There's one question. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160618	Thank you. When we support the motion for a resolution in the New Citizens' Party, it is because it says that it is a question of tightening up the penal framework in Article 266 of the Criminal Code on threats, i.e. that it is an already illegal situation. However, the rapporteur mentions bullying on the Internet, and there I think we are beginning to confuse some things, because what is a legal expression from me or from the rapporteur, which may be a criticism of a ruler, a religion or some ideas, can be seen as bullying for others. So I hope that the rapporteur stands by what is stated in the motion for a resolution and that this is what we support and that what you then feel as offensive or offensive or as bullying, you have to park somewhere else, so we have to take that into another debate. It's just for clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160719	Well, I can reassure the questioner that this proposal alone is about threats. I mentioned bullying and harassment simply because Epinion has carried out a study which shows that it is also some of the things that prevent some from taking part in the public debate. So that is not part of the proposal here. Then I have a wish that we should also look at identity theft, and we will see if we can get together on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160744	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160802	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124160828	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by stating that I have a great deal of sympathy with the commitment and interest of the proposers in this area. I agree with the proposers that in a democratic society it is absolutely essential that there is the necessary confidence in our intelligence services; that there is confidence that the intelligence services act within their powers and that they cooperate with the supervision that has to control them. At the same time, however, it is essential, in the interests of Denmark and the safety of the Danes, that there should be no dissemination of very sensitive information beyond what is absolutely necessary. Ultimately, it is about ensuring that Denmark continues to have well-functioning intelligence services and that the services can carry out the task that they are set up in the world to solve, namely to take care of the security of all of us. The balance between, on the one hand, ensuring confidence in the intelligence services and, on the other hand, preventing very sensitive information from spreading beyond what is absolutely necessary is, to put it mildly, difficult; I do not want to hide that. The motion for a resolution that we are debating today strikes into the difficult balance. Before explaining the government's position, I would like briefly to say a few words on the content of the resolution. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is, firstly, to impose on the government, during the current parliamentary year, the establishment of a whistleblower scheme for employees of the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service. The scheme is intended to ensure that employees are given the opportunity to make anonymous representations to either the independent supervision of the intelligence services or to the Parliamentary Committee on intelligence services, which is referred to daily as the Control Committee. The monitoring committee and the inspection committee shall at the same time be authorized to carry out an investigation into any cases brought to their attention by the system. Secondly, the motion for a resolution proposes that the government be required to ensure that the powers of supervision are extended so that it is empowered to control all aspects of the work of the Danish secret services. For the sake of good order, as the authors themselves point out, I must point out that a whistleblower scheme has already been set up in the Police Intelligence Service. However, the scheme does not provide for the possibility of reporting to the Supervisory Board of Intelligence or to the Control Committee, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. I can also see that the PET system is mentioned in the comments on the motion for a resolution so that the authors are aware of it. A general whistleblower scheme has been established in the Ministry of Defence to deal with unclassified cases. And as the Secretary of Defense has reported today, the Ministry of Defence has now launched a whistleblower scheme for the defense intelligence service in the short term, which can handle requests for classified cases. When I read the comments on the motion for a resolution, it is clear to me that the proposers are aware of the difficult balance between, on the one hand, ensuring confidence in intelligence services through supervision and transparency and, on the other hand, ensuring effective intelligence services, which requires closeness to their work and their working methods. The crucial question in this context will be whether the government agrees with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the system proposed in the motion for a resolution strikes the right balance. As you know, the government has already indicated, as part of the follow-up to the so-called FE case, which the proposers also mention in the motion for a resolution, that, in parallel with and in the light of the forthcoming investigation into certain aspects of the defence intelligence service in other tracks, the criticisms made by the supervision will be followed up. In this context, the Minister for Defence has already indicated that the Ministry of Defence will address the recommendations on inter alia: the establishment of a whistleblower scheme. In addition, as part of the follow-up, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence will also look at the framework for the supervision of the intelligence services and the relationship between the Control Committee, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice, including in relation to supervision. Of course, both the defense intelligence service and the police intelligence service are working in this context. The question of establishing any external whistleblower arrangements in the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service, including the details of such arrangements, and a position on the extent of supervision's competence should therefore, in the view of the government, await the outcome of the work. I think it is absolutely crucial that we now have a solid and thoroughly worked-out basis to stand on when we need to lay down new rules in this area. This is an area which, as I said at the outset, is very important for Denmark and the safety of the Danes. It is pointless that, despite good intentions, we should have rules that unintentionally compromise the work of the intelligence services. We cannot risk gambling with the safety of the Danes in this way. As Minister of Justice, I can't do that. Conversely, as I said earlier, I agree that in a democratic society it is absolutely essential that there is the necessary confidence in our intelligence services and that there is confidence that the intelligence services act within their powers and cooperate with the supervision that has to control them. We owe it to each other and the Danes to be thorough and careful when we, as politicians, make decisions that can affect everyone's confidence and security. That is why, as I have said, the government believes that we should await the outcome of the follow-up work on supervision's criticism in the so-called FE case before finally establishing the framework for whistle-blower arrangements in the intelligence services and the scope of supervision's competence. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Having said that, however, I would like to promise that the considerations and considerations set out in the motion for a resolution will be included in the work already undertaken by the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161502	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161505	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister thinks that Norway, for example, is gambling with confidence in their intelligence services, because it is no secret that Norway is something more advanced than us when it comes to the powers of their supervision and what they can investigate. This does not just apply to the processing of personal data by their intelligence services. You can also look at operations and agents. So does the Minister think that Norway is gambling with confidence in their intelligence services?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161538	I shall not judge that, because some of what we have said will be included in the work that we will be looking at to revise the FE and PET law will be how it works in other countries. So I think we should get inspiration from, among other things. Norway and probably also a lot of other good countries. In general, it must be said that Norway appears to be a credible and secure member of the Western Defence Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161612	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161613	I am pleased that the Minister says that Norway is a credible member of the Western Security Alliance. I fully agree with that, and so I would just like to ask the Minister what prevents us from giving our supervision the same powers as those we know from Norway and, for that matter, other comparable countries. Is there nothing in this motion for a resolution that the Minister can support immediately today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161638	It may well be that there are elements on which I can support them. What is my point is not whether what is here is good or not. I have also said that there are parts of what will be included in the further work and that this is concerned with the difficult balance. I just think that we should be careful not to throw ourselves into making that balance before we are sure that we have the full basis for decision, especially when we risk gambling with the safety of the Danes if we miss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161700	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161705	Thank you for the floor. I actually hear that the Minister is saying that the matter is not completely closed, but that it may be something that we are going to discuss, and I think that is a good thing. It may be that I did not listen properly, but there is something I need the Minister to say a few words about. Now much has been said about the FE case, and this is really an old SF proposal that came into being long before it arose, and actually it was put forward in the spring, but we never had time to deal with it, because then the corona came along, and then it was taken off the table. So it has actually been updated by the FE case, but is really about another case. But can the Minister say anything about whether we are only going to look at the Defence Intelligence Service or whether we are really going to look at PET as well? You have not, of course, been involved in the FE case, but I do think that a new comprehensive arrangement is needed, of course, which will apply to both services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161802	We're going to look at both. As I recall, a revision of the PET law was in fact put on the legislative programme for the parliamentary year in which we have entered, but the proposal is that we have to revise both the FE law and the PET law, and of course some of what we have to do in this context is also to consider what the role of supervision is, and it should be, if not completely identical, but at least rather aligned between the two different services we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161835	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161838	I am delighted because I believe that we need to look at the overall system. I am, of course, a little sad that the Minister is not just saying: that is a fantastic suggestion. But this proposal was actually made in the wake of Berlingske writing a series of stories about an alleged agent who was in Spain, and what I noticed in these articles was that there were apparently people in the services who were dissatisfied with the case or something like that was at least what the article described. Does the Minister not think it is a problem if there are employees who will have to go to the press with their frustrations? Wouldn't it be better if we had an external whistleblower system so we could get people to go there instead? Obviously, if it's internal, you don't want to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124161937	What I am saying now has nothing to do with comments, opinions or with the case referred to, which has been mentioned in Berlingske, so I do not consider whether what has been written, said or done in that case is right or wrong. It's completely detached from that case. I think that some of what we need to look at is, of course, how we ensure that a pressure valve is made so that people who may work in our services can also be able to get rid of information. What we just need to be aware of is that it is extremely sensitive information or it can be, and that is why we need to find a different framework from the framework that applies in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162016	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162034	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for presenting this proposal and, as the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution has said, it has been put forward before the pending one, we can call the FE case, which has, of course, also updated the discussion on supervision and the recommendations that come from supervision. This is why it is also a question of finding a balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we have some intelligence services that can function and that are part of the important foundation for the safety of the Danes, and, on the other hand, of course we also ensure that there is an opportunity to control that work and that this work takes place within the framework of the law. It is, of course, the whole foundation for living and working in a democratic society, that is to say, that we have confidence in our intelligence services, that we have confidence in each other and that we trust that the law applies everywhere. It is, of course, also crucial, given the second case we discussed here in the Folketing, and the framework for the work now under way, that the confidence should not stand in the way of our intelligence services operating and operating confidentially. It is, after all, like the essence of having these intelligence services that they operate in secret for the benefit of all of us. And, as the Minister also mentioned, the government has indicated that, in parallel with and in the light of the investigation into the FE that is under way, the role of supervision will also be looked at, including those issues which are also addressed in the motion for a resolution. Therefore, although this motion for a resolution has been tabled before the FE case, it is still topical to follow up the study that has been initiated, and I think it is to be welcomed to the authors that the Minister for Defence has today set up a whistle-blower system which also provides for a system of information which is classified or secret in the short term. With that said, the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal, but is working on the track that has been laid.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162258	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions, so we move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162315	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here is about establishing a whistle-blower system for employees of the defence and police intelligence services, and the motion for a resolution also wants the powers of supervision to be extended to allow them to control all aspects of the work of the intelligence services, for example. their operations and agent activities. It is crucial for the Left that we have some well-functioning intelligence services that have the opportunity to act in a secure and confidential space. Our intelligence services are a vital function to ensure the safety of the Danes and Denmark, because there is a real and serious terrorist threat against Europe and against Denmark. At the same time, it is important that there is confidence in the Danish intelligence services in the population, and we have unfortunately seen some cases mentioned in public. I am not going to go into them, but we can at least see that in some places it has cast doubt on the working methods of the intelligence services. And that does not make it much easier that, by its very nature, it is extremely difficult for intelligence services to comment on the specific cases in the press. That is why it is also essential for the public confidence that supervision needs to be able to exercise the necessary legal control over the respect of the law by the services and the legal certainty of the citizens and the freedoms of all of us. That is why we in the Left are open to discuss whether we have the right balance of supervisory powers, but we are not prepared to rush into this issue. The matter is simply too important for that. And I could make a lot of comments about rushing at the moment, but I shall refrain from doing so. In the Danish Parliament there is broad support for our investigation of the Defence Intelligence Service, the supervision of it, and this broad support has also resulted in the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence saying in the same context that they want to look at the framework for supervision and the relationship with the Parliamentary Control Committee. This means, moreover, that the evaluation of the PET law is dragging on. I believe that the Minister also mentioned this earlier because we are awaiting clarification of this whole process. We in the Left believe that we should wait for this commission of inquiry to carry out its work and we would also like to know what conclusions the government is drawing from it. It is important to stress that it is not because we reject that something can happen in this area, but when it comes to our intelligence services and the security of the realm, we in the Left do not think that we should take any hasty decisions. It is important that we do the work properly and thoroughly and not just try to look energetic and it is a comment on this matter. So, of course, we are positive about looking at this balance when the study is completed and the conclusions are presented. And with that I can say that the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162638	There is a question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162641	Thank you. In other words, we do not rush anything by moving forward in some of the directions of this motion for a resolution. After all, we have been discussing intelligence services for many, many years and thank God for it, because it is always an exciting debate. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether he believes that there is doubt that the intelligence services are acting in a secure and confidential space if a whistle-blower system is introduced which has been set up here; if there is an annual meeting between the Control Committee and the Intelligence Supervisory Board; or if supervision is given the same powers as in Norway, for example. Is there any doubt that the intelligence services are operating in a secure and confidential space?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162730	The wise answer to that question is that there is broad support here in the Folketing for us to have examined this in depth. I indicated on behalf of the Left just now that we are ready to look deep into whether the balances are the right ones and whether we have the right tools to control. We are, in fact, open to discussion about this. But the wise answer is that things have to be taken in the right order. Now we'll see what the investigation shows. We also want to know what conclusions the government is making on behalf of the investigation. And then we will have to decide what needs to be done. That's the right way to do it. Because this is extremely important. I'm not kidding. Therefore, in respect of the importance of the task, things must be taken in the right order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162825	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162827	Thank you. Now I got the wise answer. Then I would like to hear the position of the Left. After all, the rapporteur of the Left said that it is important that when decisions are taken, there should be no doubt that the intelligence services are acting in a secure and confidential space. That is why I should like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that there is doubt that the intelligence services are acting in a secure and confidential space if a whistleblower system is introduced as proposed here; if there is an annual meeting between the Control Committee and the Intelligence Supervisory Board; and if supervision is given the same powers as those in Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162900	But the position of the Left is crystal clear. The position of the Left is that we are dealing with the extremely wise answer that the rapporteur of the Left gave just now, namely that this should be done in the right order. There is a broad political desire to examine this in depth. When we have examined it and we have the conclusions, we are, in fact, ready to look at whether the balance of supervisory powers is the right one today. And it has to happen with this in mind that it is important, on the one hand, that there is legal control over compliance with laws and regulations and, on the other hand, that these secret services need a confidential and secure space in order to be able to carry out their work, which is extremely important for Denmark and for the security of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162945	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward. It's sir. Peter Skaarup, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124162958	Thanks to the SF for making this proposal. It's in two parts. This is partly about a whistleblower system and partly about increasing supervision of intelligence services. There is no doubt that the recent case of Defence Intelligence has been very, very serious. In fact, it is a scandal if any of the issues that have been raised in the media have its own merits, and it has its own course with the Commission that is being set up, and we are, of course, at the moment about to finalise the report in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Having said that, we must think very carefully when we make changes in the balances between supervision, intelligence services and political control in here at Christiansborg, which is why we believe that, together with the government, we need to discuss the issues associated with this more closely when we are on the other side of the Commission and the report which hopefully gives a better insight into what has actually happened in the matter which has been much discussed. One of the things that the Danish People's Party attaches so much importance to is that the intelligence services can work with what they are put in the world for. And for what are they put into the world? They are put in the world to protect the Danish people from terror, from threats, against enemies, against evil forces, which will destroy the life and values we have in Denmark and the Western countries. That is why we must also be extremely careful if we are to handicap the intelligence services in the ongoing work they are doing to protect us all from, for example. terror from the Islamic State. What we must not, under any circumstances, make happen when we deal with something in the Folketing such a random day in Parliament here with a coincidence, excuse the expression, motion for a resolution, is that we are just saying: well, that sounds very good; let us just implement it. We must not do so without considering what it actually means for the secret services to fight against the evil forces that threaten Denmark and our values. And it doesn't really take much. There are forces out there, the Islamic State and their minions around in Western society, which will be very bad for the completely ordinary common good Danish society that we have, where we meet and discuss, and where we resolve conflicts with words instead of with violence, and the society that we want to preserve. So if we just say just like SF, and it sounds promising with many of these comments, which are here in the resolution and in the remarks: OK, let us just implement it; that sounds very reasonable; let us just get a whistleblower system; let us just with the power of supervision check all parts of the intelligence services. If we do that, we may well shoot ourselves in the foot in relation to what we agreed on, or at least what I said I think we agree, namely to protect ourselves from evil forces around the world. So we have to take it all with a spruce of salt in relation to this motion for a resolution. That is really just what I am saying from the Danish People's Party. Then it is clear that on the other side of the Commission we need to look into whether the Norwegian scheme mentioned by the SF in the comments is better. It is also mentioned in the text of the proposal itself that supervision must be able to control all parts of the intelligence services. Is that reasonable? That sounds promising. The question is: do we believe that it is the Danish model? And do we believe that it is going to handicap our intelligence services in such a way that they cannot protect Denmark from terror, from evil forces, and cannot ensure the cooperation that we must also have with a number of other countries, which are our best friends, in combating terrorism and the Islamic State and such forces? If we believe that it is going to handicap us in relation to that work, we should not do so. Then we're not going to implement this proposal. So overall, the words of the Danish People's Party are: let us not handicap our intelligence services, because there is a slave case running in the media, and let us make sure that, instead of what it has done in recent months, the government does not fail in the future and in the future keeps its tongue straight in the face of the important work that is going on in our intelligence services, and let us back up all the good forces, the 99.9% that work wisely and well for the benefit of the Danish people in our intelligence services. Let us back all the good people in the defence and police forces who are making a fantastic effort to protect us from terrorism and the Islamic State. So thank you for the suggestion, but no thanks in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163521	There are questions. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163523	Thank you for those words. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Peter Skaarup does not think that supervision has actually proved its justification. We can at least see in the annual reports that sometimes it finds some things that need to be corrected, and I assume that this is being done in good time. But for me it actually shows that it has had a justification and that it was a good idea to do it when we agreed on it. So what I really just want to hear about is, uh, sir. Peter Skaarup does not think that we should then also give them the full package. Well, let them go into everything; then we can sleep calmly at night and know that somebody is watching this, knowing that they shouldn't of course put all these things before the public. It's in the nature of the services that you can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163620	Well, the Danish People's Party has been involved in supporting the supervision we have, and we will continue to do so, but it is clear that this whole matter, which Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has of course also followed, about the Defence Intelligence Service, is going to put some question marks on the supervisory work as well: is it running in the right way? Has there been anything overkill in the way you've dealt with some things? After all, we had a consultation not long ago with the Minister for Defence, in which the Minister for Defence suddenly announced that the way in which the supervision had expressed itself in the press release which came out here in August was a great surprise and frustration for the whole system. What was that frustration? Where was that reaction not expected? Has supervision perhaps gone further than should be done here? There's a lot of questions going up in the air, and the government doesn't answer anything. The government does not really want to give out the language, so I think that we need answers from the government and from the Minister for Defence, not least in this case, before we find out whether supervision does things the right way, and indeed whether supervision should have more power. That's what the SF wants here. Should supervision be given more power? Well, it may be, but then we have to have an answer to what has actually happened, because it is not necessarily only positive. So it's gonna be interesting to look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163753	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163755	But Mr. Peter Skaarup knows that there are things that cannot be answered when it comes to intelligence services. After all, supervision will never be able to tell to the full what is their motives and their supervision and their controls, and so it must be, because then we know that there is someone who sort of realizes with these things, and then we really don't have to worry about the rest. But I think I remember that Mr. Peter Skaarup was in Norway when we heard about the Norwegian model of supervision of intelligence services, and I just have to ask Mr. Skaarup. Peter Skaarup, if he thinks there were some problems with the Norwegian model, which should make it, for example. could not work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163837	It is true that I was there when we were looking at the Norwegian model, and there are not necessarily any problems in that. Norway is a country with which we compare ourselves in many ways in relation to various aspects of defence and security policy. They may have suffered other threats to the north than what we have so much focus on, but okay. No, what matters here is whether or not we believe that the Danish model is the right one. We have to find a Danish solution to this, and there we are just not ready to say in the Danish People's Party that supervision is doing so fantastic well and everything is good, also with the government, about the cooperation that needs to be with supervision, and that we are prepared to give them significantly more power after a Danish model. But we would very much like to look at it when the Commission is finished; then we will have to assess it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163927	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124163936	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for raising this, which we are also in the process of focusing on, regarding intelligence services based on the current FE case. As several speakers have said, it is always a consideration to take into account when discussing intelligence services, namely to take the necessary account of the balance between security, confidence in Denmark as a partner in the Western Security Alliance and, on the other hand, confidence in the intelligence services of the population. For it is beyond doubt that we have intelligence services that do a great and important job every day for a safe and secure Denmark. The proposals outlined here in the motion for a resolution act, among other things, on: on a whistleblower scheme for Defence Intelligence and Police Intelligence staff, and the Radical Left can fully support this. We have been able to see in the present case that it is quite appropriate that it should also be possible for the Control Committee and for the Monitoring of Intelligence Services. There is also a proposal to allow independent supervision in the future to control several parts of the work of the intelligence services. This is something we know from other countries, such as Norway, as has been the case in the debate here, but the UK and others also allow more areas to be controlled. For today it is the case that independent supervision can only control the processing of personal data by the services, etc., whereas the other part, such as operations and agent activities, is exempt from supervision. The Radical Left believes that there are many good offers in this motion for a resolution which we can support. We are therefore in favour of this and expect to be able to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164147	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164201	Thank you. Our rapporteur on this subject, Mrs Lund, is still unable to be present, but I will make her views known. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal. Clearly, there is a need for stronger control over the intelligence services, and there must be better protection for the brave and conscientious whistleblowers who dare to quit when something is wrong. This is crucial for our democracy and legal certainty. In the Enhedslisten we have been fighting for many years to establish a whistleblower scheme in the public sector, especially in relation to the defence and police, but also wider. It should be more obvious than ever that this is a very good idea, both when we look at the scandal in the Defence Intelligence Service and when we look at for example. Danske Bank and the swindle of aid packages and stuff like that. That is why it is also one of Enhedslisten's important demands in the Finance Act negotiations that we should strengthen the conditions for whistleblowers and create a national whistleblower scheme. Because it is all too often that people are afraid to come forward with knowledge of illegal practices because they can lose their jobs and all too often they have a huge impact on those who have followed their consciences and have stood up. Here we can ensure that people have an anonymous and safe place to approach, and we must ensure that there are skills to support employees if they, for example, are able to do so. is fired or threatened after revealing that something illegal is going on at their workplace. It is absolutely essential that there is sufficient independence if it is to work well. From Enhedslisten's side, we are pleased that the Secretary of Defense has listened and has at last started to use a whistleblower scheme in defence after the many fraud cases. However, it is still not independent enough in its design. The Minister has also announced that it will follow the supervision recommendations and establish an arrangement in relation to the Defence Intelligence Service. It is also very good, but here too it is necessary to ensure that there is the necessary independence. It is also the wish of the Enhedslisten, in relation to the supervision of the intelligence services, that it should be strengthened enormously. In fact, that is also why we are not included in the current agreement. We simply believe that it is too lax and that it is quite obvious to ensure that supervision can access all parts of the service's archives. Then there are a few things that we would like to ask ourselves: is that independent enough, and are there sufficient resources in the supervision to be the contact point for whistleblowers? We are thinking here of looking at a general strengthening of supervision and considering the purpose and a specialized whistleblower scheme. Finally, I would like to say something about future work. We are really disappointed that the SF has put itself behind a deeply inadequate and toothless investigation into the case of Defence Intelligence. On Thursday, the matter will be dealt with in the Danish Parliament and we have tabled a number of amendments from the Enhedslisten, among others. inspired by the criticism of the Institute for Human Rights, it therefore proposes that all the criticism of supervision be investigated and that the terms of reference of the investigation be put forward, so that we can actually have confidence that the matter will actually be dug. We hope that the SF will support the Enhedslisten's amendments, because we can certainly agree that the supervision of the intelligence services and the conditions for whistleblowers must be strengthened. However, we should also be able to agree that when all red lights blink, the cases must be properly examined and those responsible are held to account, and that does not happen if we just clap our heels together and silently let the Social Democrats and the Left make foxcakes about a study that is completely inadequate. But Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164551	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164558	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution from the SF, it is proposed that a whistleblower scheme be established for employees of the Defence and Police Intelligence Services and to extend the supervision of the powers of intelligence services to control. The Danish intelligence services employ many very skilled people, who each day help to ensure the safety and security of the Danes. We should be very happy and appreciate that. As an intelligence service, you work under very special conditions and conditions. It is essential that partners, sources and allies see that we live up to the confidence that is a prerequisite for having world-class intelligence services. With a whistleblower scheme proposed by the SF, this trust can be weakened, and we must not risk that. Because trust takes a long time to build with our allies, but it can also disappear in an instant. Every day, intelligence services balance between democratic transparency on the one hand and the need for confidentiality on the other. There is a clear need for our intelligence services to be monitored, that is important, but we also need to think about before we initiate initiatives in this area. For that, as the worst consequence, can have an impact on national security, and we must not gamble with the security of the nation. We would like to engage in dialogue on how to ensure proper control of our intelligence services, but we do not believe that the SF resolution is a solution. In addition, a statement will soon be launched in relation to what happened during the supervision this August this year, and let us wait and see what the statement brings. By the way, it is important that everything is not published, because, again, we are gambling with the security of our nation. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the SF motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164821	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is then Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124164837	Danish intelligence services must be able to work under the radar. This is absolutely crucial for the safety of the Danes. Sensitive information from our intelligence services should not end up in the wrong hands. This could damage our cooperation with our allies and thus the security of the Danes. On the other hand, the desire to strengthen security is based on citizens' legal certainty and on the possibility that we can be sure that the laws and regulations relating to intelligence services will also be respected. In connection with the pending FE case, we have agreed that a statement must be made which will, I hope, clarify the relationship between citizens' legal certainty and the supervisory powers and the work of the intelligence services. I have noted in the many consultations we have had with the Minister for Defence that the Minister for Defence has repeatedly said that we have a good and skilled intelligence service and that she feels secure in the intelligence service. When you sit as a small party and therefore do not sit on the Control Committee, you do not have the direct insight into what is coming forward, either in the statement we have launched at the present time, or in what else the supervision has made of notes in addition to what comes out to the public. However, the part of the statement to which we have access will be looked at in New Citizens' Day and with the overall consideration that the Danes' security for us is above all. Our relationship with our allies is absolutely essential for us, as a small country, to be a free country in the future too, so that our balance will never end in a situation where we will have more supervision and more openness at the expense of security and therefore also freedom for citizens. On this basis, we cannot support the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165104	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165112	Thank you. For the Liberal Alliance, freedom and security go hand in hand. We find it difficult to imagine security without freedom, and we find it difficult to imagine a freedom without security, which is why we have a little difficulty with firm statements that we are putting one over the other. Because we think that both are a prerequisite for each other. We welcome the proposal from the SF and we think it is a good idea, as the SF suggests, that whistleblowers in the intelligence services can go to the intelligence services' supervision and report on things that are going on in the intelligence services that they think are illegal. We believe that this is a good idea within the framework with which supervision is currently concerned. In other words, if you turn to things that are within the scope of supervision today, then we think it is a good idea. We need to examine further whether it is also a good idea to extend supervision over more things than we are dealing with today. Here we are worried about whether it would risk making it problematic for the intelligence services to protect the Danes' security, but we would like to delve into that further before we finally take a position on how we will vote on the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165255	We thank the rapporteur and turn to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165309	Thank you for the debate. It seems that this is the same as today's proposal by the good revenants, and that is also true of this motion for a resolution from the SF. It has been put forward in the past, and the proposal has not, as some might see it, been made in the wake of the fact that the intelligence services' oversight has brought charges against the defense intelligence service. But it has to be said that that particular case has brought the debate on supervision up to date. The proposal is a re-submission of a proposal from 2015 and, in fact, it was also retabled in February of this year, but it was not dealt with because of corona. What made me make the proposal was actually a series of articles which were in Berlingske in the spring, telling of a possible agent for the Danish services, who should have been convicted in Spain for duties he should have performed for them. Now we cannot know what is in this case, because Danish services never confirm or deny such stories, and this is not the first time that such a case hits the media from time to time. However, I do not expect, if history were true, that the services would then put it forward, but I expect there to be supervision which, when they read the press, would be able to take up such a case and say: we are investigating it to make sure that the law is not broken in that case. I think it is crucial for confidence that we can have a certainty that when there are things that cannot be put forward, there are some with the right competences that can look through it. It would also ensure that a possible case could remain confidential if the Danish services were to be able to do what they have to do. After all, we have a great need for them to be able to operate and maintain security for all of us both in Denmark, but of course also abroad. In fact, the articles on this alleged agent showed that there should have been talk with sources in the intelligence services, which would seem to be angry about how this case was handled and it would not be possible if it were correct. That is why we have proposed that employees in the services should have a valve for their frustrations and suspicions, and that is where we have given particular thought to the whistleblower schemes that could have, for example. a direct right of appeal to the Intelligence Supervisory Authority. Then it was ensured that it was in a closed system where it would be looked for, and then it could be investigated without compromising the work of the intelligence services, and then the people could sleep calmly because then they knew it was under control. It is therefore very gratifying that the Minister for Defence has announced that such an external whistleblower system is now being set up, but I also think that this should apply to PET. They have one today, but it is internal and, of course, we think it should also be external. Then there is the supervision of the intelligence services themselves. The core of this is the control of personal data, which means that supervision cannot actually go into all areas of service work. If the case referred to in Berlingske were to have been true, it would not actually be possible to control it if personal data had not been processed. I think that is a problem. I think that supervision should be allowed to go into all aspects of the work of the services. Finally, perhaps I also owe it to mention the FE case, which perhaps should also fill a little bit here, because in the press release issued by the Intelligence Supervisory Authority on charges against the Defence Intelligence Service for having broken the law, supervision actually says something in the sense that there are things that they cannot investigate because it is outside their legal powers. In other words, it seems that there is at least a core of something they cannot investigate, and my agenda is really just: let us clear out all the barriers, let supervision be able to investigate everything. Then I think I might just owe it to the Enhedslisten to answer. Now I did not put a question to the Enhedslisten rapporteur because the Enhedslisten has not been asked with the usual rapporteur in this area, and it would not be very nice to put a direct question to the rapporteur who has been sent out today. But Enhedslisten called the investigation initiated on the FE case toothless and criticizes SF. The Enhedslisten knows very well, because Enhedslisten has himself been on the Control Committee, that SF cannot tell us what that study contains either, because, as I said, you are bound by professional secrecy about what you hear and see there. So it is for SF, and so it was for Enhedslisten, as Enhedslisten had that space for a period of time. So I'm not gonna drive that around anymore. However, I have a renewed hope, because I actually saw the Minister of Justice as slightly positive that you can look at some elements later when we've learned more about what's up and down in this FE case. I hope we succeed in that. In any case, I would say that the SF will stick to this agenda, so I hope we will not be standing here again in six months' time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165912	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165946	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124165952	Without offending anyone, it may be said that L 82 is a discretionary mix of many elements relating to corporate law. Amendment of company law, amendment of the combination of company law and annual accounting law, and the law authorising temporary derogations from corporate and accounting obligations in connection with covid-19. However, the very concrete feature of L 82 is a more relaxed requirement for registration from entrepreneurship companies to equity companies and a temporary derogation from the provisions on physical attendance at the general meeting of companies' statutes or similar agreements in connection with covid-19. It is an expression of a very broad and very positive will to provide good opportunities for people who want to set up their own business, that is, what lies behind today's legislative proposal. It was also behind the legislation on the ivs, i.e. entrepreneurship companies, since only DKK 1 was required. in order to establish such a thing. However, it turned out to be too loose a framework and many resources have been spent on cleaning up the system. With L 82, we make it easier to re-register an entrepreneurial company to a joint-stock company in the event of a residual capital injection, which is the difference between the registered share capital of the entrepreneurial company and the minimum share capital of the joint-stock company, which is currently DKK 40,000. The period for re-registration shall be extended by 6 months from 15 April to 15 October 2021 in order to allow for the use of the new re-registration option. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and we are happy to take an active part in the committee's deliberations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124170204	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124170211	Thank you. Entrepreneurship companies were a well-intentioned initiative to make it even easier to start business in Denmark. Unfortunately, the evaluation of the scheme back in 2018 showed that there were too many problems with entrepreneurship companies. Too many companies went bankrupt or were forcibly dissolved on behalf of taxpayers, and the tax losses were greater than those of sole or limited companies. Therefore, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament in 2019 chose to abolish the entrepreneurship companies, and the existing entrepreneurship companies should have been converted into equity companies by 15 April 2021 at the latest. In August, a broad majority agreed to extend by six months the period for converting or closing entrepreneurship companies. That makes sense, especially in a corona situation. At the same time, we agreed to relax the way in which an entrepreneurial company can be transformed into a joint venture, so that the contribution to the company must be increased, so that it corresponds to a joint venture: DKr 40,000. This ensures a real equality of opportunity similar to if the entrepreneur had at the time chosen to set up his business as a joint venture. We in the Left think this is a quite sensible solution, which means that there is no risk of closing otherwise well-functioning entrepreneurship companies which may have deficits during the start-up period but which have a sound and sensible business plan and the prospect of delivering profits in the years to come. During the negotiations, we in the Left wanted to lower the capital requirement for equity companies. In fact, we have the second highest capital requirement in Europe to set up a company. It is not appropriate for the border to be so high when it is considerably lower in other European countries. We did not get through with that requirement in the negotiations, but it remains the ambition of the Left, and we actually think that the concrete proposal from, among others. Danish Entrepreneur Association for a capital requirement equivalent to the European average of DKK 8,000. with the possibility of partial deposits and personal liability for the balance is a very good proposal on what the capital requirement should look like in the future. The agreement we reached on 21 August also states that the parties note that in the autumn the government will open negotiations on initiatives aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship in Denmark. The parties see the need for concrete steps to make it easier for Danish entrepreneurs to establish themselves and run their business, as entrepreneurs help create jobs for the future, dynamics in business and growth in Denmark. It was a really, really smart part of that deal, but according to the calendar ends autumn in 1 week, and we haven't heard anything from the government yet. So either the government is getting very, very busy the next week or, unfortunately, the negotiations on an important area are moving further away, and we would like to regret that from the Left. I do not entirely share the view of the Socialist rapporteur that the draft law here was all good from the sea and a large bag of mixed candy. In fact, there are only two different kinds of candy in the draft law: that of entrepreneurship companies and then an authorisation for the Minister of Industry to be able to lay down rules for temporary derogation from the statutes of companies, for example in relation to the possibility of holding electronic general meetings, and not as a number of articles of association, namely that they should be physical general meetings. And even though there have been positive reports in the press in recent days about imminent vaccines against coronavirus, it makes sense for me to see good sense that the possibility of e.g. dismantling general meetings also applies electronically in 2021. So we in the Left can support the bill, but I would like to point out that the government has not delivered the promise in relation to the negotiations on entrepreneurship, including capital requirements as promised in the August agreement, and I therefore hope that the government will call for negotiations on this as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124170617	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124170630	Thank you. After all, we were young and children back in the 1970s, watching children's broadcasts on the only television channel we all had, and that was Denmark's Radio. We were forced into it, and there weren't many children's shows. But at least I remember Sally Sally, and I also remember singing about everything you could get for DKK 1, and in recent years you could at least call yourself CEO by spending DKK 1. The Danish People's Party was concerned about this from the very beginning; in fact we thought that it was a slippery path in terms of watering down the business spirit that one could call one director of the whole thing for 1 DKK. That is what we have been witnessing for a few years, and it was something that was brought up by the then Minister of Industry, I think it was Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who was the banner leader of it, and there were not the good bliss that would not bring about, compared to increased entrepreneurial urge in Denmark, if you could become director of 1 DKK. And we bit on the hook, the whole Folketing so to speak, and said: Well, let's try it out. Nobody wrestled in the waltz compared to that, not even sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. No, actually, we all agreed that we should try it out. The only problem was that it was hard to stop it again. In fact, the Danish People's Party was all alone in this Chamber about the desire to stop the passionate companies, for other parties would only do so if they could at the same time be allowed to reduce the requirements of a limited company from DKK 50,000. $40,000. Time went by and this should not be a history lesson, but it will still be a little late and the elections were approaching, and we had to see, that is to say, those of us who were trying to put an end to this completely insane disaster course in relation to strange entrepreneurs, that we had to change the law before an election was made, and we did not achieve that with the agreement that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. There was also the change that it became cheaper to set up a joint venture, and the Danish People's Party agreed to that. We think it is sensible to have the balance we have today, but it was not sensible to have 1-crown companies in Denmark. It may well be that the paper said: What a growth we have in the number of registered companies in Denmark; hello, where it goes. But when you looked over at the Danish Business Administration and at the jobs where you sit and have to carry out compulsory liquidation of companies that do not comply with accounting legislation etc., that is, those who made VAT carousels, and those who went in through the tax and fraudulent with our excise duties and our VAT and all sorts of other things, we could look at the figures that we got the Danish People's Party tax rapporteur, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær asked questions about it several times, and we got an answer to it long before we had it stopped that we had rounded 0.5 billion. kr. in expenses and losses on the basis of investment firms. Of course, I am not saying that because I do not like people who have passionate companies in Denmark, because many of those who have it today are the healthy ones, and they are the good ones, and they are the ones who have taken advantage of the possibility of a good heart and who have also proved that they can run their business. That is why, of course, it is also fair that we reached an agreement in August, showing due consideration for the fact that some of these companies have, of course, been caught up in relation to corona and economic and financial development, etc., and so on, it makes sense that we are extending the terms and the possibility of converting our company into a joint venture instead, for example. And it also makes sense that we do it in such a way that we settle for residual capital as a difference calculation, so that you can convert that part of your business and then come a little cheaper to a joint venture. So bottom line is that we support this bill, of course we do. It is also based on an agreement that a wide range of parties in the Folketing have agreed to, but that does not change the whole premise that, as long as we put the bar low enough, we get entrepreneurship in the kingdom, does not hold. We can actually look at the figures that have come; the latest new figures show that even here under corona and the time that has been with it, things are actually going okay with regard to the establishment and number of new companies in Denmark, and of course we should welcome that. But it has not been a success, and the Minister should not be burdened with that. We can then do this to other former ministers in this area. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171145	There were no questions. Then we thank the rapporteur and then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171157	Thank you. Actually, this is a relatively small bill, but I would like to add a few words to it now that we are standing here anyway. Indeed, I am very pleased that we have found a compromise that makes it a little easier to be one of the companies that has to switch from passionate to aps • also especially in view of the fact that right now business is in a really difficult situation under corona. As several speakers have pointed out, this draft law deals both with the extension of this sunset clause in relation to a temporary derogation from corporate and accounting obligations, but at the same time it also makes it easier to be an entrepreneurial company in economic terms, which has to be converted into a joint venture, since the draft law makes it possible to fund the remaining capital. At the same time, we will then extend the deadline for converting by six months, and in view of the current situation, I think that is only right. In relation to the agreement where we agreed on these changes, we have also taken full note of the fact that the government will open negotiations on initiatives aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship in Denmark, and we are still very much looking forward to those negotiations, because we need to look at both how we make it easier for Danish entrepreneurs to establish themselves and how we make it easier for entrepreneurs to run their business. We must create a framework for them to actually grow. It cannot just remain a word on a piece of paper. We need these entrepreneurs. We need growth companies. We need the good ideas to create jobs, to create the green transition and to find new solutions. Quite frankly, we also need our entrepreneurs to find a way out of the economic part of the corona crisis. There's so much to do. There's the green entrepreneurs. There's the female entrepreneurs. There is access to capital. These are just some of the major areas that I really believe that, with a proper focus on entrepreneurship, we can not only focus on, but really do something about, and I look forward to that very much. Radicals, of course, support the bill. And then I should also like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171429	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt from the SF as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171436	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur could not be here, but I have promised to read her speech. Like the vast majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, we in the SF agree that we must work to ensure that entrepreneurship and innovation continue to thrive in Denmark. That is why we, as politicians, must also take responsibility when the solutions we have created do not work well enough. Unfortunately, this was the case when we saw an excessively high proportion of entrepreneurial companies, the passionate ones, end up costing the treasury and thus taxpayers a lot of money and even being used for fraud. So it was undoubtedly the right choice when last year we chose to abolish the entrepreneurship companies and make a transitional arrangement. Healthy entrepreneurship must, of course, be able to continue as equity companies and, of course, those companies must have a proper time horizon, but we think that was also the case. However, we understand that we have been hit by a global pandemic and that the transition must therefore be easier for companies. That is why we in the SF are also prepared for the transitional period to be extended. It is common sense that provisions on physical attendance at general meetings of the companies concerned can continue to be waived. The general meetings held should not result in an increase in the spread of infection, which is why it makes sense that, exceptionally, they can be made digital. One of the elements that made the ivs an expensive experience for the Danish taxpayers was that one did not have the hand on the hot plate. It is not a human right not to be liable for your business and to be able to pass the bill on to everyone else. That is why we want a balanced amount to start a joint venture. Several organisations like Danish Industry and Agriculture & Food will have the limit as low as DKK 8,000. We in the SF think this is too low, and we believe that it will lead to the risk that more people will abuse the form of the company. We must, of course, work to ensure that starting up our own business continues to be more attractive, but we must also bear in mind that there must continue to be a balance between what the state and the community have to answer for and what there must be a natural risk when starting up a company. The balance is found in this proposal and therefore the SF can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171650	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171659	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. There is no doubt that Denmark needs entrepreneurs. We need new ideas, new businesses, new jobs. It must be easy and attractive to start up, and it must be great to try to be independent. That is why I was quite enthusiastic about the form of the firm, but at least no more enthusiastic about the fraud that clearly took place. It had to be stopped and a solution was found by re-registering to a limited company. Unfortunately, however, it was not possible to lower the capital requirement for the equity companies as much as Conservatives would have liked. It has also proved difficult for many entrepreneurs to obtain the necessary positive capital of DKK 40,000. At the same time, corona has made it even harder to reach re-registration. That is why it is good that in August we made an agreement to change this with a more relaxed re-registration. Now it is only the difference between the registered share capital of the ivs company and the minimum requirement of DKK 40,000. to become a party company that needs to be found, and then everyone gets 6 more months for the exercise. We would have liked to have seen that in the same rebirth we further lowered the capital charge... it should not be a secret. Since there was no majority for it in August, it was important to ensure a forthcoming debate on strengthening the conditions of entrepreneurs. And now I say upcoming, because I probably expected that we were already in full swing, and I would like to remind the Minister of the text of the agreement: the parties also note that in the autumn the government will start negotiations on initiatives aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship in Denmark. The parties see the need for concrete steps to make it easier for Danish entrepreneurs to establish themselves and run their business, as entrepreneurs help create jobs for the future, dynamics in business and growth in Denmark. Yeah, that's exactly what you could say. Startups are central to Danish development and growth, including the green transition, and cannot be given enough priority. We're tripping to get started, sir. Minister. And who knows? Perhaps now there can be better understanding to lower the capital requirement this time. The draft law also allows us to continue to allow general meetings, for example. may be carried out without physical attendance, provided that it is contained in the statutes of a company. The Corona is here a little longer, and this requires some ongoing adjustments. Conservatives, of course, vote in favour of the bill only if there was one person who should be in doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171914	There is a question from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124171920	Well, it is, in fact, because it is clear from the rapporteur that you have such a zeal. I recognize this, and we also know the feeling in the Danish People's Party that things can go a little slowly in here at Christiansborg. Now Mona Juul has only been here for a year and a half, and she may also have had to be true that sometimes things can be experienced a little slowly in getting things going. I can acknowledge that, but I now have 1⁄2 minutes to ask the rapporteur a little insinuating that making entrepreneurship in Denmark is going very badly. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur if she is not aware that the number of newly established companies in Denmark in the third quarter of 2020 is significantly higher than the number of established companies in the third quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172013	Thank you for the question. I certainly do not insinuate that entrepreneurship is going downhill. I say that we need entrepreneurship, that we need new ideas, that we need innovation, and fortunately the Danes have not been frightened either. But what we can do, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, is to motivate further. Because I am sure that the rapporteur agrees with me that the more entrepreneurs, the better the healthy and strong of them at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172042	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172044	That is where we may well disagree, Mrs Mona Juul. For Conservatives say that we should just put the price down yes, yes, just put the price down but vice versa the rapporteur must also know a little about this because it may be reasonable enough that those who set up and call themselves directors etc. also have a little hand on the hot plate. If you look at the way you can define the DKK 40,000 you put into an associate company, for example, it is not so difficult to find DKK 40,000 if it can be both inventory, other values etc. that are the basis for it. And then we should not forget that that way, a great many entrepreneurs, such as ourselves. I did it myself, was using our CPR number; it was simply the whole badroll, and if you cracked, you cracked. That is how it was, and so are those who choose to do so. I am not saying that, but does not the rapporteur recognise that we also have to make some demands on the funding behind it, because otherwise all the people can stand up and say: I am the director of everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172148	For my sake, everyone must stand up and say that they are the director in their own lives and for everything. That is not what we have to find in any way whatsoever any form of outrage in. What is important is that we provide as competitive terms to start business in Denmark as possible, and we could do that by lowering the capital requirement to DKK 8,000.; then we are in line with landing around us. We don't have to go down to 1 kr., we don't have to be a pirate Sally the whole bundle; it was also in the 1970s, so maybe we should also remember to write it up a little. It is so important that we ensure these good conditions for entrepreneurs. I am sure that we will have a very good debate on this point, and I think that we should go further than the DKK 40,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172226	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, rapporteur for New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172234	That's a fine suggestion. We can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172241	That was fast. The next rapporteur is Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. And it's not my fault that things are going so fast, sir. Ole Birk Olesen was your colleague there who thought it should go a little stronger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172257	Well, I have to agree with the words of sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. We, too, are voting in favour of the draft law, and we are doing so with the same arguments that have been used by other parties before us. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172311	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for Industry, whom I am sure cannot do so quickly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172321	In principle, I could, because we are also voting in favour. I was a little curious whether Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would say that it was with the same arguments as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, because then it would be a little exciting. But thank you for the floor and also thank you for the good and effective handling of the bill here. And if you just have to crunch up the most central points of the bill, the purpose of this proposal is relatively simple: we must help healthy entrepreneurs further, and at the same time we must focus on combating fraud and fraud. The proposal contains, as I think Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen also says, two parts: paragraph 1, that we relax the requirements to re-register an entrepreneurial company, and paragraph 2, that we extend the possibility of derogating from the rules of general meetings so that it is possible to hold them, even if the corona crisis continues and there must continue to be an assembly ceiling. However, the first part on the re-registration of entrepreneurship was something that we agreed back in August this year, namely that we should relax here, and that is what this proposal is putting into effect. It will be possible to re-register an entrepreneurship company to a joint-stock company by paying up the difference between the registered share capital of the entrepreneurship company and the minimum share capital of the equity companies. The period for re-registration shall then be extended by 6 months from 15 April 2021 until 15 October 2021. Then there is the part in relation to general meetings. Compared to them, it's a direct outcome of the fact that we're in the middle of a coronapandemic. In the spring we got very busy on many fronts adapting to the Coronapandemic, and many of the measures that were and are necessary also had consequences for a number of the duties arising from the corporate and accounting rules. Among other things: The ban on the assembly made it impossible to comply with any provisions of the company's statutes on physical attendance at general meetings, and so many Danish companies would not have been able to hold their general meetings and have their annual reports approved if we had not done anything. That is why we adopted such a formal law, which was the law authorising temporary derogations from the obligations of companies in the field of company and accounting in the context of covid-19. It is a law that has a sunset clause with effect here from 1 January. Of course, as everyone knows, the Corona crisis is far from over, and we do not yet know whether the ban on the assembly still applies when next year's general meetings are at the door. Therefore, we would like to give companies the opportunity to plan their general meetings digitally, even if we cannot say anything quite concrete about the development of the spread of infection in 2021. So with the bill it is proposed to extend the authorisation for management to derogate from the provisions of the company's statutes or similar agreement to hold general meetings. This would mean that it would still be possible to hold a full electronic or partial electronic general meeting, regardless of the statutory provisions. On the other hand, the draft law will no longer be able to derogate from the obligations under company and accounting law, such as: is about the deadline for submitting annual accounts. The new authorisation will therefore be a limited authorisation compared to the one in force, as we consider that there is no need for wider authorisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, in order to round off, I think it is important that we behave properly with the companies that behave properly. That is why entrepreneurship must, of course, be given the opportunity to re-register, which is why companies must, of course, be able to plan their general meetings digitally. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee and, of course, I hope that it will come into force here until 1 January, so that we can quickly give Danish companies the best opportunities to plan their future. And then I should just like to make one comment on what, for natural reasons, is also highlighted in today's debate, namely the question of political negotiations on entrepreneurship and how we can strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark in common agreement with each other. It is still the government's plan that negotiations should be opened this year if we just reach that, before the autumn formally ends calendarly, I am not 100% sure. However, by 2020, we will start the negotiations and then conclude them when we are ready for them, and it may then be in 2021. However, we continue to agree with the parties behind the agreement to open negotiations, so we will do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172838	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172904	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124172914	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are discussing here today is an expiry of the government cashier's checkout for 2019. There were a number of critical development tasks in the tax administration. This is particularly true in the field of IT. The bill must be seen as part of the government's plan to restore and strengthen confidence in the tax administration. In the long term, the government will provide the tax administration with 1,000 more tax workers and set up eight new tax centres throughout the country. With the 2020 Finance Act, we have already employed the first 250 new tax workers and opened the first two new tax centres. Specifically, the draft law is aimed at strengthening the governance and control of the tax administration's IT area and therefore provides for independent supervision of five external experts to strengthen and strengthen control of the tax administration's IT area and support parliamentary control of the IT operation and IT development of the tax administration. It will be the overall task of the IT inspectorate to monitor the IT area of the tax administration and to provide IT-related strategic and technical advice to the tax administration. The independent IT supervision shall complement the advice provided by the State Council of State and support the existing supervision of the Ministry of Taxation. In this context, it is proposed that the IT supervisory authority should be given the following powers: the supervisory authority may request the tax administration to explain major and significant decisions in the field of IT and on the detailed decision-making basis for e.g.: major strategic decisions; as part of its supervisory activities, supervision will be able to make recommendations to the tax administration on the basis of a follow-up or explanation principle, and if the tax administration chooses not to follow a recommendation from the IT supervisory authority, the tax administration will have to inform the IT supervisory authority and the matter will have to be submitted to the tax minister. The IT inspectorate will have to report to the tax minister on the work of the IT inspectorate in an annual report which will be published and submitted to the Danish Parliament. The IT Supervisory Authority will have to inform the Minister of Taxation of matters which, in the opinion of the IT Supervisory Authority, the Minister should be aware of. And the IT Supervisory Authority will have to deal with notifications received by the IT Supervisory Authority through reporting under a whistleblower scheme in the field of tax administration IT. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173146	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173150	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the rapporteur how many different supervisions it takes to save a bad product. Here it is about a new external supervision. In advance, the State IT Council has set up an IT expert group, which is also an internal supervisory body in the Ministry of Taxation, and the National Audit Office also supervises to a certain extent. So if you have, for example... A car that cannot drive is the solution so that you get it every year or every six months, or how many sightings do the car have to pass before you find that the product is bad? Do you really believe that it is another oversight that is needed to save this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173226	I am very confident that the supervision that is being set up here will work in such a way that it can help restore the confidence that must be in our tax administration. A well-functioning IT system is a prerequisite for us to have effective tax collection. It is necessary to provide guidance and advice on more governance. I also believe that we, as politicians, must recognise that there are limits to how much can be set in motion at once; in other words, the complexity of the legislation that has been adopted over many years has been very severe, and this has strained our IT systems. That is why it is so important to engage in governance, and I very much welcome this initiative on IT supervision in the field of tax administration. I'm sure it'll be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173327	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173329	After all, we fully agree that it is essential to have good systems that can support and that work, and also that there is good governance in relation to it. But to repeat the question: what is the need for there to be another state supervision? So, there is the State IT Council, the Treasury itself has internal supervision, which has also set up an IT expert group, which is the National Audit Office, which at least in relation to the economy also supervises, and now comes a fifth supervisory authority. What is the need for there to be a fifth authority? Couldn't it be that you might need to strengthen the State's IT council instead? Do the Socialists believe that it takes five supervisions to save a bad IT system?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173408	Well, I simply have great confidence that this bill will be a good initiative and an important part of the government's plan to restore and strengthen confidence in the tax administration. I can also see that this is being manned by people who know what this is about, so I have full confidence that this is gonna be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173433	Thank you. Can the rapporteur explain what it is about the existing arrangements that make them unable to carry out this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173440-2	I think it will be too extensive. I mean, for me, it is absolutely crucial that we restore and strengthen confidence in our tax administration. And this initiative is also a consequence of the government's check-ups, where it turned out that there were a number of critical development tasks in the tax administration. And that is why we should take action to strengthen the IT area, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173518	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173519	I recognise that it can be too extensive. Then the rapporteur could not just give two specific examples of this, but just give two very concrete examples of what the current arrangements could not promise. I mean, it must be fair to spend more tax dollars making a new arrangement. Can we have just two very specific examples of what the current one cannot promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173537	Well, this proposal is about strengthening the governance and control of the tax administration's IT area, and it is really, really important at a time when complexity is as great as it is. So that's the answer. We need to strengthen the IT area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173556	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173610	With this bill, the government wants to establish independent supervision of the tax administration's IT area. The purpose of the bill is to support and strengthen the IT business and IT development of the tax administration. The central task of supervision will be to ensure that the tax administration's IT area is better managed. The draft law contains, among other things: the following elements: the supervision shall be composed of 5 external members, all of whom have expert knowledge of the development of large public IT solutions. The IT inspectorate must have a number of powers to supervise and comment on the operation, maintenance and development of the IT area of the tax administration. The IT inspectorate shall publish annual reports on its work. The IT inspectorate may, inter alia,: contribute to the realisation of more of the IT projects of the tax administration, as provided, so that fewer delayed and expensive IT projects can be found in the tax administration. This must be done by consulting the members of the supervision when establishing budgets and timetables for IT operations and IT development. The Left agrees that setting up IT supervision can be a good step towards strengthening IT projects, because we are worried about the IT projects' finances and about how things are going. But we also have to say that we hope there will be other solutions. We do not quite believe that this is just what it takes to save the entire tax administration and the IT problem. Digitisation is one of the most important factors for modernising and developing the public sector, and therefore projects need to be managed. Each year, the tax administration collects more than 1,000 billion. kr. through its many IT systems. That money is to be used to finance our welfare societies. Well-functioning IT systems in the tax administration are a prerequisite for this. With these words, the Left is planning to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173816	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124173823	Thank you. The development of state-controlled IT systems has, to put it mildly, not been a success. I am thinking not only of taxation, but also, as a matter of fact, of police or employment. There have been numerous clasps tried, and there is one more of them in this draft law, where it is about having independent external supervision in the field of taxation alone. At first sight one can say that increased supervision may sound very good, and supervision may of course be fine, but when you already have countless supervision, it is difficult to see what the need is for this. There is already the State IT Council, which advises widely in all areas of the state. An IT expert group has been set up in the field of taxation alone. There is also internal supervision within the Treasury, which is looking at it here, where the National Audit partly also supervises the development of IT systems, at least the economic part of it. Here again there is further supervision, but only in the area of taxation. I think it is the hallmark of action: every time there is an IT system that doesn't work, you have to come up with something, and what do we do? Well, then we're gonna have to have oversight. The next time we get the property valuations postponed, we're gonna have to have a new supervision again, I guess, because then it'll all be good. I mean, there's no need for increased supervision. They're there. There is a need for simpler tax legislation, and there is a clear position of responsibility on who should take control of it, and so it does not help to spread it as you do with this bill. Thousands of people can be employed for supervision; so the product does not get any better. Instead, the State's IT council should be strengthened, so one has one place where experience can be gathered so that the experience gained in the tax field on how to develop a good public system could subsequently be used in transport or in the field of employment. I find it difficult to imagine why, in the field of taxation alone, there should be special IT supervision, which can then gather a lot of experience, which is then not used elsewhere. I think it has to be said that the development of information technology in the field of taxation has simply become a mess shop, and I see this most of all as an opportunity to push away responsibility. Because I would really like to foresee that when we, as Members of Parliament, ask what the timetable is like in the future, the answer is that it is external supervision that looks at it and that it is they who decide and that they are external, so we cannot do anything about it. Or if you ask if the economy seems to be holding up, the answer is that some outsiders are looking at it; we cannot stand by that. I think there should be a clear position of responsibility when developing major projects, and it should be at the Treasury Department's table, and there is no need for external independent supervision to assess it. So I can't support this bill. I would like to hear from the President-in-Office whether I can read out a story which actually puts what we are doing here very well at the forefront. It's actually a joke, so you have to take it as it is, because it's not certain it's fun for everyone. But it sounds like this: A public and a private company agreed to compete in caproning in an eight. Both crews trained for a long time, and when the day came, both teams were in top shape, but the private team won with a head start of a mile. Morality fell completely into the hands of the public company, and the senior management decided to win next year. A project group was set up to investigate the problem. After many studies, the project team found out that the privates had seven men to row and a man to control, while the publics had a man to row and seven men to control. In this crisis situation, however, management showed considerable action and immediately set up an additional project group, and after many months of work the experts came to the conclusion that there were too many to manage and too few to row. On the basis of the report of the project group, changes in the team structure were made immediately. There were now four masters, two chiefs, a commander and a rower. In addition, a system of motivation and a point system was introduced for the beet because he had to be expanded and given more responsibility, said the management. The following year the privates won with two kilometers of head start. The public undertaking therefore fired the beet on the basis of poor performance, but paid a bonus to the management in recognition of the large amount of work that had been done. A further analysis was then prepared from the project group, which concluded that the right strategy had been chosen and that the motivation was also in order, and that it had to be something else that was wrong with it, and that was the material. So now you made a new boat. I know it's a joke and a sense of humor, but that's exactly what we're doing here. After all, when the product is poor, it is not new supervision or a new project group that has to investigate things, and it ends in the same result: that if the product is poor, it is not enough that we have five supervisory authorities. I know it is not exactly in connection with the legislative proposal, but it may put it in a very good light that it is such a typical way of working in the public sector: now we need another project group and we need more supervision and then the product is guaranteed better. And it doesn't. So the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174319	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174328	Thank you. What is interesting for the Radical Left in this bill is that we may consider it in many ways as a kind of building manager on the tax administration's IT systems. And then, as a few of the other rapporteurs and authors have done, one wonders and asks: Why is it that we do not have it in the form of other councils and bodies? But it is so that when you look beyond the field of various agencies working with taxes, they have very, very different terms of reference and very different tasks in this context. And I remember how, as a new tax rapporteur, when we were sitting there looking at another postponement of the property assessment system or another coke in some IT system, I thought: where is the manager? Where's the boss? Why hasn't anyone been able to put their foot down? It seems to me that this is precisely a tool that we use between IT developers, who are often private companies, civil servants and politicians, so that we can make political decisions quickly and effectively if it cooks, or if there are pluggings in the system, etc. Some of the powers which lie in this supervision, and which have also been explained by the Social Democrat rapporteur, are precisely what will help us to lead. So for the Radical Left, this is more like a builder who refers directly to the boss, who is then the tax minister, and who has a steering group, then the Tax Committee, who can direct us through. It is very possible that now I myself have worked long enough in the public sector to know that it is possible that it is a totally naive performance and that we will have to look at this again, but I actually think this from a management perspective is a very good initiative. Now I have said everything other than what I said in my speech, but I believe that it sums up our position very precisely. I hope that this will give Parliament's parties more ownership, more insight and a better basis for decision-making in the future. We warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174543	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174547	Thank you for the example of a construction manager. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur: how many construction managers should there be on a project? Is it clever that there could be five different builders? Does the rapporteur think that a better product can be achieved? If it were finally to be a good idea to have a construction manager, wouldn't it be the Treasury who was the construction manager? It is they who are the supreme authority; it is they who must get it under control. Well, does it even make sense to have five different builders?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174613	The rapporteur has a point. I've looked at these processes and I've missed some leadership. You might also be able to keep the mirror up and look at where the management has been for the last 16-20 years in the restoration of the IRS, but we can leave that for now. And then we can just note that in the tax administration it may also have been difficult to look behind your own back for various senior employees • it may be difficult to cut through. After all, supervision will be so impartial that it will have the opportunity to say all the difficult things both to us in the Folketing and to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174649	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174652	It is, of course, a good thing that there can be supervision. The question is just how many different supervisions there should be, i.e. if you do not spread the responsibility so that you do not actually have a construction manager. Who, then, is responsible if there are so many people to advise? That is actually more what I doubt; the fact that you have an advisory body is, in fact, healthy enough, so that some look over your shoulder and can also guide the Folketing. But why is there a need for further supervision? Could it not be put together in the National IT Council, which gathers experience widely and which could then be strengthened for the same money perhaps? I mean, why do we need extra supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174724	I trust that the Ministry of Taxation has made an assessment of whether or not the Government's IT council could carry out this task, and there has in any case been a view that it could not within the terms of reference or work catalogue there. So for me, this is about this mission, this task portfolio hasn't been covered before. Well, this assignment might have been a little open. That we end up where this supervision really takes responsibility and actually takes management, and that the leaders of the Treasury push it over to the supervision, that is, just like saying it's not their table, we're going to see, and it's gonna be really exciting to follow that I totally agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174801	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174809	Thank you. SF supports this bill here. It is no surprise that, with recent boring stories about tax administration and the profit tax case, we need to strengthen control in order to prevent something similar from happening. Therefore, SF welcomes the government's proposal to set up the IT Supervisory Authority, which will help improve the handling of a whistleblower scheme, so it is easier for employees to contact if they discover anything suspicious. It is of course important that we can guarantee the effectiveness of the new supervision. We would therefore like to hear the Government's reflections on creating a new external body rather than extending existing councils and supervision. Can we guarantee that the new body will not be overloaded if it is to be responsible in future for all control and supervision of operation and development, or could we consider having it in line with other bodies? Similarly, we would like to hear the government's reflections on how many IT projects the supervision should focus on, that is, whether the idea is that supervision should focus on few critical IT tasks, or whether supervision should be extended more widely. In the SF we look forward to discussing this further in committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174922	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124174930	Thank you. As Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, unfortunately could not be here today, I am standing here and I have promised him to read out this speech: over the past many years, the tax administration has been hit by huge IT projects that have led to a great many ills for the tax administration itself and for society. Take e.g. the EFI recovery system. It sounded fascinating that you could fire a lot of employees in the recovery and replace them with an IT system. The result today is that public arrears have exploded. Approx. 130 billion kr. is the amount up to. The main reason why the arrears have grown to this astronomical figure is that for years we have been unable to recover properly because of waiting for an IT system to be completed. We have repeatedly said from the Enhedslisten side: Let's now hire some more employees for the recovery and do it manually. We hope that there will soon be sensitivity to our point of view. It has been a really bad idea for the internal audit to be dismantled at the time. That is why we in the Enhedslisten have also problematized this and proposed the re-establishment of more supervision and control, which is much more independent of the Ministry. That is why we welcome this bill which will establish the legal basis for the supervision of the IT area. It is high time we had more control and transparency over the major IT projects. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175059	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party is. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175115	The tax administration is the sick man of the central government, the weak link in making things work. It has been for years, and it has plagued both bourgeois and socialist tax ministers over the years, and it has, of course, been subject to enormously justified criticism for not working very well. The main reason for this is that we have a tax system that is so complicated that it is a very, very difficult task to manage and make work. The mere fact that we have a labour market contribution, for example, which is just such an extra link in making things more difficult, says all about the fact that in no way has simplicity been thought into the systems that the tax administration has to administer. It is a responsibility that we think the Folketing should take much more on by ensuring that simple tax legislation is adopted, support simplifications and have simplicity very high priority, instead of constantly inventing, every time a budget law is made, some new little tax screw, we can turn to a new deduction or grant or a new tax, which makes things very, very difficult both for tax administration and for citizens to see through. That is the crux of the problem. The second problem can then be poor management, and I will not judge how good or poor management you have, because it requires you to be very close to an organisation if you are to be able to pass judgment on it. It doesn't seem very impressive from the outside. We shall have to conclude that. But I am not going to make myself a judge of exactly what action is needed to remedy this. It's only a tax minister who can make this work. It is very difficult in the Parliamentary Chamber to point out exactly how to strengthen management in a way that will make an organisation work properly. I think that is simply outside our competence. That is why we will also be supporting the bill. In fact, I very much agree with some of the very articulate criticism I have heard from my fellow citizens that we can be very sceptical about whether this will solve the problems of tax administration. I do not think it will in any way, nor can I explain what supervision over what and what new supervision is needed. But I can say that when the tax minister comes and tells us that he thinks this is the right thing for him to be able to rectify the tax administration, we really want to back it up and give the government that hand and trust, so that you get the room for manoeuvre you are asking for on this point that we do not consider to be super controversial. That is why we support it in confidence in the tax minister and in the belief that he should have the support to get these problems right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175403	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175406	I'm sorry to take the floor, but I actually got a little confused. The first big part of the speech was actually really good. It was, of course, about regulatory simplifications, which should be the tool, rather than strengthening management and other things. And, of course, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's side said that it was in agreement with the criticism that had been made, but then it ended with saying that it was supported in the way it was. I didn't quite understand that. In other words, if you agree that this is not the solution and that it will probably be a different direction, why do you not say no to the bill or at least say that you want it to be drilled into the committee procedure, to find out what is up and down in it, to see what the need is? So why do we say so firmly to a first reading after that speech that we support it? At least that's what we should be looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175448	I think I explained why we do not agree with the conclusion drawn by the Danish People's Party, and I can then repeat that. It is because we find it difficult for us to understand exactly which supervisory bodies are needed. And that's why we trust that when the government asks for this, it needs that tool. It should certainly not be called, that is, a government should not subsequently be able to come and say: we have been opposed by the Folketing, we have not been allowed to strengthen the management of the tax administration, and that is why it is not working today. I think it is difficult for us, as tax rapporteurs, to judge it, in other words to say exactly what supervisory structure should be in the tax administration. But I would like to give the tax minister the helping hand at least to support what he is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175531	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175538	Thank you. We are not going to support this bill in New Citizens, and we are not doing so because we believe it is yet another supervision and even more tax dollars to be used for these things. I remembered when I came up here, we talked a lot about policy development and things like that. And I would actually like all parliamentary parties to come together and try to develop politics and to have as their goal that we should try to create a new tax law that could stand on an A4 sheet. We had to see if it was possible to simplify tax legislation so that all people could stand out there and find out. It could be a funny thought experiment to see if it's possible. Can we simplify that? And, of course, if we can do that, we must take responsibility and do it. When I look at tax legislation, and now I have both as a self-employed person and a public employee and a private employee had a lot to do with the tax authorities, I understand that there are many traders out there who say: Is that really true? There are also many out there who, when they just need to get set off and everything else, say that they can't find their way around it at all. The responsibility is ours, and we must bear that in mind. I would like one day to try to sit down and ask whether this can be done with some experts. I know we're doing hearings and stuff, but let's try to think out of the box in relation to this. Because if there is one thing I think we might agree on, it is that the small changes that have actually been made to it over the last 20 years have not solved it. Now you try another change, but I might as well be honest and say that I don't believe this is what's going to solve it. Maybe you should be willing to try to think out of the box. I remember a few years ago, we were going a long way back. We had that thing with a tax-free year, and then you went over to something else, and then you got it straightened out. Perhaps it is the thoughts we have to choose and then say: we simply take a year zero, create a whole new system, take a tax-free year, and then we go there. It's just a thought, and I would like to invite all the parties of the Folketing to try to think some better thoughts about taxes. To just keep going down the same path, I just don't think it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175751	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then it is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124175803	We are suffering from the misfortune that, in relation to everything that is important in this society, the best at deciding what to do is those who are not employed for it. Those of us who care about football can see that our favourite club here in Copenhagen is not doing so well at the moment. And there it's really a shame that those who are really smart about what the club should do are some who aren't at the club. Those who are in the club, own the club, have invested their own money in it, employees, players etc., simply don't know anything about what to do to play better football. It's all sorts of people outside who are actually the best at it. And they have a lot of good advice on what to do. The accident that we saw is that they're not at the club. How did it get there that those who don't understand it have come to the club, and those who know it are outside the club? It's really an accident. That is also true in politics: those parties that never go into government know much more about what should be done in government than the parties that come into government. And it is also a terrible accident, since the wisest are the parties that do not go into government, because then they should be the ones who went into government. The problem is they don't want to. The Danish People's Party has been offered to go into government and they talk a lot about it in the run-up to elections, but then when you come across the other side of the election, they won't anyway. Then we can take another annual meeting at the Danish People's Party, where the press writes that now the Danish People's Party is ready to go into government. When it comes to the chance, they won't do it again. Nor do I believe that at any time new citizens will go into government with the style they have laid down. And it is awful that they are now the smartest in terms of how to build and reform the tax administration. Well, it's too bad we're never gonna get sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as tax minister or Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen as the treasure minister, since they are the best. Our approach to this is, in fact, we do not understand why the Folketing should be involved in whether the government in the field of taxation needs to consult five experts in terms of how to deal with the IT challenges that the executive has. Why should the legislative power be involved in this? The government should do that if that's what's right. We do not interfere in whether you need 10 employees or 20 employees or 50 employees to develop your IT solutions. So why should we even be asked whether you should have five experts on part-time? The executive must take care of that. So our starting point is that, since we do not think this is a matter for the Folketing at all, but that the government should do so, if the government thinks it is right, we will put our rubber stamp on this. Because we can't even see why we're even being asked about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180110	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180113	I kind of agree with Ole Birk Olesen about people standing outside and inside. Now you can see that Ole Birk Olesen has just done so as a political commentator in analyzing how other parties should do so, and I must not just recommend that he go the same way as his former colleague Joachim B. Olsen and then actually become a political commentator instead of standing outside and doing so. Because it seems to us that we are better at doing this than those who stand in there and comment on it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180139	I don't see the parallel. In other words, our argument that the government should be given the opportunity to do this is that we do not understand at all why the Folketing should be asked about it at all and why the government does not just do it on its own. And that is our argument for voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180157	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180159	That was the other part of it, and that's fair enough. In the first part, the rapporteur then chose to comment on what is expected of New Citizens and what DF has not done and analysed everything. That is fair enough too, but then you just have to say that I'll just follow up on the analogue and say that maybe you should turn that way. But in relation to New Citizens we have to see the future is bright, and then we have to see what it ends with for New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180222	Well, this is about whether five experts should be appointed part-time to advise on IT solutions in the Treasury, I think that is a matter for those in government. But I could understand that, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's speech that he knew much better whether the government needed the five employees, and that's what I raised in my speech... the pity that those who are smartest are always outside the decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180250	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next person to speak is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180257	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the broad support. Especially in relation to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's metaphorical speech here I would like to say that one can only agree that in life here at Christiansborg, and especially when one sits in government and has government responsibility, there are often many outside who never take responsibility and think that they have answers to everything. I am not going to make myself aware of the situation in the FCK at the moment, but it is obvious to everyone that things are not going too well. Then it is good that you are a fan of Brøndby IF, where the reality is that there are people, both those who are in the management and those who sit outside the management, who agree that things are going very well. So, thank you very much. Joking aside, this is more serious than that, but it was, to stay in the imagery, right to the right leg. Thank you for your support. It is true that this is a special case, but I also think it has to be said that the history and fate of the tax administration has also been a special case for far too many years, unfortunately. We collect in the tax administration, as has also been done, every year 1,000 billion. kr. for the financing of our welfare society and public expenditure, and there is no doubt that functioning IT systems are a fundamental prerequisite for us to have effective tax collection, as we should and should do for the Danish model, as we call it. But the IT development of the tax administration needs to be better managed than it has been up to now, and it has to be said that this was clear after the government made its examination of the acute IT problems of the tax administration, as it was said, last autumn. Although, and I think we should praise each other for this, for many years and with broad support from virtually the whole of the Danish Parliament, important steps have been taken towards getting better control of IT systems in the tax administration, indeed, this review by the government also showed that there are still major challenges for and in the tax administration's IT area. There is a need for enhanced supervision. There is a need for stronger governance of IT projects in the Tax Administration. There is a need for the projects to be better planned, for resources and timetables to be managed and managed more closely and for progress to be followed up. That is why the government is proposing that we have an external, independent IT supervision specifically in the tax administration's IT area. The goal is to get and better manage IT projects in the future. With an independent IT supervision, the Tax Administration, the government and, of course, the Danish Parliament will also receive this is why we are adopting legislation on it, hopefully better advice and guidance on the decision-making basis when it comes to tax administration's IT systems. The proposal is particularly topical in these years when very large IT development projects are being carried out and where we also need to look forward to modernising many of the older IT systems of the tax administration. The independent IT supervision shall support the supervision carried out by the Ministry of Taxation. The IT Supervisory Authority will also supplement the advice provided by the National IT Board. This is therefore a supplement, and I think this is important to emphasise: not a replacement for the already established supervisory arrangements in this area. Monitoring is then proposed to be given both supervisory and advisory tasks and powers. In order not to repeat those who have already been on the platform, I would just like to highlight three areas. First, the IT inspectorate must monitor the operation, maintenance and development of the tax administration's IT. In this context, IT supervision must advise on e.g.: risks, priorities, timetables and budgets. Secondly, the IT Supervisory Authority will have the opportunity to request explanations and clarification of the decision-making framework for key decisions in the field of IT. Thirdly, it is proposed to introduce a follow-up or explanation principle which means that if a recommendation from the IT Supervisory Authority is not followed, the Tax Minister and the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee must be informed. In addition, it is proposed that the IT inspectorate inform the tax minister about the work of the supervision in an annual report which, prior to publication, is also to be presented to the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee. In addition, supervision is intended for a role in the processing of reports received by the supervisory authority through whistleblower schemes covering the tax administration's IT area. In this way, IT supervision will help to ensure that serious errors or serious irregularities associated with IT operations and/or IT developments in the IT systems of the tax administration are brought to light. Tax administration is in the process of, and I think we are all painfully aware of this, a long-term process of consolidating and developing vital, complex and large IT systems. There will be an ongoing need to follow up on the risks and opportunities to reduce the complexity of the systems. In order to succeed, therefore, there is a need for both calm but also stability in this area, and by establishing the IT supervision by law, IT supervision is given the strongest possible mandate. The establishment of supervision does not alter the fact that it is the tax minister who is responsible for the task of carrying out the tax administration, including in the field of IT. In those words, there is only one thing left to say: thank you for your broad support. This is an important element in ensuring that we have independent supervision in the future, not least when we look into the major tasks we face, which will strengthen the way in which we have handled the development of IT projects in the tax administration so far. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180928	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124180931	Thank you. In order to continue with the example of the radical rapporteur, I would like to ask the tax minister: how many construction managers should there be on such a project? So, here is a new external supervision, the State IT Council, an IT expert group that is the National Audit Office, which also carries out some kind of supervision, and the Treasury itself has supervision. So the question is short from the second example I used myself: how many masters should there be on a rowboat? Could it not be possible to strengthen some of the supervision that was already in place instead of placing a responsibility on the basis of five different supervisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181005	The government thinks that this model is the right one, and we are, because what has unfortunately been painfully proven is that there have been far too many delays, that there have been too many budget overruns and that there has been a lack of control over the tax administration's IT projects. We believe that it is right to have external independent experts with whom we, as Parliament, can also consult, who can provide close guidance, who can follow closely what may ask about projects and who know specifically what to ask about when it comes to the development and priorities of both the projects, but also of the resources for the projects. We are talking here about projects which, I think, are individually larger than any other part of what the public administration is working on, and there is a need for it to show all the experience unfortunately shows a close counselling and guidance. There the government believes that it is the right answer to get it done as purposefully as possible. And that is what supervision is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181115	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181117	I do not think anyone disagrees with the seriousness of the fact that we have a good machinery space, one can say, under our tax administration, because it is like the engine of getting our money in, which we can spend on all things, and it is important that there is good governance on it. The only question is whether it is good to spread the control of so many different masters. Could it not be possible to apply for advice at the State Council on IT, to pull some experts into it, so that you could also have the knowledge collection widely in other ministries, i.e. if you do something in the police or in the Ministry of Employment? This is all about taxation. So could it not make sense to strengthen what was already and would like to with more experts and funds, and what it could be and to put it together instead of spreading it on now so five supervisory authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181158	This is about targeting supervision, and I know, of course, that sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has been active in the tax area for a lot of years and has been on these projects for a lot of years and knows how big the challenges are. In other words, we are now talking about a handful of gigantic projects, we are talking about a debt area or a recovery area, where we have de facto shut down an entire management area and are now well on the way to being, fortunately, the target of having the engine of a new recovery system in place. But it's taken years. We are talking about a property assessment project which is also well on the way, but still a risky project. There is a need for close supervision here, and I think that can be for everyone's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181244	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181256	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181314	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here today is to implement the tax avoidance directive's requirements for EU Member States' CFC rules, controlled foreign companies, which are safeguards to prevent the transfer of mobile income to low-tax countries. The bill is the same as L 48 from the last assembly. It is proposed that a balanced implementation of the directive's CFC rules should be ensured, in particular by targeting the rules, so that they only affect cases where income actually is It is proposed that the minimum requirements of the directive be implemented without changing the Danish CFC tax model, where the rules apply to all subsidiaries, wherever they are located. If that were not the case, the rules within the EU could only be applied to subsidiaries without so-called substance, which would constitute a significant weakening of the protection. At the same time, a targeting of safeguards is proposed so that they only tax income from assets that are actually specifically proposed to change the rules, so that the CFC rules apply if the CFC income in subsidiaries is at least one third against half according to the applicable rules. At the same time, the concept of income for intangible assets is being extended. This will help ensure that Danish CFC rules are more robust in ensuring that values are taxed where they are created. The bill is not deemed to have any revenue implications. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that tax evasion must be combated and that tax should be paid basically in the country where you earn your money. It's in that light that this bill needs to be seen. The Tax avoidance Directive is an important instrument to ensure that all EU Member States have rules to prevent tax avoidance that meet certain minimum requirements. Otherwise, we will have a race to the bottom between the Member States of the European Union, which will have major and worrying consequences for the so-called cohesion of the countries and for the well-being of the citizens. The bill ensures that Denmark complies with its international obligations and ensures that there is full implementation of the tax avoidance directive. The protection rules, the so-called CFC rules, help to ensure that values created in Denmark are also taxed here, and this is an important instrument, as I said, in the fight against tax evasion. I believe that the government, with its proposal, has found a balance that ensures that Denmark continues to have a robust corporate tax base, while at the same time seeking to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies. This is an important balance for social democracy. We must always prevent unnecessary bureaucracy and we must work for good framework conditions for businesses. Danish companies must be able to be competitive. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181627	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181638	Thank you for the floor. This bill implements the last part of the Council of Europe directive and has been tried before. It was tried for the first time in 2018, when we had the power of government ourselves, and we had to recognise that it simply created so much trouble for business that we had to try to find solutions to it. However, we did not think that we got far enough with the solutions we found and therefore ended up never adopting the bill. Then it was tabled again last year by our current tax minister, but here the Corona made it clear that we did not finalise a lot of legislative proposals, and for us it has also become clear that the administrative burdens we impose on companies are far too great. In concrete terms, this bill means that Danish companies have to determine how much of their products are made by Danish employees and how much of their shares are made by foreign employees when their subsidiary is located abroad, and this despite the fact that they may not even have to pay tax on it. It is a huge burden to impose on Danish business and it will destroy the competitiveness of Danish business. It is also one of the things that Danish business is telling us that this will completely push their competitiveness and destroy the possibility that the Danish companies, which today are performing formidablely in the world, will continue to be formidable. Danish industry says they want a substantive test because it will significantly reduce the burden. We think that sounds right, very sensible, but we understand that the government is refusing to introduce a substantive test. What we understand from the government is that it will cost the Treasury a greater billions, and of course we cannot stand here and propose something that costs a greater billions, although we are surprised that it would cost a greater billions if we did not get a single penny into the CFC tax today. But then we have to look at what we can do instead. In the Left, we warmly support international cooperation on tax avoidance, and that is why we think we should adopt this bill with a partial substantive test. The government has told us that it does not actually cost anything to carry out a partial substantive test, and it responds to some of the business concerns. And if that is the way we can land it, so that we can both protect ourselves against tax avoidance, can implement an EU directive, but also ensure that we do not completely destroy the competitiveness of Danish industry, then that must be the way it moves. We therefore look forward to the work of the committee, where we will ask the government to draw up a proposal for a partial substantive test, which we hope will be supported by a majority in the Folketing. In this way, we ensure both that we have robust and strong rules and safeguards against international tax avoidance, but at the same time we also ensure that Danish business can continue to compete worldwide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181939	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124181945	Thank you. This bill is, after all, a re-examination of a previous draft law, which in the last session was called L 48 and before it was again called L 28, and which deals with taxation of foreign subsidiaries, i.e. which Danish groups have in another country. The fact that it is a re-examination of something from twice in the past will probably be a great deal of repetition, which probably also means that the debate is not so violent today, because we have had it a few times before. It is, of course, an extremely complicated proposal in which, as a legislator, one can be a little powerless. Because when it is so complicated and at the same time there is so much disagreement among civil servants and companies about how it will affect, it is a little difficult as legislators to make the cut, because we are not experts in such an area. This can also be seen from the consultation answers, where it is a little different, at least in relation to what companies say and what the official work says. So we are a little dependent on what is emerging from the dialogue that has taken place between the companies and the Treasury. It has been there for a very long time, and I do not have the impression that it has actually improved. I will mention some of the things that I can see there are problems with this and which I also mentioned the last two times. And that is that there is a high degree of overimplementation. I mean, these are rules that have come from the European Union. We had rules in advance, then the EU rules are added, and then we have chosen the strongest rules from both sides, which means that we have an overimplementation. That is what companies are going to cost us a lot of money. The government then says it's revenue-neutral. And then there is the whole debate on whether to have a substantive test. It says the government costs a lot of money, while companies say that it costs no money. So there is a huge gap here, one must say. At any rate, I can only say that a great many other EU countries have chosen to do a substantive test, and they have chosen not to do this over-implementation. So if we adopt what is on the table, we will be putting Danish companies significantly lower than their competitors abroad, and I think that is a really bad idea. In addition, there is a high degree of discretion here, which is not particularly good in the context of tax legislation, because it may be difficult for companies to know what to pay, and you can use a lot of administrative staff to make it up, and that is not good either. And there is the solution, which among other things. The rapporteur of the Left also said that it would be necessary to carry out such a substantive test as other countries have. And by the way, I understand that such a partial substantive test has actually been carried out, but that we must first get it for second reading, which I think is a little too bad for the debate; because then there could be something new to discuss here, that is, when you actually have a sketch ready. It may then be that the debate will instead come to the second reading, where we will then have the real proposal we are going to discuss. But at least in the Danish People's Party, we cannot support what is on the table here. But, of course, we will reconsider if such a substantive test is included. It is also important, however, in the process of consulting companies, as to whether it solves the problems and disagreements that have arisen. For I must honestly say that I find it difficult as a legislator to assess exactly where the cut should lie. So I very much hope that the business community and the Ministry can also agree on a kind of substantive test in which, after all, both parties can say that they are now satisfied. However, as I said, with what is on the table now, our position is the same as the last two times, namely that we cannot support the proposal on the basis that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182301	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Oldag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182311	Thank you so much. The bill here is one of the fiscal policy proposals that has caused Parliament the most headache, at least in the time I have been here: it is about the Danish implementation of the EU tax avoidance directive. But let us start with the purpose of the directive. It must ensure that the tax is paid where profits are generated and values are created. Specifically, CFC rules must act as a safeguard against parent companies moving mobile assets to foreign subsidiaries in low-tax countries, to empty companies without substance. The directive therefore follows a substantive test which is at the heart of the Danish debate and which has caused a great deal of concern. 'Cause we're gonna have one of those or aren't we? The current Danish CFC rules apply to a wide range of income types. With the implementation of the directive, we are extending the types of income considered to be CFC income. In other EU countries where they have not had CFC rules, the substance test is typically applied to all types of income. But today we come up with a proposal that we only apply substance testing to the category other income from intangible assets, which is what has given our Danish companies the most headache. But now back to the worries. For the Ministry of Taxation's concern is that the Danish CFC rules are undermined by the new directive and not least by the substantive test. They believe that weakening the CFC rules will make the Danish corporate tax base more vulnerable to income relocation. But they're not quite sure that or how much it's gonna happen maybe it's gonna happen. The concern of large Danish global companies is that they will be unequal in terms of competition in the fight for large global assignments; or in other words, that they will have to comply with other and stricter rules than their colleagues in the rest of the EU if there is no substantive test. Here there is concern that the loss of revenue will also amount to a billion euros, perhaps that will happen. So it is not possible for us politicians to assess how this is to be done on the basis of revenue estimates. Therefore, the radical approach is to try to land it in a place that we hope most people can live with. Because we can see that the proposed legislation is the same as last time, and since we were unable to vote for it last time, we cannot vote for it now either. We would therefore like to ask for an amendment containing a substantive test which only exempts the category of other income from intangible assets from CFC income. However, because we are also listening to the concerns of the Treasury, we propose in advance that the substantive test be taken into account as well as it can. And we actually have some ideas for that. You could, for example. Recycle some of the relaxations from L 48, i.e. from the last time we worked on this proposal. They would no longer make sense if we put in place a substantive test. However, we can maintain a few of these reductions, for example. the possibility of opting to be taxed exclusively for CFC revenues in the subsidiary. An effective evaluation clause could also be added where we can act quickly and tighten up if abuses are detected. We could also make it the third idea that we have made a very, very clear exemption list, that is, a pre-notification that a substantive test will not be available in specific circumvention situations. We are imagining a schematic overview where it appears that the substance does not apply if they and the conditions or those and the types of subsidiaries are involved. The list must be very clear, unambiguous and easy to navigate to companies, and the list should be included in the amendment. If the Treasury itself has further suggestions on how to fence in the substantive test, we are of course also sensitive to it. In the Radical Left, we believe that this is the right way to deal with the bill, and we also hope that the other parties of the Folketing can see themselves in it. So, in order to also create a good process on the amendment, we would like to ask the Committee on Taxation to send the amendment to consultation when it comes so that we can see how it is received by those we legislate about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182726	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182735	Thank you. SF can support this bill here. As you know, there has been concern that the legislative proposal risks over-implementing the CFC rules, as we already have stricter rules in force in Denmark than the minimum requirements proposed. That is precisely why we are now dealing with the original proposal in two parts. We are voting in favour of the proposal because we agree that it is important to have the same model as the other countries. In this way it will be easier to eliminate tax evasion, as we avoid gaps where Danish legislation does not comply with the minimum requirements of the Council. On the other hand, we should not fundamentally relax the existing Danish protection rules in implementation. Of course, we also need to ensure that the implementation of minimum requirements does not unduly complicate current legislation in this area or lead to double taxation of companies that will be affected by changes in legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182828	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124182835	Thank you. I'm still a substitute for Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund. And on behalf of him I shall make this speech: then we shall go to it for the third time. We must try to adopt the implementation of the tax avoidance directive's part on CFCs taxation. The tax avoidance directive contains a large number of good elements that we have already implemented, but there has been so much wind of the CFCs tax that we must now again try to agree on the implementation of Danish law. We would like to sign off on the government's adherence to the CFC rules and not opt for substantive tests. It would open up a barn door to aggressive tax planning, which it is clear if you read the consultation answers that companies have dreams of. In a reply to the Committee on Taxation, too, the Minister of Taxation has clearly stated that if we move to substantive testing, the Treasury will potentially lose a billion dollars. It is also gratifying that the government is sticking to the implementation of the inclusion of other income on intangible assets in CFC taxation in future. We are pleased about this because, despite the good Danish tax rules, we have a challenge with a gap which allows patents to be transferred to low-tax countries, thereby avoiding CFC taxation. The unitary list can support this bill, and I know that Rune Lund is looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183003	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183015	It should be strange if we were not looking forward to a committee dealing with the CFCs rules. I think we all look forward to that. I share the view of the other parties which have a bluish nuance in them, namely that we would like to have an amendment where there is a substantive test, otherwise it would be anticompetitive for Danish companies with foreign subsidiaries if they were suddenly to be taxed harder by holding such subsidiaries in relation to groups in other countries. So we would like to have a substantive test, and if we do it as a partial substance test, then we can live with it. I have not quite understood why it should be so much more expensive for Denmark to make a substantive test than it should be for other countries, but it may be that the tax minister can discuss it. In fact, what we are asking for is, of course, just that we have the same rules as we do in other countries, so that we do not destroy the competitiveness of Danish companies. However, there are apparently some very special relationships with Denmark which make it very, very difficult to make rules that are the same with the rules that are in other EU countries. And I would really like to explain that in more detail. However, we would like to have a substantive test, and we therefore expect to support the amendment that comes forward. And then we also expect that, in the end, we will be able to support the bill if we get that substantive test in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183141	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183148	New citizens will not be able to support a bill that undermines the competitiveness of Danish business. We will listen to amendments if one comes from the Radical Left, and we will do so with an open mind. And if we can be confident that this is the way forward, then we will look at it. But now we have to see when it comes, but we're always open to something like that. However, we will certainly not put our rubber stamp on anything that undermines the competitiveness of Danish industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183216	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183222	Thank you. As the bill is here, the Liberal Alliance will vote against it. We are worried that this will lead to the fact that Danish companies' subsidiaries abroad will be taxed more heavily than the competitors who may be abroad, and this seems to us to be a barrier to Danish companies' ability to do business in the large world. We are also looking forward to whether it is possible to carry out a substantive test in this area. That would probably solve some of the problem, and that is why we are also looking forward to what kind of amendment it is that might be dealt with in this area in the Assembly. And then we will do our job.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183310	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we've reached the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183316	May I thank you for receiving the bill here? As has already been pointed out, this is a re-submission of part of L 48 from the last Assembly, since the government has chosen to divide L 48 into two, so that the amendment of the CFC rules now has its own legislative proposal. The government, as most people have realized, has a clear objective of combating tax havens and aggressive tax planning. It is vital for our society that everyone contributes to the community, big and small, otherwise we lose some of the money that we otherwise fight in here about what to do, whether it be kindergarten, schools, hospitals, business policy, labour market policy or education policy or some of the other things that we do not want or can do without. We know that some global companies will jump to avoid paying taxes and that new creative methods are constantly being developed for that purpose. And although I do of course have a great deal of faith in the social mindset of the vast majority of Danish companies, it is important that we from here in the Chamber express our clear expectation of how Danish companies should behave and that we have up-to-date legislation that sets the framework for it. Denmark is and must continue to be a pioneer in the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. This also means that we sometimes have to take the lead, as Denmark has done historically in relation to the CFC rules. The government wants us to take another step in this direction with the implementation of the minimum requirements for CFC rules in the tax avoidance directive. With the legislative proposal, we therefore propose to keep the existing Danish model of CFC taxation while, in a targeted and effective way, increasing the level of taxation where the directive requires it. At the same time, we ensure that we maintain our obligations in the European Union. It is quite wrong, in the view of the government, to start talking about relaxation of the existing Danish defence, because an international agreement has been reached on a minimum standard that is now under This should certainly not be interpreted as if we are in the goal and we can just sit back and relax. With the bill and the continuation of the Danish model, we get a clear signal to the outside world and the international community that we in Denmark remain at the forefront of the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. As I have said, the aim of the draft law is to implement the EU's tax avoidance directive, which includes: lays down minimum requirements for Member States' CFC rules. CFC rules sound a little technical, but basically it is whether you want to, defence mechanisms or safeguards to prevent groups from moving assets, and hence the associated income, to countries with lower taxation, for tax reasons. The tax avoidance directive, as it is called, was to be implemented by the end of 2018. The former VLAK government therefore put forward a proposal in the previous parliamentary year on the implementation of all the various elements of the directive, including the minimum requirements for the CFC rules. Several large companies and their interbranch organisations therefore expressed concern about the part relating to the CFC rules, and that part was therefore separated, as I said, and never implemented. It was against this background that I put forward L 48 in the last session to ensure that the Danish rules complied with the minimum requirements of the directive. Today, as I have said, we are discussing a re-submission of L 48, and I hope that this time the covid-19 situation will not slow us down so that we can have a proper review of the legislative proposal. In the design of the proposal, a balance has been sought to ensure that Denmark continues to have a robust corporate tax base, but that at the same time we ensure that the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies are reduced. This ensures the foundation of many Danish jobs without weakening the level of protection of the rules. On the one hand, the proposal is based on the basic premise that Denmark is and must continue to be a pioneering country in the fight against tax avoidance. Therefore, the proposal is based on the existing Danish CFC rules, where the rules apply to all subsidiaries, wherever they are located. A minimum implementation of the requirements of the directive would mean that the rules within the EU and the EEA could only be applied to subsidiaries without substance. This will significantly weaken the already existing protection against the transfer of income to countries with lower taxation, and there will be a weakening which is estimated to result in significantly lower revenue, probably in billions. On the other hand, it is important that Denmark does not unnecessarily put Danish companies at a disadvantage in terms of competition. With the bill, the government has therefore stressed that ordinary Danish companies are not unduly affected. In particular, it has been sought to ensure that the proposal targets the rules so that they only lead to taxation in precisely those cases where the considerations behind the rules justify it. The consultation on L 48 showed that parts of the business community still want a minimum implementation. The solution proposed, however, is, as I said, of course, balanced and, as far as possible, responds to the concerns that have been raised. Thank you for this debate. I look forward to another round of in-depth debate on this proposal in the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee, and the government is naturally looking forward to it. And we are helping in every way so that we can now, hopefully, live up to the commitments we have in EU cooperation to implement this EU directive on tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183951	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124183954	I would like to ask the tax minister what it is that is so special in Denmark that it is necessary to have other rules where we tax Danish groups more than other countries do in relation to CFC.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184014	The answer is basically that it is exactly the same answer as the previous government, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was a member of, said, that we need to protect the Danish tax rules from tax planning and tax avoidance. What we have put forward for the second time and are discussing here today is, of course, a softer version of what the government, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was part of, submitted. So he should be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184045	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184046	Now we chose to pull it because we found out it was a bad idea. What are the tax rules that make them have to be protected in Denmark? So, what is it more concrete that is special about Danish conditions and that must be protected?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184106	After all, these are our Danish safeguard rules, that is, the CFC rules against tax evasion. That's what this bill is about. It's been under discussion in here several times now, so sir. Rasmus Jarlov knows very well that basically it is an attempt to prevent Danish companies from taking advantage of the opportunities to move assets out of the country, which enable them to avoid taxation, which otherwise seems fair in other contexts. That's basically what this is all about. There is not so much difference between the arguments I am making here and the arguments used by previous governments with other colours.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184139	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment on Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184146	After all, we have had the discussion many times before, and it is not because I am going to take the time unnecessarily, but it is nevertheless my impression that the Minister says that it will cost a significant billion dollars if a substantive test is carried out. And then it could be that the Minister could just mention: how much is it that we are getting into CFC taxation today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184202	We can answer that in the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184206	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184208	In the past, the Minister of Taxation has replied that no money will be made available into the CFC tax, so why is it that a substantive test will give such a large deficit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184218	We have also responded to this, and it is basically a fear of avoiding future taxation, and that is why this is the starting point for the assessment made by the government, which was also part of the previous government's examination of the proposal. So it should not surprise the Left either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184234	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184248	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184316	Thank you. In the summer of 2020, the government and a broad majority of the Danish Parliament signed an agreement on a historically ambitious climate action plan to help Denmark achieve its climate target. According to the Climate Act 2019, we in Denmark will have reduced our CO2 by 2030 compared to 1990. This is one of the world's most ambitious climate targets, and it is of course important, both for our prosperity, but also for the next generations, which will face irreparable challenges if we do not act quickly. The bill we are discussing here today stems from the agreement of this summer and consists of three parts. Firstly, it is proposed to reduce the electric heating tax from 15.5 cents per year. kWh to 0,8 øre per tonne, respectively; kWh for households and 0,4 øre per. kWh for industry. In addition, it is proposed to increase the space heating charge for fossil fuels from DKK 56,7. per GJ to DKK 62,3. per GJ in 2020 prices. Secondly, it proposes a change in the cfc levy, an increase in the tax on certain industrial greenhouse gases by DKK 30. per t CO 2 and to lift the tax ceiling of DKr 600. per kg for certain industrial greenhouse gases. Thirdly, it is proposed to abolish the de minimis limit on the import and manufacture of taxable refrigerants and to index the tax on cfc and certain intangible greenhouse gases. It has to be more expensive to consume black, fossil fuels and cheaper to be green, which makes good sense in relation to the green switch to the green switch to which we are generally in Denmark. Denmark must be greener, and with this bill we will have an important contribution to make, and the Social Democrats will of course support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184528	There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184536	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to start by saying that the CFC rules have nothing to do with the cfc levy, and I do so as a mere advertisement for what we are saying here and so that we can follow it a little bit. I actually looked it up: Cfc stands for chlorofluorocarbons and has nothing to do with controlled foreign companies. So if you listen, don't get confused about it. I shall give a slightly longer introduction here because I shall not repeat what Mr. Troels Ravn said, but simply announce that in the Left we are also in favour of making this kind of change so that we can have a more climate-friendly Denmark. This 70-percent objective is actually one of the most important things. Then it must also be said that when you change the electric heating tax and you change the space heating tax in the way you do here, it actually means relatively much to a lot of companies around. So it is not just that kind of thing to do it; it actually means a great deal to companies out there who need to reorganise a great deal of their way of doing things. We always have to think about that. In the Left, I have to say that we can support this proposal and we look forward to the further implementation of the rules that are coming in order to achieve the 70-percent objective of Denmark's CO2 Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184738	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124184745	The background to the bill is a climate agreement on energy and industry, of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part, so I can already reveal that we support the bill. It is, after all, based on the objective we have set about 70%. reduction of CO2 The solution is briefly stated according to this bill... it's not the whole solution to climate problems... that you make it more expensive to heat up with fossil sources and cheaper to heat up with green electricity. Specifically, the electricity tax is reduced and, on the other hand, the space heating tax on fossil fuels is increased, and this is a good trade, because it provides an incentive for switching to use electricity for heating, for example. via a heat pump or something. But I would actually like to use my speaking time to mention that perhaps another change in the electric heating tax could also be made now that we are in the process of doing so. Already I would say that we respect the agreement that has been made, but we would like to try to discuss the proposal with the Minister and have already proposed it, but it could be that we changed the way we are doing it today. Today it is the case that only after 4,000 kWh per year has been used will you get the low rate of consumption above 4,000 kWh per year. So you have a high rate today on the part below, where you might be able to exchange it, so you started by getting the low rate up to a certain limit and then got the high rate. It would actually give a lot of good effects afterwards and sort of also be more logical. Basically, when we make taxes, we feel that the tax typically increases with increased consumption. Here it's kind of the other way around. If you have low consumption, you have the high electricity tax rate, but if you spend a lot then you get a lower rate. That is actually what we want to change. What should actually be the reason for the fact that there are more than one species is that it should be easier to differentiate between, for example. cottages and summer houses. There is also another discussion on this. It gets better in general if it pays better to save on the flow, like if you change this scheme. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Makes energy renovations, it still pays off, even though you actually live in a heated house. Today it will also typically be the case that if you are older or single, you never get over this limit of the 4,000 kWh per year, so you never get the low rate, but if you changed the model and so changed the two factors, you would actually find that those who have very small consumption pay not only the high rate, but will have an incentive to actually stay down on the low. Today it is the other way round, so those who have really high consumption get the low rate. It doesn't seem entirely logical. It is not an idea that I myself have been making up, but something that is stated in the hearings from among others. Danish Industry and Danish Metal, and I think that is something we should look at in the committee work. And, as I said, I have already asked questions about it. I would also say, in respect of the agreement that we have, of course, reached, that if the parties to the agreement do not agree that it may be a model or a road to go, we will, of course, support the bill anyway. But we really just think it could be an extra incentive to do the right thing in terms of energy renovation of your house or getting a heat pump or something. So it is not something that makes us vote against the bill. Of course, we support that. But we just think it could be an additional improvement that we could take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185101	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185116	It is a great pleasure to be involved today in implementing part of the climate agreement for energy and industry. Here we have a very good example of how it is possible to clean up an old tax system, promote green conversion and harmonise the conditions of competition of companies in one measure. For us in the Radical Left, it is essentially a matter of seeing a large, profound electrification of Denmark's energy consumption, both at home and in the companies. Whatever the power is used for, it has to be cheap and it has to be green. Our power is really well on the way to being 100 percent. Green, so it makes good sense to remove the tax from precisely an energy form that we would like to promote. The logic is still that it has to be more expensive to heat up with fossil sources and cheaper to heat up with green electricity. The charges for space heating and process consumption will be the same and electricity-based surplus heat will no longer be taxed. As a consequence, we are abolishing the rules on excess heat tax for electricity-based surplus heat. I know that many people really appreciate it. We have discussed it many times in recent years. But we are also increasing the space heating charge for fossil fuels. The space heating charge for individual fossil fuels will continue to vary according to the energy content of each fuel, and that is a very good idea. In the Radical Left, we consider this bill to be significantly more than just taking a symbolic step on sneakers towards a green transition. It is actually a solid half-large step, perhaps even with a small jump on it, and we are very, very happy about that, so we warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185251	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185258	Thank you. The SF supports the proposal here. The proposal is based on the climate agreement, which we got in place earlier this year and which, among other things, includes: will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark by 70%. By 2030, and it is clear that, as part of the green transition, we must therefore make it more desirable to use green electricity to heat houses, both privately and in companies. In the environmental field, we have already dealt with a legislative proposal to regulate combustion plants by shutting down old combustion furnaces and demanding the installation of particulate filters in order to reduce the amount of CO2 reductions. We must not just make sure that there is a greener alternative to choose for everyone; we also need to make it attractive to choose the green alternatives. That is why it is a positive direction to move in that we will pay the polluters by raising the tax on fossil sources of heat. However, it is regrettable that, following this tax, the government will still not consider a general greenhouse gas tax for the major industrial polluters in society. Similarly, we believe that with the focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and particulate pollution, a ban on the installation of gas burners should be included. If we do not have the necessary authorisation from the European Union, that decision should be challenged. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185425	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185429	I am a little curious about what SF's policy is actually in relation to green conversion and tax revenue. Because we often hear SF say that they want a green transition, but that it must not cost money in the Treasury, which could have been spent on welfare. This bill costs 850 million. kr. from the Treasury because it has been analysed that we need to lighten some charges here in order to get people to make the green choice. But then there are 850 million. kr. less in the Treasury that SF can use on educators and such things. Has the SF changed position, or has the SF been dragged into this? What's the explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185511	Of course, we have not changed our mind. And the plans we have put forward in relation to green conversion also include various other taxes and places where we want to raise taxes in order to secure more money in the box, which we can also spend on the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185525	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185525-2	But SF is in favour of this bill, which doesn't contain everything else that SF wants to do. In other words, this proposal alone will lead to 850 million. kr. less in the Treasury, which SF cannot then use on minimum ratings for educators and other public employees. So you couldn't stand outside a green deal, even if it led to something you didn't want, or what's the explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185554	You have to look at the overall picture. Well, you can see that this cost some money in isolation. Then we'll have to find some money somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185601	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185611	Thank you. I'm here again on behalf of Mr. Simpson. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur. The Enhedslisten is included in the climate agreement on energy and industry, and the elements we are discussing today are the tax-related changes agreed in this agreement. We are very pleased with these changes. They point in a clear green direction, and we are satisfied with that. However, we must emphasise once again that that agreement is only a very small step on the road to achieving the 70-percent target compared to the reduction by 2030. It is positive that we are making the electric heat, which is increasingly produced green, much cheaper, while, on the other hand, we are making it more expensive to use fossil fuels for space heating. In addition, we also have a clear tightening-up in relation to the charges on the particularly harmful cfc gases. This means that you actually pay an appropriate price for the harmful gases you send out. That is not something that is giving much in the Treasury, but that is not the point of the proposal either. The point of the proposal is to limit emissions of particularly harmful gases as much as we possibly can. That is why Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185721	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. The rapporteur has to stay here for a second. It's for mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185729	I just want to say thank you to the Enhedslisten for the relatively large tax relief that lies in this proposal. But I would also like to hear Enhedslisten about this: you do not want to pursue green policy by lightening taxes and taxes that lead to fewer crowns in the treasury, which you cannot then spend on what you call welfare. Is it gone now? Has the Enhedslisten also acknowledged that we will probably have to accept fewer tax dollars in the Treasury if we want to facilitate the green choices for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185801	Now we feel that way in the Enhedslisten, and I really do think so, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen knows if he thinks a little about how we think that there is a lot of money to get to the Treasury if we put some taxes at the top of society to make some relief elsewhere. We think it is very sensible to go in and make it so that it is actually easier to have a green consumption and harder to have a black consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185829	Thank you. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185831	Well, I totally agree with that, but it's just that Enhedslisten has said so often that when you pursue green policy, it must not lead to less money in the Treasury, and this bill does. It's actually almost a billion. And it is very good if the Enhedslisten has now come to the realization that it is possible to pursue green policy, even if it costs the Treasury, but could one put it into words on the part of Enhedslisten: that we have regretted that we once said that it must never cost the Treasury a penny to conduct green policy, that green politics can justify less money in the Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185903	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185904	What is most crucial to our green policy in the Enhedslisten is that it should not create more inequality. That is what is crucial for us and is the guiding principle throughout, and it has also been in this energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185917	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124185922	I shall try not to do it too technically; I understand that you have changed today. But I would like to ask you something, because Enhedslisten himself mentions this, namely that it should not be wrong and that it should be the rich who have to be taxed. But with this limit now being introduced on the 4,000 kWh, there are a lot of lonely pensioners, people who live for themselves who don't get a prize, while people who live in the big houses, people who may have more cars that they have to charge, maybe a Tesla, and everything else, will get a bigger saving than those who don't get over this limit. So I would like to ask what Enhedslisten thinks of this and whether we should not set the limit, so that single people, pensioners and people living in smaller housing also benefit from these tax reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190010	I must be honest and say that I am not the rapporteur in this area on a daily basis, and the answer will simply bear the stamp of that. After all, we do not think that we should miss the mark, that is to say that it should not turn the heavy end down when we make the green transition. But we have considered this proposal to be so good that we can support it. That's why we're in the deal. I know that this is an inadequate answer, but I am simply a daily rapporteur for the law and for foreigners, so I do not have a better answer to Mr Beazley's question. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190044	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190045	No, and I fully understand that, but it could be that Mr. Rune Lund had written something about what you could bring. But I fully understand that it has not been achieved. But it may be that the rapporteur will take it with him to the original rapporteur in this area, so that we can get his position on it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190101	I would certainly like to do so, and I would also like to examine for myself what the answer really is. Because it is important for us in the Enhedslisten, when we make the green transition, that it will not hit the wrong side, even for pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190118	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190133	I can tell you that we also support the bill. This is part of an agreement that we are also involved in, a good green climate agreement, and we are also pleased, like the Liberal Alliance, that Enhedslisten also supports the relatively large tax relief that is in this bill, with a particularly large tax rebate for people living in large houses. We think this is very good, especially since it is of benefit to the environment that, with a better tax structure, we encourage the use of more green energy sources, thereby promoting a green conversion and a reduction in CO2 so we welcome the bill and look forward to its adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190215	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190223	It is the implementation of an agreement that we in the New Citizens' Party are not part of. Some of the elements are to be welcomed, we are always grateful for a tax reduction, and then there is a tax increase that we are not so happy with. Overall, it is a lowering, and that is positive. But we also want the bill to be divided, because then we can vote in favour of the tax reductions that we want and vote against the tax increases that we do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190247	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190256	Danish fiscal policy does not lack additional taxes to enable us to pursue a green policy in Denmark. On the contrary, the fact that some parties would like to introduce a general registration fee, for example. Green cars prevent us from having a green transition in Denmark from car transport, and here we also see an example: that we have had such a high tax on electric heating, and that somewhere else we have a high tax on electricity at all, counteracts the green transition at a time when we want people to switch from other sources of energy to electricity, because we can produce electricity green through wind turbines and solar and, at some point, perhaps also other renewable energy sources. This bill addresses a small corner of this and abolishes the electric heating charge. On the other hand, there is a small increase in the space heating tax, which is achieved by firing fossil fuels. But overall, the draft law is a relief, so we are pursuing green policy by reducing taxes in Denmark as a whole. It is right after the book of the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we have been involved in the agreement and we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Finally, we welcome the Minister of Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190442	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for your support for the bill here, which is, of course, the implementation of our large, broad climate agreement for energy and industry before the summer recess. We agree that Denmark should be a green pioneering country. We have this in the government with you here in the Danish Parliament, in other words all those who are behind the climate agreements, confirmed. We have confirmed each other that we must achieve a very ambitious climate target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. This requires targeted action and a radical transformation of our society, but we owe it to future generations and we owe it to them to act now so that we can ensure that these are not the ones we leave the bill with. With the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry from June 2020 concluded between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative, we reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approx. 3.4 million t up to 2030. This proposal implements parts of the agreement. Specifically, the bill aims to support the green conversion of the Danes' heat consumption by, as has already been suggested, making it more expensive to heat up fossil fuels such as coal and oil and cheaper to heat up with electricity, which is increasingly based on renewable energy. The aim of the bill is also to reduce the use of climate-damaging greenhouse gases. The climate agreement takes a significant step on the road to Denmark's 70 per cent climate target. and, of course, the ambition to make Denmark a green pioneering country. The climate agreement is followed by the proposal for a green tax reform, which the government presented yesterday. A key step in a green tax reform is to set up the tax system so that it supports the green transition to a greater extent. This means that there must be both a more uniform across-the-board taxation and that a greater proportion of emissions over time should actually be covered by a new tax system. As an important part of the green conversion of Danes' heat consumption, it is proposed to significantly reduce the electric heating tax for households and industries, so that the electric heating tax will correspond to the minimum rates of the Energy Taxation Directive. The reduction in the electricity tax will greatly increase the incentive to use heat pumps and other heat pumps in private homes, in district heating production and in business. In addition, there will no longer be a tax on electricity-based surplus heat. The heat from e.g. In this way, data centres can be used duty-free for the benefit of households. It is also proposed to increase the space heating charge for fossil fuels. An increase in the space heating charge will mean that there will be a shift from black to green heat, if you like, while there will be a greater incentive to use less energy. It can, for example, be done. be energy-efficient or perhaps also energy-renovate. It is also proposed to increase the tax on certain industrial greenhouse gases by DKK 30. per t CO 2 2 It is also proposed that the tax ceiling for certain industrial greenhouse gases should be abolished so that the tax on all gases corresponds to the pressure on the climate of the gas, and it is proposed that the de minimis limit on the import and manufacture of taxable refrigerants and that the tax on cfc and certain industrial greenhouse gases should be indexed so that tax rates are not eroded in the future. The tax on certain greenhouse gases and the abolition of the tax ceiling will help to reduce the use of climate-damaging gases in the Danish economy. It is good for the environment, it is good for Danish business, and it is good for opportunities to also win new jobs and ensure new green growth, so thank you for the debate today. I am, of course, at the disposal of the Parliamentary Committee with answers to questions that have to be answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190925	And there is. But first of all, thank you to the tax minister. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190930	Well, there is. Because I came to think that when we get all our electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030, is it the government's view that electricity should still be taxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190940	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190942	It is a very hypothetical question, but it is only good that the greener our consumption becomes, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190949	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124190950	It may be hypothetical, but it is not that far in the future if people make 10 years of investment and everything else; they do that, and from 2020 onwards it will be 2030. It is not unusual to make 10 years of investment. So I'm just thinking, if all power is green and is renewable and not polluting, why should it be coated with a charge? That's just what I'm wondering... do you think about it? I would have liked the government to have thought about it. After all, there is no logic in taxing something that is entirely green and renewable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191019	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191020	No, and it can be said that the logic followed in fiscal policy at least in recent years is that it must be cheaper to be green and more expensive to be black. But it is clear that if you do this kind of shift in the tax sector in particular, then with the tax rates that we have had so far in this area, if you do not move around on the tax, there will have to be funding for it elsewhere. That, of course, is the challenge. But there is no doubt that the government's line with the green tax reform yesterday is that it has to be more expensive to be black and cheaper to be green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191050	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191121	The debate is open and the first rapporteur to whom we should welcome is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191128	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are discussing here today translates parts of the Finance Act for 2020 concluded between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The 2020 Finance Act ensures the greatest increase in welfare in over 10 years and strengthens education and the green transition. Specifically, the draft law contains three of the priority funding initiatives from that agreement. Firstly, a packaging tax on PVC foils is reintroduced at a double rate of taxation compared to the previous level of taxation. We know that PVC creates problems in waste management, as PVC contains chlorine which, by incineration, contributes to a significant increase in residues which are harmful in nature. At the same time, it is proposed that the tax be indexed in order to ensure consistency with the other taxes contained in the Packaging Tax Act. Secondly, an increase in the tax rate for betting and online casinos is proposed from 20 to 28 per cent. of gross gambling income. We know that more people have become addicted to gambling and have become gamblers over the years. The initiatives are therefore also aimed at reducing consumption at stake and reducing the problems of gambling. Thirdly, there is a so-called interest rate adjustment so that no higher rate of deduction from interest costs than from private purchases of housing can be obtained when renting accommodation to related persons. In this way there is a schematic correction of the housing in the corporate and capital return schemes, although the housing continues to be included in the schemes. The abolition of parents' purchases in the business system will particularly affect people at the upper end of income distribution. With the proposal, wealthy parents who today buy an apartment and rent it to their children through the enterprise scheme will receive the same interest relief as other private buyers. The proposal does not intend to prevent parents buying an apartment and renting it to their children, but must only ensure that this does not happen with a tax concession. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191341	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are brief comments, so the rapporteur must stay here for a moment. The first brief remark is to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191351	Thank you. This bill clearly states in relation to the increase in the gaming fee that half of the proceeds will be lost in behavior and backflow. And a very large part of it will go to the black market. It's a pretty massive amount that goes to the black market. What is the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that the black market will grow by 9%? In the long run, according to answers I've received?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191419-2	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that it is important for social democracy and for the government that we have the gambling market regulated, but in such a way that we do not open up the black market. We must regulate so that we do not motivate players to enter foreign sites and play on the black market. And this level of channelling, which is an expression of the proportion of gambling consumption of online casinos consumed by regulated gambling providers in Denmark, has fortunately been increasing since the liberalisation of the market in 2012. Consumption in the unregulated market is estimated to increase as a result of the tax increase here. However, we will keep a close eye on the level of channelling and be ready for intervention if it develops inappropriately.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191525	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191527	Now this bill doesn't change the regulation of the gambling market. The regulation has been agreed in a broad area of agreement, which happened when we had government power, because we appreciated that things had been agreed in broad circles. So the regulation doesn't change with this bill. I hope the rapporteur can confirm this. All you do is raise the tax by 8 percentage points, and that gives an extra revenue, but the vast majority of the extra revenue is actually going away because you have landed in a place where it does not give much to increase the tax, as the black market is growing so badly. How will the rapporteur help gambling if they get to play on the black market because the black market is growing? How, then, are you supposed to help gambling people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191606	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191606-2	It is true that it is clearly the motivation of the government that we must have reduced the game in the unregulated market and in unregulated gambling providers. It is very important that we have revenue so that we can also take action in relation to the prevention of gambling. And what we will be watching is to protect consumers and protect the estimated proceeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191644	The next short remark is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191650	There are three elements in the proposal, of course, but I would also like to ask about the issue of the gambling tax, which is increasing from 20% to 28%, and where the argument is, as the debate also shows, that this should protect gambling people. But the consequence of that is that SIFA TVBingo closes, and I would really just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether one has the impression that it is simply there that the gambling people sit and enjoy themselves with a blow of bingo. I mean, why is it that it has to shut down the many elderly people who sit and enjoy themselves? That is, of course, the consequence of the fact that the tax is now being raised by 8%. So I am a little out of comprehension about whether that is where it is believed there are huge problems with gambling since you are now closing SIFA TVBingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191726	Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191728	We have had a visit from SIFA TVBingo, and I have also had close contact with SIFA TVBingo. It has not been possible, unfortunately, to give TV bingo an advantage over other gambling providers of online bingo in the form of a tax rebate or the possibility of deducting production costs, because this would be contrary to the European Union; it would be contrary to the State aid scheme. However, we have seen that it may be possible to change the rules which impose restrictions on bingo via television. There are today, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It is the case that SIFA TVBingo does a very good job, among other things. for the non-profit-making society in North Jutland, and this is a work that we would like to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191829	Thank you. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191830	It is true that SIFA TVBingo is actually doing a very good job, both in order to combat the loneliness of the people who actually have a good and positive experience of sitting and participating in such a game, but also because the money is actually going to good ends, to the association life and the many associations around mainly Aalborg, who get something out of these funds. And that's also why it's incomprehensible that when you say you want to fight gambling, you get to close this good company. Why is it that, as a Social Democrat, we do not want to be involved in simply finding another category for them? Well, right now they are classified as a gambling company, which aims just to make money, like Unibet and Danske Games. Shouldn't you find another category for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191908	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191908-2	That's not true. Well, we certainly have no intention of shutting down SIFA TVBingo. As I also said, it is very good action that is being taken there, in relation to sports associations and to the general good, and that is why we also have a good dialogue with SIFA TVBingo, and the Ministry of Taxation is looking at the possibilities for possible adjustments to the rules for TV bingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191938	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124191943	I would like to continue a little along the same lines, because I was so pleased when I saw the rapporteur and myself on the same television broadcast, where the rapporteur said that it should not go against television bingo banko, as I think the rapporteur called it. The rapporteur said that he would go to the tax minister and then they would find a solution, but I understand from the rapporteur that perhaps some work is being done, so the rapporteur can tell me: Will SIFA TVBingo close or will they not close?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192014	I certainly hope SIFA TVBingo will not close. As I said several times, SIFA TVBingo stands for in Aalborg, North Jutland. Very many sports associations and many children benefit from the activities supported by SIFA TVBingo. It is enough to tighten it up a little when the rapporteur on the Left says that I should have said on television that we should probably find a solution. I have said that I wanted to pass the matter on to the tax minister, and I have done so, and that is why the Ministry of Taxation is looking at the possibilities for possible adjustments to the rules of SIFA TVBingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192057	You just have to remember to get back in. But here you go, Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192101	Should I understand that if SIFA TVBingo, which delights a lot of older people and 200 associations every year, is going to close, then it's just sad, and that's just too bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192114-2	I do not understand how the rapporteur can come to that conclusion. That's definitely not what I'm saying. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to give SIFA TVBingo an advantage over other gaming providers, but as I said, the Treasury is looking at the possibilities for adjusting the rules in favour of SIFA TVBingo. There is no doubt that SIFA TVBingo is responsible for some very good activities in relation to the general interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192143	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192146	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur to be able to explain in concrete terms how this increase in taxation will mean that fewer people are playing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192156-2	I do not think I have postulated that there are fewer people who want to play on the basis of this tax increase. However, the government has found that this is an appropriate tax increase and that it has found a rental that is appropriate. Overall, of course, it is also true that we are getting revenue here, which will be used for initiatives and actions which will also benefit our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192226	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192228	I simply do not understand any of that, because the bill says directly: "The tax increase is expected to increase the price and thus reduce the consumption of bets...· So, it is stated in the government's own bill. I assume the rapporteur has read that. It says it will reduce it, and then I just ask how it will reduce it. If you say that it is because the price gets higher, then the argument of gambling falls to the ground, because what defines gambling is precisely that you cannot say no to gambling, even if it becomes more expensive and even if you lose your money. If that's the whole point, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192300	I'm not postulating that with this bill we're going to limit the number of gambling people, but it's really, really important that we have a field of action to prevent gambling. That is why we will also be keeping an eye on the level of channelling, as I have also said in some of my comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192323	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192332	Thank you for the floor. Agriculture, green technology, welfare and equality are some of the many things Denmark is known for in the world. But we are actually known for one more thing, and this is probably surprising for most people, because we are known for having one of the world's most secure and well-regulated markets for betting, online gambling, slot machines and casinos, and that is because in 2010 we took responsibility for making broad agreements on the liberalisation of the gambling market, ensuring security for citizens, transparency for companies and a gambling fee that can benefit and where the money goes to good ends. Consumer protection is high, and the illegal and black gambling market is very small compared to our neighbouring countries, and from the outside it also seems that, with this 8 percentage points increase, the government is now putting the safety of Danish consumers at risk in an ideological crusade. For the government defends its ideological desire to raise the gaming fee with the bill to reduce the consumption of gambling and reduce problems with gambling addiction. But that doesn't hold out, because a tax increase of such a nature as this proposal does will increase the amount of gambling going on on foreign sites on the black market rather than on the Danish market, and will give rise to a huge increase in this black market. The Minister even confirms this in an answer to a question from last year, and here it was said that the Minister of Taxation estimates that the tax increase on bets and online casinos from 20 per cent. 28 per cent. From 1 January 2021, an increased level of gambling on the unregulated gambling market will result in a decrease of approx. 9% in the long term. It is violent, it is a marked increase in the black market, and when it is that the black market increases so much, consumer protection disappears, because there is no consumer protection when Danish players play on foreign sites. So this doesn't help at all to reduce gambling, but it provides a breeding ground for a jungle of unregulated games, and we think that is really a pity, because we think that we have taken responsibility together. When we have been in government, we have chosen to make broad agreements in this area to ensure that we took responsibility widely, to ensure that we had a well-regulated gambling market, and that throws a total red block with the financial bill of last year's draft just gravel. I am disappointed because I think that we had made some good agreements, and I think that this is a breach of the agreement we had in this area. The draft law here contains several elements: it is a little a collection of strange proposals, and what they have in common is that they all come from the draft budget last year. The next proposal that I would like to address is the purchase of parents in the return on business and capital. The government had said that it would completely remove parents' purchases from the corporate tax scheme. This has been found to cause some problems, because it is not possible to move housing out and out of the corporate tax system, and therefore instead of setting up a schematic interest rate regime. This means that, if you are close to a self-employed person, you have to use this schematic system, and the related ones are parents, grandparents, children and their spouses and grandchildren and their spouses. But funny enough, if you're not married to the person you live with, but you're just a boyfriend and you don't have children in common, you can buy an apartment for your boyfriend's children, because it's not covered by this limitation on how to make the corporate tax scheme. I have to say that we in the Left do not in fact find it a disadvantage to help your children on the way. In fact, we think it is positive that you take responsibility for your children getting on well. It is positive that you help them get a place to stay when they have to study, instead of having to take a dormitory from someone else. So ideologically, we disagree with the government on this proposal, but besides that, there are so many gaps in this proposal, so many ways to bypass these rules that it just causes even more chaos. This is going to be done, I don't know how many creative solutions in the housing market are deeply worrying. Why is it problematic that you should help your children? And why do people have to make such an arrangement that you buy an apartment for your friends' children and then buy an apartment for your children? This is something weird, and that is what you end up in with such a strange regulation. The last part of the bill concerns the reintroduction of levies on PVC films. It was a tax that we, the Left, removed when we had the power of government, and we did so because we had set up a committee of bureaucracy to look at how to remove some troublesome taxes which did not generate very much revenue, but which gave a lot of bureaucratic trouble and trouble and work. This one was one of them, and it does not help to reduce the environmental impact, because there are no alternatives to PVC films, and that is a relatively small revenue, but with very much administrative trouble, and that is why we cannot support simply reintroducing a tax in which the proceeds do not measure up to the fuss there is. So all in all I have to say that the Left cannot support either of the three parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124192902	After all, we are dealing here with the implementation of a financial law designed to increase taxes. Everyone had to be poorer, inequality also had to increase, and all to finance a series of red promises. Here, then, there are three of the elements we are discussing today, the first of which is the reintroduction of the packaging tax on PVC films. In order for people to be able to relate to what it is, I would say that it is a tax on wrapping films and on household films. There I think most people will say that it is of course quite a mess and that you should not use it when you cover your food for it, so there has to be a tax on it. Not only do you simply reinstate it, but you double it compared to the previous one. I would actually like to ask the Minister, when he comes to the floor, to explain what the effect is of this. Because you write that the expectation is that it will make a contribution to a reduced environmental impact, and when you write it, you have to know what the effect is. The reason I want to know is that when we abolished the tax, the office said to us politicians, and it is after all the same official work, although it is another minister that it could be abolished, because it had virtually no behavioural effect. On the other hand, it was very administratively heavy, but the effect on the environment was virtually non-existent. As I do not assume that this has changed, since the office has not been replaced, I think that the new government must also be able to answer what indicates that it has a good effect to reinstate this tax. The reason why we in the Danish People's Party are very sceptical is that no other countries in the European Union have chosen to tax it here, and perhaps there is a good reason for that. This is partly because it is actually regulated quite well by the European Union. There will even be product liability in 2024, and it is also said by the Treasury itself in the consultation note that one might have to reconsider whether there should be a tax at all from 2024. For all other countries, there has already been no need to do so. So we do not support that part of the Danish People's Party. Then there is the second part about tax on gambling and betting. It may be Oddset, or it may be an online casino where the fee is raised from 20 to 28 per cent. The aim, it is said, is to reduce gambling. But when you make such a big increase in the tax, it almost goes without saying that then the game will move as well. This, of course, has the effect that more will just be illegal games forward-looking, and there you will not catch the gamblers. Today, it is actually a very good market we have. Ninety-two percent. of all games are done according to the rules and are legal, and 8 per cent. is illegal. In a second comment, I would like to mention, in comparison, that it is 53 per cent in Norway that is illegal. So we actually have a very good model in Denmark, and you're about to lose it. But what's the problem with this being illegal? Yeah, well, you just can't get hold of these gamblers who are in trouble, the gamblers. When you have a licence in Denmark today, it is actually required that you, for example, be given a licence in Denmark. refer to a gambling line. We have a ROFUS register where you can exclude yourself, but it's all something that's tied up that there's this license in Denmark. So when the game is going to become much more illegal, you also lose the opportunity to help those people who actually have problems with gambling. So this is not a good way to regulate it. Then I would also like to say something else about raising the tax. There is not such a law of nature that says that exactly 20%. is the golden cut and the place where it should lie. An 8 per cent increase. At the same time it is too much, but let us just ask the parties behind the Finance Act, which my own party does not do, why, after all, it has not just been gradually raised. Why didn't you start by raising it to 21%? and has waited a year and seen what the experience was, how many gamblers came and how much became illegal games? The following year it could then be set up to 22 per cent. Why do you take this giant leap? I know the answer. That is because it is a source of funding for the Red Finance Act. As has already been mentioned in the debate, there is something else that is also bad, and that is that it has as a consequence that SIFA TVBingo has something that people, typically older people, are having fun with • going to close. It goes beyond a lot of good associations • a few hundred pieces in the Aalborg area, which then does not get a helping hand from the profit that comes. That's the consequence of raising this tax. Then there is one last element I would like to mention, if time permits. It is not easy when there are three proposals in a legislative proposal. But it's about tightening up the rules on parent purchase. This means that you get a lower deduction if you rent out to your children, grandchildren or parents. It is a question of changing the rules on the higher rate of deduction of interest costs. It is written that it has to be done schematically by means of a so-called interest rate correction. I must honestly say that when I read the bill, I do not think it is very simple. One imagines that when something happens schematically, one can go to the tax administration's website and find the schedule and just look up. That is not what we are talking about. On the contrary, it becomes quite complicated and it is a complicated area in advance. But like the Left, I just want to say that the great appeal is that the model that has been found is easy to deal with. I have a neighbor who has children of the same age as mine. If I rent out to my own child, I get a lower interest rate allowance. I'm gonna rent out to the next-door kid, and he's gonna do the same with my kid, and we're gonna get a higher deduction. If you have a rental property with five different leases, of which your child rents one, then you have to make it up to it. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council. ) I'm sorry I don't have time to finish it. After all, it is the government that has chosen to pool various proposals in one so that we cannot deal with it properly in the Folketing. But we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193425	Thank you. All rapporteurs have five minutes, so that's it. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. I just want to remind you that you have to keep your distance in the Chamber. We make a great deal of it when there are votes. There must be an empty chair between Members. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Kathrine Oldag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193447	We are here with three proposals in a package. These are all three from the Financial Bill 2020. The first thing I want to address is what's about parents' purchases. As it is now, a parent purchase can be registered as a private company. This leads to certain tax advantages for the owner of the apartment. We do not believe that there should be any special advantages when buying an opportunity for the immediate family, and that abolishing the company scheme does not prevent parents from buying an apartment and helping their children, but that there should be an extra tax advantage, we cannot see the fair in it. For the sake of understanding, as another rapporteur also pointed out, I would just like to mention that it is not the purchase of parents in the company scheme itself that is being abolished. That is the tax advantage alone. We are all in favour of that. When we originally got this idea a few years ago, we really wanted the proceeds to go to a youth housing fund for youth housing in the major study towns, so that the money could be directed to where there might be a housing need. There was no mood for this in connection with the 2021 Finance Act. I can say that in a rather half-biter way here on Parliament's platform and point out. Then the proposal is also about an increase in the tax on betting and online casino from 20%. 28 per cent. The aim of increasing the tax is, of course, both to reduce consumption at stake and to reduce problems with gambling. Charges push on behavior, as we all know. Radical Left made the agreement with open eyes understood in the sense that we are fully aware that the tax may also have the derived behavioral consequence that some players will jump onto the black market, i.e. on the illegal. It is also included in the original revenue calculation, where you can see that there are some violent behavior effects of this proposal. We look forward to trying to stem this when, at some point, we, together with the government and the parties to the conciliation, embark on discussions on the whole area of gambling. So we know that there are challenges and we share the concerns of other parties and we will take responsibility for a solution when we get there. Then we come to the third part of the bill, which we believe should be given the greatest attention right now. In fact, it is a question of reintroducing the packaging charge for PVC film with a double tax rate compared to the previous level of taxation and of indexing the tax to ensure consistency with the other taxes in the Packaging Tax Act. Here it is absolutely crucial for us that we have actually agreed with the government that a solution must be found for companies that recycle plastics. As the legal process also revealed last year, I remember that Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left made an exemplary nerdy review of how bad it was for recycled plastic • this proposal is really bad for companies that rely on recycling, and this is not really the way we want to go, but it is because the tax is calculated by weight and recycled plastic weighs more than new plastics, as Mrs Marie Bjerre also went through. We must therefore have that in place before the third reading. Perhaps it would be a good thing if an answer had already been given to this, that the Minister of Taxation should explain it at the end, because it has been dealt with in a different circle of politicians than the one we are in here. So there is just a delay in one part of the bill, which we all support. And I'll say hello from the SF and they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193810	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193815	I read the Stock Exchange today, and the rapporteur of the Radicals has said that we have to ask whether we have put the tax too high on the gaming fee. The parties behind the agreement will have to make a round of negotiations on the gaming market, probably after Christmas. In fact, it was my impression that the gambling agreement would have been negotiated with all parties in the Folketing. However, since we are not part of the increase in the gaming fee, I do not suppose that the rapporteur believes that the rapporteur will negotiate that we should pay for your troubles. So I just want to hear: where is it that the rapporteur wants to take it? And will the rapporteur really do something? Then I should also like to thank the rapporteur for saying that the rapporteur is going to do something about this recycling of plastics. Because it is paradoxical that it is claimed that something has a positive environmental effect when it actually has a negative environmental effect. So I would certainly like to reach out and say that we in the Left would like to help solve the issue of recycled plastics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124193920	That sounds good. I thank you for that. Compared to what is stated in the Stock Exchange, this rapporteur has become a little bit wiser since the statements on that article. It was quite frankly that I did not participate in last year's negotiations, and fortunately I have had the honour of being able to participate in this year, and that simply means that the finger is much more on the pulse than what has been said in the negotiating rooms and also where our own party's assessments have been. So I was also quite surprised when I saw the answers which the Left has then also presented. And, yes, I do think that these are quite violent behavior impacts that we are facing, but I think that when we talk about how we can stem this, we will try to accommodate that. Because this is an agreement that we have reached, which we are firmly committed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194013	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194014	I actually found it a little difficult, excuse me, to understand exactly what the Radicals are going to do about it. Will radicals work to reduce the tax again so that we do not have such a black and unregulated gambling market? Or how do radicals actually plan to solve this? Or will Radicals just give up because it is a settlement that has been reached last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194035	Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194036	We are not going to propose that the tax be reduced again. The money we would then have to spend on it, we would like to spend on something else. I mean, a lower gaming fee is not on our wish list, so I can say quite clearly that it will be 28 per cent. as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194054	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194106	Thank you. I'm still a substitute for the tax rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund. In the Enhedslisten, we are very pleased with the three elements included in the 2020 Finance Act which, together with a number of other initiatives, help to finance a boost in welfare, for example. more beds in psychiatry, more teachers in kindergarten and a number of other improvements. These are three very good proposals that we have before us today. The abolition of the parental purchasing system is the closure of an unfair tax gap. Up to now, parents who buy and rent a home to their immediate family have obtained an interest rate allowance which is almost 50%. It's bigger than when you rent out to a stranger. This means that the people who have been wealthy enough to buy a home for their children have benefited extra from an additional interest deduction from their housing speculation. It is an inequality-creating tax gap which costs the Treasury nearly 0.25 billion. kr. Every year, which we are now closing. We are very pleased with this in the Enhedslisten. We are also pleased to reinstate the levy on PVC films. It was a complete hole in the head that the previous government abolished this tax. Now we're gonna reinstate the tax and double it. This is both positive for the environment and helps to ensure that we can finance the increase in welfare that we agreed with last year's Finance Act. It is also positive that we are now increasing the tax rate for betting and online casinos. That doesn't just mean we have 150 million. kr. more to welfare per year, but it also means that we are going to reduce the consumption of gambling and limit gambling. All in all, this bill is a small but a good example of how we can finance the welfare improvements we need in a green and socially fair way, and we look forward to it in the Enhedslisten to vote through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194303	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194308	One would like to justify the policy one votes for, with such words as putting an end to tax speculation. But all of Denmark knows that this has Enhedslisten's leader, Mrs Pernille Skipper himself. Are there no limits to the hypocrisy of the Enhedslisten? So, first, the leader does it, that is, with the parents' apartment and great profit with tax speculation, and then you stand here in the Chamber and you call it tax speculation and you speak against it. How is it possible in a party to do so and to condemn it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194346	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194347	Well, that's just how it is, I'd say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that we have always opposed parent purchase and parent purchase schemes and property speculations. This is precisely why, together with the government, we have made an agreement that changes section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2, which closes another hole in our housing market, just as this closes a hole in our housing market. I think it makes sense to put an end to property speculation in the case of parents' purchases, and that is what we have always meant in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194422	Is there another brief comment? There is. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194423	Well, I understand that you can have the political position, but why is it that the political leader of Enhedslisten does it himself? If you are against it and think it is too bad and it is speculation etc., can you just do it yourself? I guess you're not so much against it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194445	I cannot, of course, stand here and answer things about Mrs Pernille Skipper's private economy and private housing, which I would think would be a little strange. I can just point out to Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, that we're happy with this deal, and we think it's really sensible. And so it is the case that today there are many rules in Denmark that we in the Enhedslisten disagree with, but which we still live under.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194509	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194526	I think there have been some excellent contributions from other citizens who have gone into a lot of detail about all the ills that exist in this bill in the form of a lot of different tax increases. I would like to make it shorter and just say that the Conservative People's Party does not, of course, help to make a number of tax increases, which will be used to finance a red Finance Act. That's why we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194554	Thank you. It is a hopeless proposal from a hopeless financial law that made everyone poorer, and here we have the consequence of it. The idea that you can get fewer gamblers by making it more expensive for them to play well is as if you don't understand it at all. I would recommend that you go in and look at the definition of gambling addiction. It's a morbid urge to play for money, and you can't help it. All you get out of it is that now they just have less money for other things, because they will keep playing. It is the same as raising the beer tax for alcoholics. Well, that logic! That's classic. The logic is just not there. And at the same time you want to make it more expensive for people to lubricate their lunches. Well, congratulations. This is absolutely not something we in the New Citizens' Party will be supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194701	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124194709	As others have said before me, these three tax increases are the result of the Finance Act entered into by the government with the red part of the Folketing for 2020. I would like to address the fact that it is already well described that the Finance Act made all social groups poorer in Denmark. All income groups became poorer. The 10 per cent who have the least money in Denmark became poorer by the Finance Act. The people in the middle became poorer by the Finance Act. The people at the top got poorer by that finance bill. And one of the elements that makes the people who have the least in Denmark the hardest hit by the Finance Act is the gaming fee. Because we know, when we know the gambling market, that those who play the most are not the richest in Denmark. In general terms, if you want to be rich, you should not spend your money at stake, because you know you will get poorer if you play enough. These are income groups who do not have too much money and who dream that they might be among the lucky ones who could get some more money if they were to play up some of their money. And then they get some extra tax, some extra tax with this bill, which is the implementation of the 2020 Finance Act that the government has entered into with, among other things. The Enhedslisten and the SF, who went to the polls for poverty in Denmark and who promised in the election campaign to end poverty. People would be given more money in the groups where poverty was thought to exist. This bill and the entire financial law that it is part of do exactly the opposite. It ensures that the groups with the lowest income in Denmark will have even less room for manoeuvre in relation to their income, because the charges imposed on them include: cigarettes and games get taller. That is why inequality in Denmark is also increasing as a result of the Finance Act and as a result of this proposal to put more taxes at risk. It is, of course, an electoral deception, like the red block that stands together, that is to say, to go to the polls for there to be poor people in Denmark and that they need more money, and then, in fact, a policy that ensures that they get less money. It's an electoral deception, and I don't understand how to do it. I do not understand how one can stand in one assembly after another, one television recording after another, and say that one will make sure that people get more money, and then, in fact, when one comes to power, one makes sure that people get less money. I think that's a mystery. It is also a mystery that the press does not treat it a little more harshly, but that is evidently the case. We are voting against this bill because we are not in favour of raising taxes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195023	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195029	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the support for the bill from the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which is, of course, part of the agreement on the Finance Act, and which helps to ensure a change of direction in how we prioritise, among other things. the welfare of the future. That's why there's one of them. on the basis of this bill, the possibility of employing 1,000 more nurses, the possibility of introducing minimum standards, the possibility of providing better help for people living with mental disorders, and the possibility of investing more in the education of our children and young people. Not least, the Finance Act allowed us to create a more green Denmark with a significantly stronger climate effort and a shift in climate policy, so that we no longer need climate ministers in Denmark, who are appointed as the fossil of the year at international climate conferences, but are praised for making a difference to the climate and the environment. Of course, all these things require funding, and with this bill, as has rightly been said, three funding initiatives have been chosen, and they are, of course, also proposed to be implemented. The first is the reintroduction of the packaging tax on PVC films. There is no doubt that nature and the environment face major challenges which require action to ensure a green and sustainable future for future generations. That is why, of course, we in the circle behind the Finance Act also agree to strengthen efforts for a better environment and to create more nature. This will contribute to the government's ambitious targets for climate and nature, but also to support the broad agreement in the Folketing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. It is therefore proposed to reintroduce and double the tax on the packaging of foodstuffs containing PVC films, i.e. wrapper film, household film and the like. The initiative will help reduce waste and create incentives for Danish companies to use smaller packaging. Then we will also increase the tax rate for betting and online casino. This is of course important, and we agree that the Danish gambling market is balanced, so we have both an attractive gambling market and also a regulation that protects players. Of course, I am thinking particularly of those players who depend on gambling. The parties to the agreement behind the Finance Act therefore also agree that more needs to be done to reduce the consumption of gambling and to reduce the problems of gambling. With an increase in the tax on betting and online casino, we can obtain additional revenue to finance welfare while reducing the consumption of gambling. That is why it is proposed, as has already been suggested, to increase the tax from 20%. 28 per cent. The tax advantage resulting from parents' purchases under the corporate and capital return scheme will then also be abolished. Nowadays, it is possible to rent housing to a related and at the same time obtain a tax advantage in the form of a higher tax value of interest costs. This is the case where the company and capital return scheme is applied. The draft law proposes that this tax advantage be abolished so that interest expenses relating to the rental of accommodation to related persons receive the same deduction value as private interest expenditure. Specifically, it is proposed to be implemented in the enterprise scheme by means of a model with a schematic interest rate adjustment, which it states is simple to administer for both the independent operators and the tax authorities. As regards the return on capital, it is proposed that parent purchase should no longer be included in the capital return base. The proposed schematic model has been welcomed in the context of the external consultation, and my impression is that a fine balance has been found whereby the concrete initiative is implemented in a sensible and also administratively manageable manner, as it says. Once again, however, I would like to thank the parties behind the Financial Law Agreement. It is good that we can adopt initiatives that help to ensure that Denmark can make progress again in a wide range of areas, and this bill contributes to this with funding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195505	Thanks for the speech. There are some brief comments. The first to be welcomed is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195512	There are a lot of things that could be asked here, because that is one hopeless suggestion after another. But I want to focus on what I think is most absurd, and this is the gaming fee thing. I am here with the bill itself, and the comments on the draft law state something about the revenue implications of the increase in the tax rate for betting and online casinos. There is an immediate effect of 410 million. kr., immediately. But after impact and backflow, it's 140 million. kr. This means that two thirds of the proceeds are lost in retreat and behavior. It's pretty massive dynamic effects of this bill that two thirds of the proceeds disappear. Can the Minister clarify what dynamic effects make the proceeds disappear by two thirds?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195600	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195601	That's one of the things we've been talking about. There are some who may find other places to play. It is estimated to be approx. 9% Others stop. That's a good thing, too. So there are different behaviours in the assessment underlying what is stated in the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195619	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195620	The comments here state that it is assumed that half of the decrease in this consumption is due to shifts to consumption by gaming providers authorised in other countries, i.e. the black market. In addition, there is some of what is also a consequence of lower dividend payments and corporation tax at Danske Spil. So this is very much this black market. How will the government help players who get into problems with gambling when they play on the black market, or is it just a pity for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195648	No, it is not, and that is why we have had quite good discussions with, for example, the Danish People's Party Morten Messerschmidt, who has very clear views on what to do with the gambling market. After all, he believes that the whole thing should be banned. The government believes that we should try to see if we can find a better and more balanced framework around it. This is one step in that direction, and in the agreement we have, we will look at what we can do to ensure a better balance in the Danish gambling market. We've already had meetings on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195720	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195725	Thank you. I've been trying to ask you earlier, and I'd like the tax minister to help us all here. How do you really help the gamblers with this play?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195740	Yes, you do that by raising the price of gambling is part of the changes you see that there will be fewer playing. Then you have to look at this together with the other initiatives that the government is planning to implement in this area, namely that we must have more action against gambling and that is also something that the parties to the agreement pointed out when we made the change and that is one of the things we are looking at in the second context in the Ministry of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195802	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195804	Yeah, but it doesn't say anything about that here. What you will then do in the future is fair enough. The definition is that a gambler cannot limit his game. That's the definition. A gambler can't limit his game. That is to say, even if you raise the price, he will continue to play. So I ask again: when you just raise the price, how will it help a gambler who can't limit his game, other than that he's going to spend even more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195831	Of course, there are various forms of gambling, and of course we are fully aware of that. There are some who, hopefully, by increasing taxes, will avoid getting into bigger problems than they are, and then there are some who need to be helped even more, and that is one of the things we are looking at in connection with the changes that we are discussing in the circle of agreements, and I hope that we can find a broad support for it. A stronger effort is needed to prevent gambling and a tighter framework is needed for the Danish gambling market. In many areas, I believe that it has run out of hand and that there is a need for a tighter framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195909	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195912	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to say to the tax minister that I would like to disclaim that the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament is trying to say that the Danish People's Party wants to ban all games. We don't want to. In fact, we think we have a good model today. So I myself will be presenting the Danish People's Party's policy in this area instead of the Minister making false messages. I would like to ask about the tax on wrapping films and household films. It is written in the bill that it has an expected high environmental impact. Then I would just like to ask the Minister to explain what the effect is. The officials, who advise the Minister, have said in the past that this had no effect. But does it have an effect? How many fewer lunches should there be, as there is no lunch wrapping paper around? What's the effect of this proposal? There's gotta be an effect since you write it in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124195957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200000	I am, of course, sorry that I was able to highlight a debate I had in this Chamber with Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, on how online gambling, betting and other things should develop in the future. It's okay that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has presented the views of the Danish People's Party here. Obviously, this also has a behavior effect. How many lunches and how many fewer lunches are wrapped in foil after this, of course, I am not in a position to respond to here on a stand-by basis, but there is no doubt that this initiative should contribute to reducing the amount of waste and thus also help create an incentive for companies to use smaller packaging. That's the whole idea behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200042	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200045	The minister says there is no doubt that this has an effect. So what's the effect? How much less household paper is being used out there? How much less movies about lunches will there be out there? If there is no doubt that there is an effect, then surely the Minister must also be able to explain what the effect is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200101	As I said, it is our clear view that this helps to reduce the amount of waste. These are the incentives that lie in the tax increase, and that is, of course, what is wanted, and that is also what is expected, not least for the sake that we want to have less waste in our nature and that we should also have less waste in our households.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200121	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200126	As a North Jyde, I'm gonna have to strike a small blow again, or actually a big blow, for SIFA TVBingo. It is 35 years old, it supports 212 associations that are approx. Sixty thousand members, and that is where all the volunteers come from. I understand that there may be some solutions coming up. Will there be a solution for SIFA TVBingo yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200154	As the questioner will know, that is one of the things we are looking at at at the moment, and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200159	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200201	If there isn't a solution, is that just too bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200211	As the questioner will know, there is the answer to the question in the Folketing, where it has been said that some of what we are looking at is whether you can adjust to the special restrictions that are for TV bingo. These are some of the exercises that are being done right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200221	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200224	I think that some more silver paper will be sold out there when the household film receives an extra tax and whether it is good for the environment, I doubt it. But I had to ask you something else. I have to ask about the extra 400 million. I should like to ask whether the Minister of Taxation can confirm that those who play and therefore have this tax levied are more likely to have lower incomes than some who have higher incomes, i.e. that the proposal turns down the heavy end, as they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200303	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200304	Without being able to calculate the distributions on the Danish gambling market, one might have the feeling that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is on his way in the right direction, but it might as well be that this initiative, and that is what is expected, will stop people before they take the dance card or the wallet out of their pocket and have to pay for the next betting ticket.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200325	You just have to remember to get back in. But here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200329	Now it is the case that most people who drink alcohol are not alcoholics, and most people who play are not gambling. They're just having fun with it, and why do they have to stop? Why do they have to stop what they're having fun with? I think they want to have a good time with their leisure interests, but they have to pay some more tax on it, some more tax, and there is the question: why is it really good that those who are not already among the richest in Denmark are going to pay some more tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200407	I mean, I think it's kind of a peculiar line of reasoning that because Mr. Ole Birk Olesen claims that the income groups here, i.e. those who play, don't have much money, so just don't do anything and just let them play. It is certainly a series of arguments which I cannot understand. A little like when we discuss increases in cigarette taxes, there is also a political intention and a political aim here, in that we want to limit the fact that too many people get into problems as a result of what we know comes from a very unregulated gambling market: gambling addiction and other associated diseases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200446	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200450	I would like to repeat my question from the speech, namely about the fact that there are others, at least in our respective parties, who have been sitting and discussing it here with recycled plastics, and how we are going to meet those companies who actually want to work with plastic recycling, and there are some problems there with taxes and so on. I know the government's been looking at that, so what's the status on it? Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200519	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200521	I think that, to be perfectly honest, we need to follow up on that. It is the case that if there are parties to agreements that have questions in a circle of agreements, here in a circle of financial agreements, then we will take them in the circle. So I think that's best.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200535	Is there another brief comment? No, there is not, and then there are no more brief remarks. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200558	The debate has been opened and we must first welcome the tax minister again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124200620	Thank you for that, President. May I not begin by congratulating the Conservative People's Party on the creative name, the phantom tax; that really is a name with schwung in it. Internally in the Treasury, I have been actually recommended to use the name taxation of current services, which I must admit does not sound quite as good as the creativity of the Conservative Parliamentary Group. Anyway, what the Conservative People's Party wants with this resolution is to change taxation in situations where, for example, there is a tax burden. in the case of a transfer of an undertaking, payments shall be made in the form of milestone payments or current services. The motion for a resolution is justified by the fact that entrepreneurs and business owners are taxed under the applicable rules on money that they potentially never receive. According to the proposers, it can result in the loss of Danish jobs when investors want to buy and develop Danish companies in growth. The proposal therefore seeks to require the government to draw up a revenue-neutral scheme for business owners, whereby business owners have to pay tax on profits only at the time when they receive the milestone payment, so that they cannot risk being taxed by funds that they have not received and are potentially never receiving. Of course, there may be situations where it is advantageous for the parties to enter into an agreement that payment should be made on a regular basis. It can, for example, be done. if the buyer does not have the full purchase price now and here, if there is disagreement between the parties on the valuation of the entity or if there is only a general uncertainty about the valuation. It can, for example, be done. agreed that the seller as part of the sales price receives 10%. of the company's profits for the first 7 years after the sale. Under current rules, the seller is taxed upfront, if you like, of an estimated present value of future milestone payments, regardless of the uncertainty as to how and whether milestone payments will actually be paid. The seller is thus deemed to have acquired the right to the full amount of the sale at the time of the contract. The present value shall be determined by the parties, inter alia: taking into account the uncertainty about payments. The seller, on the other hand, is not taxed on an ongoing basis by the individual benefits until they exceed the established value. The seller obtains a deduction if the full amount is not paid. In other words, the seller ends up being taxed only by the services which the seller actually receives. It almost goes without saying that a relaxation of the tax rules, even if it is called the abolition of a phantom tax, will mean a reduction in revenue. The proposal will lead to a postponement of taxation and hence a loss of interest on the part of the public sector, and the proposal is therefore not neutral in terms of revenue. The proposal would also run counter to the general taxation principles where taxation occurs when a right to an income has been acquired. As the authors of the motion for a resolution themselves state, in those situations the right to something cannot be acquired, and even the valuation of it takes account of the fact that the payment has been postponed. I personally am of the opinion that our tax system should be as simple and transparent as possible, and it should not be the tax rules that can end up standing in the way of the development of Danish companies. However, I believe that the current rules on the taxation of so-called current services represent a sensible compromise, if you like, where there is an upfront tax, but where there is a guarantee that you will not end up being taxed by money that you will never get, and to that end the resolution, as it stands, will result in a lower revenue for the public sector, since any postponement of taxation means, as I have said, a loss of interest for the public sector. That is why the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201058	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. A brief remark was made on the slippery slope. It's from Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201104	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I am thinking of being creative, just as when the Minister calls bank taxes social contributions. At least we don't have anything to let each other hear, I think. But we just have to keep doing that, because that means that people can understand what we are saying. Just about the social contribution, I have to say that I did not think it was so good. In relation to this proposal for a Phantom Tax, I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that this is only about a company that you own personally. That is where the problem arises. One can suddenly see that there is a difference between whether it is personally owned or whether it is a different form of company.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201141	That does not, of course, make the point that we think, as I said, that a quite good and natural compromise has been found here. I also believe that what is perhaps at the heart of this resolution is that it is time to move on to quite key principles that are essential to our tax system. That is also an important point in the government's rejection of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201203	Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201205	But if the parties agree on how trade is to take place and that there is agreement on how and how, what is the problem then, and do we not reasonably agree that the minimum loss of revenue that will then be is extremely, very limited, or how does the Minister view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201225	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201227	It is difficult, of course, to give a direct estimate of how much the loss of revenue will be, but I think the most important thing is, in addition to the government's view, that this is a quite reasonable compromise in the way of taxation, the fundamental considerations underlying this, which I think should be taken very seriously in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201249	Then there was a request for a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201253	It is up to the issue of the loss of revenue: I would like if the Minister of Taxation could ask his ministry to give a written answer on what the loss of revenue will be, because with the current level of interest rates I am not sure that there will be a loss of revenue. But we need to get a more detailed calculation of that. So I would like the Minister to confirm that he will have it examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201315	Yeah, we can easily describe it, no problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201320	There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur we have is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201333	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Conservative People's Party and I would like to thank it for what it wants to impose on the government to abolish the taxation of current benefits, which the motion for a resolution calls the Phantom Tax. Proposers justify this by the fact that entrepreneurs and business owners are taxed on money that they potentially never receive if they agree on milestone payments in connection with the sale of all or part of the business. The aim is to impose on the government a revenue-neutral scheme whereby business owners will only pay tax on profits when they receive the milestone payment. The postponement of taxation, as proposed by Conservatives, would, however, run counter to the general principles of tax law as to when taxation will take place. A postponement of taxation in relation to the principle of legal acquisition could therefore put pressure on a transition to taxation on the basis of a cash-pool principle in other situations. A change in the law, which means that the time of taxation is postponed, will result in a loss of interest for the public sector, and thus it will not be neutral to postpone taxation until the time when the payment is made. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201453	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. A brief comment came at the last minute, so the rapporteur must stay here. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201500	Thank you. I would like to help the Social Democratic Party in this case, because if you now made a scheme where you shot this five years, and then there was an interest rate trend over the five years that made the state have a revenue, then you could add it to the tax that lies after five years. Then you would have solved this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201522	I do not think it is possible on this basis to calculate a loss of revenue in relation to the proposal here. That is why the Social Democratic Party is opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201534	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201536	Excuse me, sir, but your minister just said he'd count on the proceeds. So I simply do not understand anything when you say that you cannot calculate on the proceeds. That's not what I asked either. I asked whether the Social Democrats would help to look at a solution where, if you push it, for example. 5 years, looking at what the revenue loss has been for the state on this person via the interest rate level that has been these 5 years. Then tax can be added. Then you can choose it as a citizen if you think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201600	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201601	For the Social Democratic Party, the essence of this proposal is that a postponement of taxation will mean that it is the state that bears the risk of uncertainty, and hence not the parties themselves. That is why we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201618	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201627	Thank you very much for the floor. Thanks to the Conservatives for focusing on a relevant issue, because there is no doubt that entrepreneurs and businesses, especially during the start-up phase, have challenges in terms of liquidity when they have to pay this tax. They also face challenges if they lose, for example. an earnout later and possibly has paid a tax which is much higher than what they actually got out of it. So we can easily understand the problem, and we would really like to clarify it more, even though there has been a little creative naming, because fortunately we do not tax ghosts in Denmark, but it may feel that way. I fully acknowledge that. We are also hearing from a great many entrepreneurs who are experiencing major tax problems in startups. These are issues which we believe should be clarified. There is no doubt that Danish entrepreneurs contribute a great deal to Danish society with growth and prosperity and create jobs in Denmark. We very much appreciate this in the Left, which is why we in the Left have always worked for good conditions for entrepreneurs, among others. with entrepreneurial deductions, share savings accounts and better opportunities to invest in unlisted shares. We have worked together for this when we have been in government. So we really want to help entrepreneurs. We want to make sure that we have the opportunities to drive the best growth and prosperity in Denmark, and we want to ensure that some new companies start up. That is why we would like to call for thorough work on the committee, in which we can have a number of questions put to the Minister on this issue. We could even consider whether there might be another hearing or whether we could set up a working group. In fact, in the Committee on Taxation, during the last parliamentary term, we have had great success in working groups which have looked at issues such as the environment and the environment. black work and shared economy. This is a way in which we can be involved in more elaborate committee work and look at some issues. I think that this about entrepreneurship and how we create good conditions for it in Denmark is a relevant issue that we could easily address for that purpose. When I say that we are in complete agreement with the diagnosis and that we would like to look at how we can solve it, we may not agree entirely with the cure. And that is simply because the principle of legal acquisition is one of the guiding principles of Danish tax law and we simply cannot understand the consequences of ending it. However, we fully agree that we need to do something to ensure a better entrepreneurship, and that is why we want to call for a thorough committee work and perhaps even a report on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201851	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124201858	Thank you. Just when I read this proposal and saw that it was about the abolition of a phantom tax, I couldn't but think: No, damn it, we don't have that in Denmark, hopefully. But luckily there's no such thing as a phantom tax... I was just about to get scared that there was also a fantasy tax or something else. But fortunately there isn't, so it's kind of a positive surprise compared to when you start reading this. Anyway, as I have already said, it is more specific that when companies are sold, there is often a landmark tax, that is, the price depends on what future earnings in the company can be. I can say that I have also sold a company myself at a time when part of the trade was crucial to the company's future performance. So I think it's something that's very normal out there when you're dealing with a business. Today, as has also been mentioned, the landmark tax is done by being taxed on the sale of the company, i.e. when you get the right to such a kind of prepaid tax. So I actually understand why the proposer thinks that this might cause some problems. To take a simple example: If you sell a company for DKK 100. And there's a landmark tax for 200 kroner, yes, you've got 100 kroner. in the hand, but one is taxed by the 300 kroner. Now. And there I think many people could well imagine, when it is also about personally owned companies, that it doesn't help very much that you have the right to future profits if you are declared bankrupt when you sell. And that is the problem you are facing, so it is not just a question of postponing taxation and of some principles, because if you stand and suddenly have a personal bankruptcy, there is not much about it, and then the trade really falls apart and does not turn into anything. So this is a big deal for business deals, and we think that, like the Conservatives, is a problem that we need to look at. Here is the proposal. And I think it is a good thing that the landmark tax should happen when you actually get the income, that is, when you actually have the money in your hand, so that you do not end up going into personal bankruptcy, and so that you do not end up with an estimate, when you sit and have to think about what you might be able to pay or what future earnings can be, and whether what the contract says is realistic. I actually think that the Jutes feel a lot that we would rather have the money in our hands before we actually pay any of it. And we don't want to pay taxes either. I think that's how many Jutes do it. In fact, I think what is described here in the motion for a resolution sounds more logical, and I noticed that the Minister also said that it should be simple and logical. But there I just have to agree with the Conservatives that it is more simple and logical for you to be taxed when you have the money in your hand, rather than on some estimate of what it might be in the future. Then I would also like to make a brief comment on the funding, where we must assume that this is about small change. But it is actually a bit strange to think that the state has now borrowed what, 250 billion. kr. This year alone, when no one is pointing to the financing of interest rates or anything. And here we are in the small ears compared to that, and that is rejected because there is no funding behind it. I mean, I haven't seen anyone talking about when these 250 billion. kr. We have to pay back, or what the funding behind them should be. So I think it's a little too bad if that's what the main argument for it is. But I think it is fine if we could look further at it in committee, but from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, I think this seems more like common sense, which makes sense to those who stand and have to sell a company out there, instead of being taxed by some future earnings that you might get. So we in the Danish People's Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202227	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments, and then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals. Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202235	Thank you so much. We are also grateful for the motion for a resolution. After all, this is an excellent proposal that Conservatives' rapporteur has made here, and we support 100% of the intention to support Danish entrepreneurship. We also know that this has been a wish for a very long time, especially from the life science industry, as also mentioned. However, I cannot put radical mandates in this proposal for the same reasons as the other rapporteurs have stated, namely that it is contrary to some fundamental principles of tax law and it is not revenue-neutral. On the other hand, I think that the rapporteur of the Left has an excellent point in that this is a really, very good topic for us in the Committee on Taxation to dive into. This is a really good opportunity to get smarter together. Now the rapporteur from Conservatives and I share the view that both of us are quite new in this context, so I would really like to find out how we can work with entrepreneurship in fiscal policy. So let's finally get the geek through this, and then we'll see how far we can get together. But for the moment, we can't back this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202351	I am a little curious, because if it turns out that it can be done here on a system where it becomes revenue-neutral, could Radicals also support it? Then there's this thing about the timing of taxation. There are, after all, a number of conditions in which a deficit is shifted to other years of shifting taxation when making investments. So it is in a large number of areas that we are moving taxation in relation to the year in which the action was taken. So where do you think this is such a break in relation to a large number of other areas where we actually do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202428	I mean, this proposal specifically goes in and tampers with the principle of legal recovery in tax legislation. So we are simply nervous about opening up the kind of precedent one could imagine. What, then, could not then be opened up to by proposals? It is quite true that there are some industries that are plagued by this, among other things. Entrepreneurship. But if we could really get to them and work on tax policy on other fronts, so that we can help them get started in a different way than exactly in this area, we would be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202458	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202501	In other words, what will be opened up afterwards, I hope we agree that the Folketing will decide. So there you can just stop saying that you will not open that up in other areas and then it will not happen. So you can easily put fence stakes around it if you think it can make sense here, but not in other areas. That's how the principles work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202518	Yes, and that is why new citizens are new citizens, and radicals are radicals; we share our views. So right here, we actually think it makes great sense to put up a stopbar. Moreover, we are not very excited about the fact that there really is less revenue in it when you look for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202536	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202546	Thank you. We believe in the SF that a relevant problem is being raised here and we would like to take a closer look at the legislation. Basically, only a small part of the companies will be affected by the current so-called phantom tax. This does not mean, however, that they must continue to do so, and it does not seem fair if, as private owners of a company, you have to sell your business at less than the real price because you cannot afford to tax a future expected gain, not least because it can give less favourable conditions to entrepreneurs in Denmark. I think it sounds a little bit to the proposers as if it were revenue-neutral, and the government then says something else. I think that a possible problem of interest losses could be solved by charging interest on deferred taxes. But we can look at that. In the SF we are certainly looking forward to the further work of the committee, in which I think that we may be able to discuss the possibility of a revenue-neutral alternative to the current way of doing so, if possible. We propose that an analysis be made in committee of the proposal for possible solutions, so that there is a real basis for decision-making. As a minimum, a change will require appropriate safeguards, so that, for example, this does not result in an excessive delay in tax payments. There may be good sense in this proposal, but we must also ensure that a change in the rules is not abused. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202711	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202722	Then came the day when I shall stand on the floor of the Parliament and agree with something that the SF's rapporteur says about tax policy. I think it's time for us to shut down soon, because what can't be the end of it? Because it is quite right, as the SF's rapporteur says, that it may well be possible to make this revenue neutral, and I also think that when we look at the figures, it is not very much. However, I do believe that there are solutions to this, and I would like to thank the Conservatives for putting forward this proposal which we in the New Citizens' Party warmly support. We are not afraid that this will be a slippery path to a lawless and lawless society, as we hear from somebody here. I think we have a strong enough government to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202809	Thank you. We think it is a very good resolution and we will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202815	That was short, but thanks for that. Then it is the rapporteur of the proposers, Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124202835	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to all the rapporteurs who have endured this evening for their constructive contribution. In particular, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, which has already chosen to back this evening. To the rest of you: Thank you very much for seeing a perspective too... most of you at least... and that we can try to see if we can dive further into it. For try to hear here: Denmark is a really nice country. We are good at looking after each other, and we have knitted it together so that we have a common box that we can pull on if needed. The more people can throw something in the box, the more there's for those who can't. Far down the road it is good, even if we can politically disagree on how much we can and should throw in that box and how much we should keep in each of our own pockets. Nor do I believe that we can disagree that cheating and fraud are not acceptable. Tax havens, black work and scam and scam we just don't want to. It drains the common fund, and it must, of course, be combated. Similarly, we also have a common interest in companies being able to develop, entrepreneurs being able to flourish, jobs being created, and every time that happens, we are making the social cake bigger and the slices getting thicker and thicker, and that is why we are getting better care for the elderly, training and green transition. That is why it is also crucial that we ensure good conditions for our entrepreneurs and businesses. We usually agree on pools and support and talk. Today we must agree on something more fundamental, more structural and more long-term. We must agree to abolish this so-called phantom tax, and although it is not the Conservative People's Party that has come up with that word, I have grasped it right away, because I think it is a good word and that it says quite precisely what it is about. Because it's about tax on milestone payments that you don't even know if you're gonna get. It is crazy, it is grotesque that we in Denmark have such rules. It is detrimental to the purchase and sale of companies in particular biotech, where the chance to score the box is minimal. On the other hand, we are deeply dependent on hope. Let me check how much time I really have left (The fg. President There are 71⁄2 minutes left). That's good, thank you, because I really have a lot to say. Because we're so good at medicine, biotech, life science. It is one of our absolute greatest export successes, which has also financed a great deal of Danish welfare during the corona crisis. It is an industry that you may wonder about not having more startups, so until you start diving into it and find out that the phantom tax is actually a huge challenge • an obstacle. Since research and development in the field of biotechnology is linked to a modest success rate, it often happens that the objectives set are not achieved, and therefore milestone payments from the buyer lapse, but the tax does not. Of course, one can organize and design oneself out of it, but is this really how we want to knit our taxes together, so that companies and investors have to think in creative solutions, which are probably legal but, of course, keep foreign capital far away? As an investor, of course, you become sceptical and find other and more straightforward investments. It's self-evident. Why bother with the Danish strange tax system? Imagine if, when I got my first salary, I also had to pay taxes on the salary I would get later. Then I would have had to say nicely no, thank you. That's exactly what the salesmen have to do. They can't afford to sell. They can't afford to raise new capital. It's completely on the moon. The rules, as they are today, will inevitably mean something for the sale of privately owned companies that include a continuous service, which is quite common when we talk about the sale of smaller companies as well. That would mean at least four things. This would mean that, in some cases, the salesman is taxed on money that he has not yet received and may never get in his hand; (2) therefore, in some cases, the tax on the sale risks being higher than the amount he receives as a seller in his hands; and (3) that the value of the deduction that he can subsequently obtain, if it turns out that he has paid too much in tax, will in most cases be less than the tax he has paid; and (4) that in any event, the interest on the overpaid tax in the period from the sale will be lost until the final purchase sum can be calculated. That treasure is simply devastating, and it has to go away. Quite frankly, I do not understand if the parties do not finally, finally, finally, finally, when we get through hearings and one and the other, do not support this particular proposal. Because then it will only be about talking about entrepreneurship and growth. Then that's the only place we think it should all be pingpong-dynamo. But when action is taken, we have to remember that it does not just have to be talk. I very much hope that all of you will consider that it should be the case that the buyer and seller have the opportunity to agree that taxation must take place in a different way from today. It is fine that it is on the cashier principle, as also mentioned in the technical review that has been in the Tax Committee. And yes, it must be something that the buyer and seller agree on, and the tax accruals for the buyer and seller must be followed by time. There's nothing weird about it. If tax is chosen on the basis of the cash principle, this means, in its simplicity, that during the transfer year the seller is taxed only on the amount that he receives that year, and the buyer can only include that amount purely fiscally. Similarly, current benefits are the same in subsequent years. There is full symmetry, but without the seller, for example. is forced to go out and borrow at a tax that he might never have paid. Yes, I recognize that it might well be that it cost the Treasury a tiny bit more than today. Let's have it checked, let's find out if we can make it revenue neutral. Well, that's what I've been thinking. But it is simply because the rules today are unfair. The state actually scores a tax in advance of some money that has not yet changed hands and that may never do so. If the majority of the Folketing is willing to sacrifice anything to improve the conditions for entrepreneurs, then it is obvious to start here where it is about stopping charging some money that it is basically unreasonable to charge. It's time we had a fight with the phantom tax. I know that this has been discussed before, and we have therefore fought against the unjust and growth-killing phantom-top tax in the Conservatives. Of course, you only have to be taxed once you have received the money from the sale. It is high time we made it easier to run and sell our business in Denmark. The Phantom tax is just one among many exciting more or less foolish rules that we have to go, and I hope this one will be gone shortly, and otherwise we will have to continue. I think it is constructive to have a hearing, with questions, with committee work. I'd really like to get started on that. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124203532	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mona Juul. I just have to point out for another time that the time clock is right up there so you can keep an eye on it there. And it counts up here, so there are really good opportunities for it. But I know it's a little bit stressful. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mona Juul I panicked a bit when I only had 5 minutes, because then I thought I just had to remove a paragraph; thank you for that). The rapporteur did well. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201124203608	Then there is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 25 November 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
