ParlaMint-DK_20201217100154	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter penalties for drivers of madness who kill (citizens' motion)). Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) and Marcus Knuth (KF): Request no. F 31 (What can the Minister say about the Minister's activities in connection with the involvement of the defence in the so-called operation mink killing and about the reasons for defence participation in the operation outside the infected zones?). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Request no. F 32 (Continued adoption of Bill No. L 17 on the amendment of the Social Services Act on the preparation of the transition to adulthood for young people with a physical or mental disability, the questioners would like to know what plans the government has to avoid that the transition to adulthood in Section 5 of the Services Act does not really end up with cuts in help and support for the individual when the need for personal help, companionship, etc. can often be roughly the same? ) and Query No. F 33 (Does the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Health and the Elderly and the Minister for Employment consider that the current rules and the current search practices in municipalities and regions in the field of AT provide sufficient guarantees for citizens with a physical disability an active life and leisure life, adequate educational opportunities and links with the labour market, and what will the government do in concrete terms to ensure this forward-looking?). Christian Juhl (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (SF) and others.: Question No. F 34 (Will the Minister take the initiative for Denmark to ratify the UN Treaty of 7 July 2017, which prohibits all nuclear weapons, and thus undertake not to develop, test, manufacture or otherwise acquire or store nuclear weapons?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100259	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Before I start the vote, I have to make sure you have the right name on the display. I assume that is the case. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 35 af Sjúrður Skaale (JF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Rasmus Stoklund (S), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Christian Juhl (EL) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 35 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100412	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100434	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100450	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100513	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100533	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100558	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100644	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100701	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 10 (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 32 (V and DF). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100728	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100748	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100812	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100833	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA and 1 EL), against voting 7 (EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100857	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100908	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100930	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217100947	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101010	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101024	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101048	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101154	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we write Danish legal history. In future, sexual intercourse will be something that requires the consent of both parties or more for that matter. Everyone's gotta be in on it. I know it sounds like one of the most natural, the greatest of course, but that's not how the law is screwed up today until we press the green buttons in a moment. It has challenged the legal certainty of rape victims, and it is high time we got this right. We have long fought for this in the Radical Left, also with other parties, and we are pleased that we are now finally succeeding. But we couldn't have done this without help. We owe a great deal of thanks to the many victims who have made themselves known and told their stories in recent years. This one goes out to you. You have already been subjected to a traumatizing attack, and despite the pain it may be to tell about an intimate experience with all that it involves... everything you are faced with of skepticism, doubt, uncertainty, prejudices... you have had the courage and strength to stand forward and tell your stories in public in front of the entire Danish population. You can really only bow to that in the dust of admiration. Your reports have been indispensable to create the political pressure that enables us to carry through the law and that we stand here today. Thank you so much! Your story hasn't been in vain. You've helped bring about change. Your history now creates Danish legal history. The least we can do from a political point of view is to do all we can to ensure that both society and the judicial system take you seriously with law and action. I think that in ten years' time we will look back on the previous legislation that we are looking back at today and thinking: why did we not do this sooner? In politics, we sometimes change a word in the law. Sometimes we move a comma, add a new sentence or a new paragraph. Today we go further than that. Today we are making real sense of politics, today we are writing legal history, today we are finally getting a consent law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101450	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101509	Thank you. Today it is finally happening: now we have a new rape legislation based on consent. SF and our legal rapporteur, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, have been fighting for at least 10 years for the terms of rape victims and have made various proposals in this regard. And unfortunately, I have to give this speech for Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, as she's on her way to being tested for corona after she's been notified in the infection stop app, and she's sorry she can't be on this very historic day. For after 90 years of criminal law that does not live up to a modern view of sex and gender, we will correct it. Because it is a law that does not catch the reality that many victims do not get to say no precisely because they freeze in the situation during the rape, because they cannot, because they do not dare, or because they are caught off guard, despite being one of the most common reactions. Many victims simply cannot provide the resistance that the current legislation expects in cases of rape. Let us now make it clear: sex without consent is rape, also in relationships, and that is also when the victim freezes only yes It is a huge victory for the victims. I am sure that it will hold hands under the worst acquittals that we see today. We know from Sweden that this leads to more sentences. Thank you to the women's organisations who have stood firm for change despite often sloppy and harsh words from opponents of change. This is your victory. Thanks to the victims and other individuals for standing forward in the front line, to Kirstine, Eva and many more. Your strong words have moved the debate. I know that it has not been without great personal costs, because it is debates that cause many anger. But this had not come so far without your help, and I hope that the battles that you have taken will become protective hands around future victims, for your fight was not in vain. Thank you to the parties that have made this possible. And thank you for the fact that a virtually unified Parliament can stand together today for something as important as a new law. Now we finally have a new piece of legislation, but that is not all. What we did not know at first reading was that it would actually be possible to make a police settlement that provided the special police units to lift this area. Because the law will not work if we do not also throw our strength into better investigation and better encounter with the victims. We in the SF have fought particularly hard for the special units for rape, partner violence, stalking and honour-related crimes since we launched the idea exactly 1 year ago. I am also proud that during the coming multi-year period, we are sending 125 officers on a completely new training to deal with the victims in a better way than today. It must ensure quality of treatment and, above all, ensure that the victims feel better, so that hopefully we do away with the fact that every other rape victim feels badly treated by the police. Today is a party day for all Denmark's women and men when the consent law is, hopefully, passed. And it must be celebrated. But tomorrow we will pull back on the work clothes and fight for others. free psychological assistance for the victims. We know that many victims of rape are young students who cannot afford to pay for their own money. But first I will enjoy the sight when the Folketing hopefully goes into almost green in a moment and secures a fantastic Christmas present for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101841	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217101848	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will not take too much of your time. I would just like to say that it is amazing that there are so many of us who are behind this proposal. When we made this proposal in Enhedslisten for the first time, we were so ridiculed with all sorts of strange stories about NemID and contracts, and I don't know what. Now we are here where so many parties in the Folketing support a consent law, and I am simply extremely pleased about that, and I am also touched by it. I just want to say thank you once again to all those people who have stood up so bravely and told their stories. Without them, we would never have come here where we are today. And then I just want to say to you, dear colleagues, thank you for the fight, now we have the right to our own body again. When the women got the vote, they wore white clothes. Now the women have the right to their own body, which is why I put on a white shirt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102000	Thanks to Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102008	Thank you, President. We Conservatives just want to say quite briefly that we are pleased that there is such broad support for this legislation. This is legislation that is about looking after each other and looking after the Danes. It is a job which, among other things, is a job. Our own President helped to get started when we had the ministerial post in the area of justice. That is why it is a pity that when the agreement was then negotiated, block policy suddenly entered into it, and then it became an agreement that separated the blue parties. When it comes to something that is so important to the Danes, we think it is a little too bad that block policy went into it in the negotiations. The most important thing now is that there is a broad consensus on voting through this law, and that is why, of course, we are also voting in favour, but another time, when it is a subject that is so sensitive, we think we could have invited all parties to the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102059	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next person to ask for the floor is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102110	On behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to thank our legal rapporteur, Jeppe Bruus, who cannot be here today, and to thank all the rapporteurs who have made such a difference for something that affects so many women around us. A lot of us are really affected, because we are historically on the shoulders of women who have looked forward in the world to experience the day when Denmark stands today, where sex must be with consent and where, overall, we make a difference to the women who come after. Thank you very much to all of you who have fought for it historically, to the rapporteurs today and to the Minister who has kept listening on a day that makes such a difference. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102208	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. I would like to point out that I found during this debate that there were rapporteurs who needed to talk, and they did so in the sidelines, and that is exactly what it should be. Because we need to talk down here, and you have to do that the right way, so I would like to thank you for doing that. As no one else has wished to speak, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102229	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102259	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102330	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 17 (DF, KF, NB, LA and 1 (S) (by mistake)), against 80 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and 2 (DF) (by mistake)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102409	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V, KF and LA), against 65 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102435	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102448	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102501	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102516	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102530	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I understand that it does, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102550	Thank you. I have simply asked for the floor to propose that we interrupt the second reading and take this bill back to committee, and this is because we believe that there has been an uncertainty about an agreement entered into by the government with KL. So we propose that we interrupt the second reading and take the proposal back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102611	Thank you. There are no brief comments. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when one wishes to interrupt the debate, one representative of each of the groups can speak for or against the interruption and the speaking time is one minute. Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102630	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, the Left has indicated that we will explain our position in relation to the Enhedslisten's amendments at second reading today. We in the Left are very much in agreement with Enhedslisten in...
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102648	Excuse me, but I have to say that what you are debating now is whether you agree with the interruption or not. For the second reading will then continue at a later stage, so it is a question of whether or not we agree with the interruption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102701	Then I stand as a newly elected man looking over at the group and saying, "No, we're not."
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102704	You don't agree with the interruption? Okay, well, that's taken note. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102720	Thank you. The trouble in the Chamber is, of course, due to the fact that this indicates that there is a majority in favour of the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten to this proposal. We think it's incredibly important... I have 1 minute, don't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102739	Yes, but we are not debating the proposal itself here. We are debating whether we agree with the interruption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102743	Then I will just round it off in this way: I note that a majority has indicated that we want to support our proposal. We have no objection to further clarification of the matter. If the Social Democrats and the government want time for that, then I hope to endorse the proposal, then it is certainly not something where we will force a vote forward. So we have no objection to taking it back in committee. It is only important for us that we should end up with the children of free school being treated as primary school pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102814	It was a yes to interruption, as I understood it. Thank you. Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102823	Thank you. From the Conservative side, I can say that we support and support the fact that we are sending it back to the committee for a detailed discussion of some of the uncertainties that have arisen in the legislative proposal, both about the economy and also about the involvement and consultation of free schools and private schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102842	Thank you. Now I am in a situation where at least one party has spoken against an interruption and some have not spoken. That is why I think the only right thing to do is to take a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217102856	That is why you vote green if you are in favour of an interruption and you vote red if you are against an interruption. I repeat that we are voting against an interruption, and if you are in favour of interrupting this draft law, L 16, then you are voting green, and if you are against, you are voting red. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. This means that we are interrupting the legal procedure of L 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217103009	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217103020	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3, of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB, LA and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 13 (DF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 83 (S, V, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB, LA and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 13 (DF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 83 (S, V, RV, SF, EL and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It is the case that we must now suspend the sitting for a moment so that we can have the Chamber cleaned up and therefore the sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 10:45.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217104543	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Friday 18 December 2020. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners. Is that sir? Mads Birded, or is it mr. Marcus Knuth, who justifies the request? Marcus Knuth, I can do that when Mr. Mads Birded are not here). Good. We will have the reasons for this. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217104644	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'd also like to say to the Prime Minister. I think there was a little confusion in that. I've just seen Mads Birded outside, and I think there's still the perception that we're in the middle of the break. Clearly, we are not. We have called this debate because, of course, during the election campaign we heard from the Social Democratic Party that a reception centre outside Europe would be created for asylum seekers. This is something that has been turned many times in bourgeois governments too. We have tried ourselves, but we have not succeeded in doing so. So when the Social Democracy went to the polls on this idea, we thought, "That's fantastic." The Prime Minister himself has been on the subject since then, but in the real world nothing has really happened, at least nothing that we are familiar with. That is why we have been very much looking forward to the debate here today, so that we can hear the Prime Minister about how things are going with the creation of an exit centre outside Europe. We are all aware of the challenges facing asylum seekers in Denmark, so we wholeheartedly support the idea of creating a reception centre outside Europe. From our point of view, however, from the point of view of the opposition, which does not sit in the closed meetings, we are certainly not aware that much has happened, and we are concerned about that. So we look forward to a good debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217104804	Thank you. Then we come to the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217104814	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for having called a debate again on a reception centre. This is an important issue and, as has just been said, the challenges are to be seen. Even in a year of Corona, which has put a great deal of pressure on Europe's borders, there is still a lot of pressure. This is a problem for Europe, and it is also a problem for those who risk their lives on the road. This year alone, some 900 people are estimated to have drowned or disappeared in the Mediterranean. It's deeply tragic. And even for those who survive, the tough journey is often quite hopeless, for there are many migrants who do not have a legal errand in Europe, and there are many who, in addition, are denied their asylum applications. We have a European asylum system that has actually collapsed. That is why we need a new one, in which, in short, it is we Europeans who decide the development, and not the traffickers of human beings, that is to say, a new asylum system, which must be more humane and fairer. We must help people where they are, lift our international responsibilities, but keep immigration under control for Europe. In the government, we maintain that asylum treatment outside Europe must be a key element in a new solution. We think this is the best way to break the incentives. In September, the government appointed a migration ambassador for the first time. We have allocated more resources to work. We are in close dialogue with the like-minded about the problems of the current system, which has collapsed, and also about the need for new solutions, and we ourselves, in the midst of the corona, have continued our dialogue with relevant countries. There is now agreement in more and more countries, both within the EU and outside the EU, that the current system is not working and that problems need to be resolved more closely in the neighbourhoods. In other words, more and more people share our analysis. Governments inside and outside Europe are now talking about visions that are similar to the discussion we have in Denmark, and in my own talks with colleagues I sense that there is increasing support for thinking new in this area too. In September, the Commission presented a proposal for a new asylum and migration pact for Europe. We think there are proposals in the pact that are moving in the right direction. There is a greater focus on repatriations now, there is a greater focus on cooperation with countries of origin and transit, and there is also, fortunately, a stronger focus on strengthening external borders. However, in our opinion, the Commission is not proceeding drastically enough when it comes to solving the basic problems. The new pact, for example, contains: not proposals to move asylum treatment to third countries. We did not expect that to happen either, but it is of course a pity that the Commission's proposal is not more innovative. We continue to press for longer-term solutions, and we will continue and vigorously pursue the objective of transferring asylum seekers to asylum treatment outside Europe. We will do that with others who see things the same way we do. There are many who say that this is not realistic and that it cannot be done. And I recognize, as I have done in other debates, that it is difficult. On the other hand, I do not recognise that this is an impossible task, and the alternative is to allow a dysfunctional asylum system to continue. The assessment is that it is possible to do this within our international commitments. We are therefore in the process of laying the foundations for a new system. This foundation is presented in a bill we are presenting in the new year. It must ensure that we can, I know, that many in this Parliament share our basic analysis that the asylum system has collapsed, that it does not work. I also know that there is broad support for us to move forward with ideas that are at least similar to those of the government. That is why I would like to call in the usual way for cooperation in this area. I also recognise impatience, and I really think it was very fair on the part of the rapporteur to say that previous governments have also tried to do this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105246	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now it is the case that a question of one minute is available for each of the general rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105253	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister. It is, of course, quite reasonable here too that the Prime Minister should refer to the increased work pressure to combat corona as a time-consuming factor. However, when we choose to tackle this, it is because the Prime Minister, in his opening speech to the Danish Parliament himself, mentioned this desire for an exit centre at a time when the Corona situation was known, and so we must also consider that the Prime Minister is still working very hard to achieve this. What the Prime Minister does a great deal of in his answer here is to say that it must be done in coordination with other EU countries, and that may of course be fine, one can stand strong together, but it may also be a way of blocking what the Prime Minister has promised the Danes. Because if you cannot find an ally in the EU, what should Denmark do? I have to remind you of the immigration issue that was published here on 5 February 2018, which is called Justice and Realism, where it is very clear that it should be done with other EU countries, but where, of course, it does not mean that if they do not want to, it must stand in the way of us doing so. Then the Prime Minister can open a bit of the good bag here up to Christmas for how far we are both in relation to EU countries, but also by going solo?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105405	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105406	It is quite true that there is a way to go that we are waiting for the European Union to come here at some point, and I think that will happen at some point, because the situation is unsustainable. The fact that Europe itself does not decide who comes to our continent is untenable, that is wrong. We must be masters of our own house, we must decide for ourselves who comes to Europe, and in my view too many have come from outside. That is why we have so serious integration problems. That is why we have said from the outset that we will not wait for the whole of the European Union to reach the conclusion that is right in our view. That is why we have dialogue not only with some other EU countries, we also have dialogue with European countries that are outside the European Union, and it is absolutely a likely scenario that we will be doing something, if possible, with other countries without waiting for the whole of the European Union. And yes, many things are delayed because of the corona. One of the things that has been delayed in this work is that travel activity with other countries is quite, quite difficult, and much of the dialogue we need in this area requires that you physically be with colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105518	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105520	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister. As I have said, we share the view of a reception centre outside Europe, but the reason why we have not campaigned for it ourselves is that, yes, it is a wish, but it is a wish that has not been realistic in the short term. And that is where we have suffered from a challenge with the social democracy's approach to it. We feel that we are trying to sell to the Danes a hope that is not within reach on the short track. I hope, of course, that we are wrong and that the Prime Minister can do something that we could not when we had government power. So can't the Minister just get a little closer to that? Is this something that the Prime Minister thinks is realistic within two years, three years, five years, so where are we just like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105603	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105604	I do not think that at any time we have pretended to the Danes that this would be easy. We've been saying from the start that this is hard. After all, this is a completely new way of thinking about asylum treatment, which we believe is necessary because the current asylum system has collapsed. We remember it from 2015. It is totally untenable for so many people to arrive in Europe at once, and we are still struggling with the consequences back from 2015, including a number of rejected asylum seekers that we find difficult to get to travel back. So we haven't pretended to the Danes that this is easy. That does not change the fact that in our eyes it is the right way to go. That is our political vision. I dare not put on a number of months or years, but I can say that we are in full swing with the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105649	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105651	Thank you. In February 2018, the Prime Minister promised the Danes that whether other countries, not just EU countries, but other countries, would join, the Prime Minister was ready to take the lead on the Danish side. And allow me to quote from DR: The posture is to bring more countries, but I am ready to take the lead on the Danish side. We must do this because we can create a more humane refugee system that is better for our own society than what we have today, says Mette Frederiksen. ▪ So the question from me to the Prime Minister today is: Does the Prime Minister still intend to take the lead on the Danish side, since it now seems that we can neither bring any other countries nor the European Union, nor is what was said in 2018, really no longer relevant now that we have gained power?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105741	It is as relevant today as it was in 2018. There is nothing in our policy, and there is nothing in our positions that is changed by the fact that we have government responsibilities, other than that we have a great deal of what we voted for, and of course we hope that this will happen here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105755	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105758	Thank you. I am sorry that I was late and did not hear the first speech by the Prime Minister, so it may be that the Prime Minister has mentioned it. I would just like to ask, just in case, whether the Prime Minister recognises that the United Nations quota refugee system is also a way of avoiding the smugglers of human beings, as the Prime Minister mentioned at the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105821	As it is today, I mean no. It's not. For the vast majority of asylum seekers, they are moving themselves today, and they are part of an asylum system which is fundamentally unfair. It requires physical health, it requires financial resources, and it also requires many people to be subjected to abuse and other things in order to get there at all. So the asylum system has collapsed and I do not believe that the United Nations quota system in any way outweighs that. Having said that, we in the government would much rather have an asylum system based on quotas. We will do so for several reasons, both because we prevent the dangerous journey and the chaos that arose in 2015, for example, but also because it means that governments and parliaments around the world can decide for themselves how many people come here, because that is something you have to be able to decide for yourself. It cannot be determined by others who have access to the country and how many people have access to the country. Now it is going quite well in Denmark at the moment, but if we do not manage the number, the problems of integration will be far too great. We have seen too much of this in our own country too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105938	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217105940	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech. After all, we understand that the covid-19 has changed many of the work processes that must be around this. The problem is that time is running out, and we're still standing in the middle of the pandemic. The understanding we have gained is that European consensus is a difficult path to follow, and we have to say that it is because it has been tried for 40 years without getting that far. Is it not time that we said now that making a separate Danish solution with all that we take into account is the way we must go now? It's the path. It's the path. There's something we can do for ourselves. There we are master of our own house in relation to the decisions, and then we should take the lead. Then we will have to see if anyone else will back that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110039	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110042	We have always said that, if necessary, we are willing to go on our own, either in cooperation with others or only for ourselves. After all, we still need to be able to establish cooperation with third countries which will help to take their share of the task of making this organisation work properly. It is also in this light that we ask the Danish Parliament for support for a legislative proposal in this session, but in the next calendar year, when we will have the legal basis to make this system work. We hope for support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110118	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110122	Thank you. If you succeed in your efforts and you have reception centres in third countries, does the government want to ensure that conditions are similar to those in Denmark, so that children do not sit in those places?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110131	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110134	I do not know what exactly lies in the last part of the question. If there is in it that children per. automatic so must be transferred to Denmark, the answer is of course no. Because we cannot do that, and that is already the case today. There are millions of children on the run in this world, and it's the most vulnerable of all refugees. It cuts the heart, and it is, and should be, our collective conscience that we are not looking after the most vulnerable today. It is, in fact, my apology, my straightforward language, which is the most absurd in the current situation, namely that we are spending an incredible amount of resources on some of the strongest refugees who come here. Some of them have even been rejected, and they will not go back. We could have helped and we can help, for example. many more children in the world's refugee camps for the same amount of resources. So if there is in the question that children per. I am sorry to say that I have to say no to the automatic transfer to Denmark. But if the question is that Denmark is responsible in a reception centre for the condition in order, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110240	Then we'll thank the PM in this round. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217110253	Thank you. And let me start by saying that I fully agree with the Prime Minister that the refugee policy debate remains important, even though the current asylum figures are record low. Right now we're at about 60%. of the number of asylums for 2019, which was, moreover, the lowest number of asylums since 2008. Every day last year, on average, about three people drowned or disappeared across the Mediterranean in their attempt to reach Europe • three people every day. While people are drowning in the Mediterranean or being subjected to attacks on the roads up the Sahara against the Mediterranean, for many years there has been a political discussion in Europe about how to distribute the people who survive the trip through the desert and with the dinghy over the Mediterranean and put their feet on European soil and say: Asylum. But we have said this before and it is and will be a patchy solution to distribute asylum seekers in this way, and I do not understand why we do not spend more time finding more sustainable solutions. If we look around, unfortunately today there are major problems with a growing illegal subclass around Europe. It is people who have come here who have been refused asylum or who have been given a visa that has now expired but who refuse to go home. Instead, they go underground, live under the bridges or in railway stations and work illegally without rights... it can be in the cleaning industry, in restaurants, as bottle collectors or by feeding themselves by theft or by selling drugs. We have probably all heard of illegal migrant camps in Paris or other European cities, and that is not how it should end up in Denmark. But rejected asylum seekers and people who have come here without a visa and who do not go home, even though it has expired, are the product of the current immigration policy. And there is therefore a need to get to grips with the root of the nettle. There is a need to remove completely the reason why people are initially willing to jump on a dinghy and embark on a life-threatening journey. Because there is not and should not be free immigration into Europe. We need better control over who comes in. Access to Europe must be controlled by the states themselves, not by traffickers. This is precisely the way in which we are going to debate today, in other words a new asylum system. So thank you for calling today's debate. We have said from the beginning, since we presented our programme back in February 2018, that it is a difficult task. However, we will insist that we cannot look passively at the current situation simply continuing or escalating. Although the asylum figures in Denmark are quiet at the moment, we can risk ending up again in a situation where asylum figures are rising, and then we cannot afford to have just been passive and not to have acted on this. There is a need to rethink our entire asylum system so that fewer migrants are taken hostage in the business model of traffickers; so that fewer people die and are subjected to attacks along the routes; but also so that Denmark and other European societies are not threatened with our internal security, for example. of rejected asylum seekers, or threatened with our cohesion, by the fact that immigration is too large for our country. We continue to believe in the government that the best way to do this is to put an end to the current asylum system, which encourages migrants to take the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean Sea, and by moving asylum procedures and the protection of refugees outside the European Union. We believe that we can help more and better if we do it closer to the conflicts. That is also why we have decided to increase support for the neighbourhood. And we are also going to go further in this direction when it comes to prioritising development funds. In addition, the government wants primary access to the protection of refugees in Denmark to be through legal roads, as is the case with controlled resettlement through the UN, or as we do, for example. know it from our business and study schemes. Quota refugees from neighbouring areas are fairer and more appropriate than the redistribution of spontaneous asylum seekers and irregular migrants who have been helped on their way to this end by traffickers. We therefore want to pursue a policy in which we are more in control of ourselves, how many and what foreigners come to Denmark, while at the same time wishing to take international responsibility. We have given ourselves a very, very difficult task in moving asylum procedures away from the European Union. To say the least, setting up a reception centre in a third country is not something you can fix with a fingertips. However, we believe that this is the right solution to really make up for the loss of control caused by illegal migration today. And I believe that we must be prepared to go very far to make our proposals a reality. That is why, as the first Danish government, the government is doing the legal legwork which confirms that it is possible to do this within our international obligations, that is to say to move asylum procedures. This means that we can put forward a legislative proposal at the beginning of the new year, giving us the necessary national legal basis to use to transfer asylum seekers to a country outside the European Union. The legislative proposal lays the legal basis for our vision of a new and fairer asylum system, and it is one step on a long road, but it is one step further than we have been before. In addition to creating the national legal basis, as the Prime Minister has just mentioned, we have set up a task force. It's a group of officials who are working dedicatedly on putting full steam on the boilers and getting these visions realized. We have appointed a new ambassador to strengthen dialogue with partner countries both inside and outside Europe, which will help to break the business model of traffickers. And through development aid, we have started to support development projects along migration routes, among others. focusing on making countries better able to protect their own borders against illegal migration and on supporting countries in repatriating migrants to their countries of origin, but also with the aim of getting into dialogue with governments on common interests in gaining more control over migratory flows and perhaps laying the foundations for further cooperation. The challenges must not be dealt with only when they are knocking on the door at the Danish border. We need to work more strategically in the neighbourhood and along migration routes, and very much in cooperation with other European countries, and that is exactly what we have done. For example: I would like to mention that we have spent 15 million. kr. In the Western Balkans, migrants who are still only on the move towards the European Union will be able to return home voluntarily and with a little economic help, for example. to Pakistan, and be reintegrated into society there, with a bag of money from Europe in the luggage. In addition, we support, among other things: also an information campaign in the Horn of Africa, targeted at asylum seekers and other people considering migrating irregularly to Europe, with a further 16 million. kr.; we have just launched this. The campaign must contribute to providing credible information about the journey itself, but also about conditions if they are to arrive. More than half of the Eritreans who have seen a similar campaign were less likely to travel with the traffickers after receiving such honest reports from those who had already taken the trip. Finally, we have supported similar projects in Tunisia and Rwanda to deal with migration. In Tunisia, it was about helping to keep their borders, among others. Algeria, and in Rwanda, it is about the resettlement of some of the vulnerable asylum seekers and refugees who have ended up in some of these truly terrible detention centres in Libya and giving them a future in another African country. I really think this is commendable by the Rwandan Government, and I think that as a European country we should support it. The projects must help to reduce migration flows before they reach Europe. And that is why it is also a step in the right direction in the Danish Government's efforts for a fair asylum system. Several of these projects have also been launched in cooperation with other European countries. As expected, the European Commission's proposal for a new Common Asylum and Migration Pact did not include a proposal for reception centres in third countries. And even though the Commission's proposals have other good tactics that run counter to our policy on several points, among other things. improving the repatriation of rejected asylum seekers and creating more efficient external borders and strengthening efforts on migration routes, the measures are not enough if we are to succeed in breaking the unhealthy structure of the current asylum system. This is precisely why we in Denmark will continue our efforts to explore the possibility of creating a new asylum system with partner countries both in Europe and along migration routes. And I would like to say very frankly that, of course, I do not know the date when our ambition to move asylum procedures to a country outside the European Union can be met. However, we insist that we want to change the asylum system that benefits neither the countries of Europe nor the world's refugees, and we are pursuing our policy and working seriously with it. I am also convinced that most parties today think that the best thing would be if we could get things moving quickly. Of course, we think so ourselves, but that is not the case with difficult tasks like this one. It's a big and a complicated task. We have said that since we proposed it, but we are working hard. It is true that the corona situation has slowed down a great deal, among other things. Because we don't have the same opportunities to travel. I had to, for example. even had been in Africa a few weeks ago, and it did not succeed. But it has by no means cancelled our ambitions; we are working everything we can within the framework of the current situation as regards travel activity. With those words, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this matter. We look forward, of course, to the debate and look forward to hearing the contributions of the other parties in the Folketing as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111239	Thank you. There are brief comments. It's first, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111243	It can be a little bit difficult to believe that corona is preventing all international relations, as the Prime Minister announced in his opening address to the Folketing a large and comprehensive agreement that had been concluded with India. So you can make an agreement with India, but when it comes to referring asylum seekers to deal with their case in a third country, it is incredibly difficult because of corona. It is noted here. What might be interesting to know is which of the two challenges you face, which is actually the biggest one. So this is what the Minister calls international conventions, that is, the fact that the Folketing has put itself in abeyance and must not do what you want, because there are some old politicians who have adopted something at a different time that is the greatest challenge, or is it really finding a third country that will accept these people? Because we in the Danish People's Party in no way feel obliged to all these conventions. They need to be rewritten into modern times. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear which one of the two challenges is the greatest for the government: is it the formal legal, namely the conventions, or is it the practical thing to find some countries that will work with Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111353	The last challenge is the biggest, because there is nothing in the rules that we have made a legal assessment of, and it is the Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, and then the EU rules that Denmark is bound by, we have a legal reservation, and it also means that we have more options than other EU countries that prevent us from setting up a reception centre and moving asylum procedures out. There is little in the Danish law on foreigners which prevents us from doing so, and that is why we are putting forward a bill which the Danish Parliament will have to deal with after New Year. Of course, we hope that there will be support for this. And the law is in place. What remains then is to establish confidential cooperation with a third country which can see a mutual interest in Denmark moving the asylum procedure out. And when I emphasize the mutual interest, it is because I would also like to say here to the Folketing that nothing is free. We will also have to engage as a country in a real dialogue with another country, and they will perhaps propose some other things in return.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111458	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111503	Thank you. The Prime Minister said before the elections that the Prime Minister was ready for Denmark to take the lead if it was not possible to bring other countries in connection with the establishment of a new asylum system, and just now the Prime Minister repeated that nothing has changed after the Social Democracy has gained power. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is ready to take the lead, on behalf of Denmark, as the Prime Minister promised, and whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is also of the opinion that this can happen during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111540	In any case, we are working hard on this, so that it should be implemented as soon as possible rather than tomorrow. Then it is true that we said before the elections that it is not a precondition for our policy that it should be achieved through the European Union. We are happy to repeat this today. The Prime Minister has just done so, and I would also very much like to repeat that we have said from the outset that we would very much like to cooperate with other European countries, but that should not be a precondition. Of course, we are trying to reach out to other European countries, and this is also a discussion, bearing in mind that there are many other European countries running. It is not necessarily in a way where governments are one hundred per cent in agreement with us, but there are more with which we share a large part of the analysis and where I can also sense that there will be an increasing common recognition that something fundamental new has to be done with the European asylum system. And I absolutely believe that Denmark should be ready, either in conjunction with some European countries or perhaps only to realise the ambition if it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111637	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111642	Now that we know that we have been trying to create an EU track with a reception centre in a third country for many, many years, in other words for more than one generation, should we not have a plan B? Not just the plan B that you can create your reception centre for yourself, but also in relation to looking at another EU track. After all, the last government had a vision paper drawn up with Austria, which also seeks to rethink the way in which we carry out European asylum policy. Can the Minister tell us whether he is still backing up the ideas of the last government's cooperation with like-minded nations in Europe and is following the lead if it is now the case that we are not succeeding in what has failed for 40 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111743	But I would like to start by saying that there has been a new government both in Austria and in Denmark. But that does not change the fact that cooperation on immigration and integration policies between the Danish and Austrian Governments is strong. We have, for example. in the context of the European discussions on the new Asylum and Migration Pact sent joint letters only from the Danish and Austrian Governments to the Commission with common positions on how we stand on a number of elements that form part of the Commission's Asylum and Migration Pact. So it's definitely one of our closest allies. I would also like to say that I personally am comfortable with several of the ministers who are in the Austrian Government. I think they go very constructively to the discussion. Then it is true that there has been a debate and vision in Europe for many years on how to establish a fairer asylum system. And in this way, it is not something the Social Democracy has pulled out of a hat. We are on the shoulders of many years of debate. What we can also just see is that something as trivial as sitting down and doing the legwork • the legal analysis, for example, of how it should be concretely linked • we have at least found nothing. It's first something we're going to present from this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111849	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111854	Thank you. When it is the case that you go to the polls on a matter of priority, especially someone who really clears the headlines, you do as a party some kind of contract with the Danes. You say to the electorate, if you give me your cross, if you vote for me and I come to power, then I'm gonna pay this election vow. Unfortunately, we are nowhere near that. And that's why we from Conservatives and I also think it's the common denominator for all the blue parties that haven't gone to the polls on this because we don't think it's realistic to sell the dream that the contract with the Danish chooses. So if it is the case that the Social Democratic Party has still not managed to make this reception centre outside Europe the next time we make elections, will it continue to be an election promise and will it continue to be a matter for the Social Democratic Party to try to sell it here, even though it has clearly not been realistic so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217111946	I would like to start by saying that I would like to warn a little about the fact that we are falling back on the couch and saying that this is not realistic. So, it has to start with the analysis: it is totally untenable how the existing European asylum system is screwed up. I believe that many Europeans concluded from the crisis in 2015 and 2016 that this is simply not going any further. The agreement Europe made with Erdogan was right and necessary and good. However, everyone can see that it was an expression of the fundamental nature of the European asylum system, which is extremely unfair. It has to be the basic analysis. On top of that, politics must be built. We believe that this is the right policy and we will do everything we can to realise it, and the worst thing we can do is simply to find out that it is not realistic. I would like to put it this way: if the Danish Government is toppling today and there will be a bourgeois government tomorrow, then I would urge a future bourgeois government to work further along the path we have set. Because we have come a bit along the way, both with law, with diplomacy and with practicalities, and it would be so awful bad if everything were just thrown into the trash.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112056	Then we thank the ministers in this House and now turn to the rapporteurs and therefore also to the general possibilities for short remarks. First of all, Mr President, it is the rapporteur of the questioners. Mads Birded. And I forgot to say at the outset that there is an opportunity to finish up at the door of the speaker, and I would therefore like to call on the rapporteurs to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112134	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for standing up for this important debate. I guess there's hardly anything I've spent more time reading up to the last election than the act of Justice and Realism, that is, the great aliens of Social Democracy. And there was much in it that was both fair and there was much in it that was realistic. There was also something that was unrealistic, namely what is the big battle number in the show: a reception centre outside Europe that had to put an end to obtaining a stay in Denmark by seeking spontaneous asylum at the Danish border. Spontaneous asylum seekers would in future be sent to a reception centre where their case would be dealt with. And should it turn out that other countries would not be part of the plans, then Denmark will, if necessary, go alone to realise this project. As it says in the motion: "Social democracy's plan can be realized by Denmark alone." We are now probably there in the Left that we say that if we are to maintain some kind of realism about this, then it is good to continue working on a track that is about achieving European consensus on it. But we probably think that you should look at making a solution alone if this is to become something other than just something you write up for an election. Just before we enter 2021, we have to realise that we have not really come any closer to establishing a reception centre outside Europe. We have some talk about good contacts and also ministers in other European countries with which we work well. But when you talk to those responsible in this area, you can hear at European level that there is no support for such a reception centre. The EU does not support the work and it does not appear that there are countries that want to house a reception centre. In the Left, we share the Government's intention that a new asylum system is needed. The current system is unsustainable, it is unwise, it is unfair. It was also a big headache for us at the time. We want to remove the basis for trafficking in human beings and, at the same time, ease the pressure on Europe's external borders. Refugees must not be able to wander through several countries until they choose to seek asylum here. When we sat in government, we presented a vision paper with Austria, which was also very ambitious. Perhaps so ambitious that it was hard to see how realistic it was here and now. But that's why it was substantial. There were such things that could be taken at a time in order to be able to constantly achieve closer to the objective we had, namely a fairer asylum policy. And the clear purpose was that it was the end of walking through several countries before seeking asylum. You had to be sent back to the first safe country you arrive at. There was good support from other EU countries for the work we started with Austria and we want a new, long-lasting asylum system. However, unlike the government, we believe that there is something that can be more dreamy and unrealistic, but that we must also look at what is realistic and something that we can honestly say to the electorate that we can actually achieve. And we have long since acknowledged that we cannot do this alone. Of course, European solutions are, by their very nature, needed. And instead of continuing along the constructive path that we put in the government, we have had this talk about a new system that is not really going to happen. It's been 11⁄2 years since the Social Democracy got the power to change this. I'm not gonna stand here and say it's a bluff or anything. This is not the debate I want to have at all. We just have to say that this is an exciting theoretical debate, but it will not change anything in the short run. I hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will recognise today that a reception centre outside Europe is a more theoretical debate and that we will have to follow other tracks if we really want to change the current asylum system. With these words, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of all the bourgeois parties. Conservatives, New Citizens, Liberal Alliance, Danish People's Party and the Left I understand support for the text that I am reading now. For the record, it is Conservatives who have been in charge of the text here, and thank you to Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth for it. Proposals for adoption Denmark has major problems with asylum seekers, where, for example, crime is committed to the Danes. Parliament notes that the government has had a year and a half to start work on the establishment of a reception centre for asylum seekers outside Europe. It is therefore highly unsatisfactory that nothing has happened yet. The Danish Parliament further notes that the Prime Minister has not followed up the promise from the opening speech in 2019 to lead a new asylum system with asylum treatment outside Europe. It's highly critical. The Danish Parliament urges the government to start work on a new asylum system as soon as possible with the establishment of a reception centre outside Europe, as promised in 2019. V 36)
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112723	Thank you for that and it will be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112734	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mads Birded for one, I think, actually in many ways reflected speech, although I also think it was such a little pessimistic in its tone to a certain extent, but nevertheless also with some reflections. I have one question: what specific action was taken by the Left and the then government to follow up these headlines or ideas or ideas, I do not know how much it was, but what was done with Austria? What was done in concrete terms after the meeting with Austria came home? We went back to the ministries and started to clarify that what are we doing now in legal terms and so on? etc., or what actually happened afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112811	Now the rapporteur asks about some debates which, for good reasons, as rapporteur, I myself was not part of at the time, but more so has been informed on the other hand, so it is kind of difficult for me to respond directly to it. However, there was contact with other European countries, and the European work to be carried out was supported in order to get a wider circle of countries to support the vision paper produced with Austria.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112833	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112837	Thank you. Well, I fully understand that. I'm a newly elected man myself, too, but I still think I can help Mr. Knox. Mads Birded a little. 'Cause I'm afraid you didn't really do anything. When the current government came into government offices, there were no such legal reports or assessments or notes that showed what is now possible and how to move forward with these ideas of creating a new asylum system. That is the reason why the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration launched this work. So it was actually more just a comment. You can do that according to the Rules of Procedure, I know or a service information. Sir, I'm afraid so. Mads Birds themselves assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112912	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112915	That's really good service information to get. We did some of the work, and then the voters wanted it so that we should not continue. But then there is something that can be picked up if you want to follow more tracks than what, unfortunately, seems to be a more unrealistic track, so that, as I said before, you have a plan B for your fair but unrealistic alien initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112941	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217112956	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Left and the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party and the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for having called this very relevant inquiry debate. In the Social Democratic Party, we would like to prevent us from experiencing new migratory and refugee flows such as those we experienced shortly after the bourgeois government came to power in 2015. As you are all aware, we are therefore working to find a model for a reception centre outside Europe. The current asylum system is not working; it is dysfunctional and unfair, and it is an asylum system that takes into account money and physically strong asylum seekers and refugees. The weakest refugees are left without help in the neighbourhoods. That is why we want to reform the current asylum system so that we have a fairer and more sustainable asylum system. The asylum treatment must, as far as possible, take place outside Denmark's borders. Our plan to set up reception centres in third countries is that spontaneous asylum seekers coming to Denmark should be transferred to a reception centre in a third country, and asylum procedures should then take place here. If asylum seekers are refused, they must be sent home. If they are refugees, they must be protected in the country concerned and not in Denmark. Our objective to establish reception centres in third countries will slow down the flow to Denmark, and this will ensure that access to Denmark is controlled by Denmark and not by traffickers. The current asylum system is unfair and dysfunctional; we spend far too much money to help people who are not refugees at all. We need an asylum system that is humane, realistic and fair and that removes the incentive that causes people in the Third World to take the dangerous journey towards Europe. In those words, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Parliament considers it essential that a fair and humane asylum system is worked out. Parliament notes that the government is working to establish a system for the transfer of asylum seekers to asylum treatment in third countries, which is ending the incentive structure that requires migrants to embark on the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. The Danish Parliament supports national and international efforts to achieve this. At the same time, Parliament notes that it is not a prerequisite for achieving this that there is support in the EU. Parliament notes that a task force has been set up to achieve this ambition. A draft law is put forward to create the necessary legal framework for this. The Folketing supports the government's continued work for a fair and humane asylum system. It is a complex work that requires persistence for a long time. The Danish Parliament notes the momentum of the work and the Government's commitment to continue to give priority to this work. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113237	Thank you. The proposal will be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113247	Thank you for that, President. I actually think that, uh... Rasmus Stoklund and I share the desire to tighten up the policy on foreigners. At least that's how I know mr. Rasmus Stoklund. And I have no reason to believe that he speaks against better knowledge or tries to seduce anyone. He doesn't have a long career behind him in politics, but maybe in front of him. On the other hand, people who for a long time have been longing to enter the Prime Minister's Office might well be suspected of having motives other than those put forward by such a profane, namely to go after power instead of actually realising the promises made to the electorate. That is why I would like to hear if we now have these programmes presented by the Social Democratic Party before Mr. Rasmus Stoklund was elected to the Danish Parliament, in February 2018 and summer 2019 etc., what expectations Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has for it to be converted. I mean, are we talking about this parliamentary assembly? Are we talking before a parliamentary election? Are we talking in this decade? Can we just get some sort of estimate of when the Social Democratic Party intends to implement their promises to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113353	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113356	Without going further into this subject of motive research, I do not think it is an impression that I share. It is a completely sincere wish from the whole of the Social Democratic Party that we do something about the way the asylum system works. It is not only a question of pursuing a strict immigration policy, it is also a question of taking a much more humane approach to the world's afflicted. It is, in fact, a broad-based wish. I also think that the motive research might come up against a little when you look at what happened after you took over the keys to the various ministries. One of the first things that happened in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, for example, was to get the legal work going, which is a prerequisite for moving on to this track at all. The second part, of course, is that several ministries have set in motion the work on diplomacy, that is to say, contacts with other countries, other governments to talk about possible areas of cooperation, solutions, etc. I could understand the criticism and suspicion if nothing had happened and if the government had, like, hidden it in a drawer and then had not done any further, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113511	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113514	But that's what we're trying to figure out, that's what actually happened. I notice that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund does not answer the question of whether the expectations are that this is happening in this Assembly or just this decade. I would remind you that Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as party chairman back in February 2018, said that it was especially when you had government responsibility that things really started to move. Even so, it seems that after New Year's, some passages in the law on foreigners have been changed. So that's why I'm asking again, sir. Rasmus Stoklund: When does the Social Democracy intend to implement the promise given to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113555	Thank you. When I didn't answer the question before, it was because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asked a number of questions, and I tried to answer as many as possible within the limits of speaking time. We intend to implement this as soon as possible. But it is clear, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is very well aware that it takes more people to dance tango here, and that is why there is a great deal of work to be done in continuing to establish contacts with other countries. This is not something you do overnight. The government has been in power for a year and a half. In the meantime, preparations are being made. In this session we will be dealing with a legislative proposal which will clarify the legal framework. After all, this is more than was done in the wake of the headlines established under the previous government. Finally, I would like to say that I think that some of the thinking behind the projects launched this summer in cooperation with both... second Vice-President Yes!). Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113639	Unfortunately, there is not much time available. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113647	I think that was stopping in the middle of a sentence. When I joined the Danish Parliament in 2015, it was among other things. in order to back up a political line where one would really make a change of course away from Helle Thorning-Schmidt's massively relaxed alien policy and to a tight alien policy. It has to be said that with 114 plus austerity, that really was what the VLAK government did. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund then went to the polls to back up a social democratic government that would create an exit centre outside Europe, and all that can be said right now is that the legal legwork is being done. I'm sorry, sir. Is Rasmus Stoklund not aware of being part of a party that has gone to the polls on such a significant issue, without in fact being able to present in the real world anything that is within realistic reach?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113738	First of all, let me reflect on what Mr. Marcus Knuth went to the polls to conduct a strict immigration policy. I can say that the Social Democrats do too, and that is what we do in practice. What is sometimes a bit funny about these discussions is that on the one hand we are being shot in the shoes, that we are pursuing a lax foreign policy and, on the other hand, we are receiving innumerable requests that we are almost in line with the worst sinners in racist war crimes, and I do not know what. When you look at some of the basic pillars, it is not exactly made easier. The rules for permanent residence permits have been a major discussion over the last week, as have citizenship and the rules for what the Minister has, moreover, called for negotiations on where he has clearly indicated the direction in which the negotiations should take. I mean, I think the government is moving in the right direction on all these issues. When it comes to this, it's clear that it's not something you do overnight. After all, we have moved somewhat further than the previous government did with the headlines it was written as Mr. Mads Fuglede so finely explained in his speech but, of course, without following up properly with rye bread work at home in the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113842	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113845	It is not because we do not share the vision of a reception centre outside Europe. We do so wholeheartedly. But to go to the polls on such a big headline, when it is so far away from reach, we really feel to be sticking a tow in the eyes of the Danes. So if it is the case that during this period of government it is not possible to create this reception centre, how many more times in the future will the Social Democratic Party go to elections at a reception centre outside Europe which, in fact, cannot be set up in the short run?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113918	I believe that we have been honest about the challenges from the start. I also think it can be said that we are not blinding anyone, precisely because we are working seriously and decisively on this project. The case was different if you just sat over in government offices and laid seven solitaires and saw Netflix, but that is not the case. You actually work hard to make this work, and as long as you do, I think we can, with a good conscience, stand up for this. I also think it can be said that we are also demonstrating by other means and by the way the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration works that this thinking can be extended to other areas. It could, for example, be done. be the projects launched this summer jointly with Tunisia and Rwanda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217113955	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114004	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund wanted to go to Mr. Stoklund. Morten Messerschmidt's question does not put its head on the block, in relation to whether the proposal would be implemented within this decade. So whether it was within this decade and it actually reminds me of the proposal from the Socialists in which the election promise was launched. And that play had a title of three Does the rapporteur remember what the last word was?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114034	First of all, the head of the block I do not want to place in any context whatsoever. That's one thing. Secondly, the last word is realist. And I think there are two things in this. Firstly, we believe that this is realistic. We don't think this is just, what should you say, somebody's idea. And I think that is actually very well confirmed by the fact that Mr. Mads Fuglede told about how similar considerations had been made in the previous government, but without following up on them with action and concrete work at home in the ministries. That's where the headlines stayed. Anyway, it's realistic in its idea. However, it is clear that what is also in the word realistic is, of course, what to say, a contradiction to the lack of sustainability in the current asylum system. It is also the creation of a realistic asylum system which is not based on the fact that it is traffickers who control access to Europe or that only the richest and strongest relatively young men have access to security in the West.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114139	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114143	It's a good thing, sir. Rasmus Stoklund remembered the third word in the title. And the play has also been launched with a big picture of the current prime minister ahead. So I am sure that the Prime Minister had been very obsessed with whether the rapporteur could remember what the title of the play was. And I can now understand that the playout with a quote from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is: realistic as an idea. Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that it is realistic to have this Social Democratic election promise carried out during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114208	Yes, well, it depends entirely on whether or not we can find someone with whom we can work. In that case, it is realistic that it will not succeed during this parliamentary term, it is not realistic. And that's clear. That's where Mr. Morten Dahlin also wanted me to put my head on a block before, so he could cut it off if he didn't succeed. And that's where we don't share interest. I'm not gonna put my head on any block. As long as you are working hard on this, I think I can say with a clear conscience that it is something that can be done if we have the right contacts and if we can find a partner who can see for himself; who can see that there is also an interest in it for them that then I certainly think this is realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114244	Thank you. There are no more questioners, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114312	Thank you, President. Corona has really challenged confidence in the system, in politicians, in the whole of society. That is why, more than ever, we as politicians need to ensure that we are honest with the electorate, both in terms of saying what we want to say, but also in a way that shows that we can do it in a realistic way; that is, to put forward plans for where we would like to see Denmark tomorrow, in 5 years and in 10 years' time, but also to indicate a way to get there. For 25 years, the Danish People's Party has been the leading voice for a strict immigration policy... get criminals expelled and say no to migrations against Europe and against Denmark... and for 25 years it has been a great success; in fact, so great a success that others have wanted to join. After all, as politicians, you cannot experience something more beautiful: others start saying the same thing as yourself unless they only say it and really do not. Because if the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party today can be rhetorical, yes, there is no doubt that when it comes to implementing the policy, there is an abyss of difference. For a year and a half, the Prime Minister has now been Prime Minister. Rasmus Stoklund has now been a member of the Folketing, and for a year and a half Mr. Mattias Tesfaye was Minister of Integration. Nevertheless, there is no time perspective as to when these centres will become a reality. We can see that France has succeeded in setting up a centre. We hear that there is an agreement in Austria with Serbia, etc., but the Danish Prime Minister's Office has not even come to the conclusion that a bill has been put forward to enable people at the border to be rejected within the current law on foreigners after a year and a half! Like other rapporteurs, I would like to remind you of what the President of the Social Democratic Party went to the polls: Justice and Realism. It was from February 5, 2018, and on May 24, 2019 it also said: "Judged and realistic'. Righteous to Whom? To those voters who, blindly confident that Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as Prime Minister, would turn this into real politics, believed in her? No, it has to be said that there was not much justice. Realistic? Yes, we still have the benefit of seeing that, because what has been done by the government here? What concrete steps has the government taken here? We can't be told. All we are told is: Well, after New Year, you will see to it that the Danish law is put in place. It's quite simply too lax. It is irresponsible, not just to the Social Democratic Party, for peace be with the Social Democracy, but to the Danes; to the Danes who trusted and believed that this was translated into politics. We in the Danish People's Party will still persistently say the right thing and point the way. It is therefore our wish that, if this is not in place before this parliamentary assembly expires, Denmark should terminate the refugee convention. This will de facto mean that asylum can no longer be sought in Denmark. The fact that, at that time, the government has not designated a safe third country to allow the treatment to take place does not seem to us to be nearly as important, almost as serious as implementing what was said a few years ago was both realistic and fair. We will no longer accept, on behalf of either the Folketing or the Danes, that a government is thus playing kispus with the Danes, and that in this way one is pretending that one wants something but really does not deliver it. You've had the opportunity. This is the time to deliver, Prime Minister. Now is the time to deliver, Minister of Integration, not just rhetoric, not just glitter paper, but action! In fact, this is not just about having power, it is actually about doing the right thing: a strict immigration policy, a consistent expulsion policy, because Denmark is not just a welfare society because it is not just a project, but because it is all our country of origin. And that's why thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, so we move on. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217114947	Thank you for the floor. A new asylum system must be European. Danish and European security starts in Africa, and if we are to manage the challenges posed by human trafficking, trafficking and illegal migration, the battle must therefore be in the vicinity of Europe and not, as today, at the border boom at Kruså. However, creating a real alternative to the current situation, where for many people the trip across the Mediterranean is the only way of refuge, is neither simple nor free of charge. Nevertheless, it is essential for us in Denmark as well as in Europe to be able to deal better with the refugee situation. However, the solution to the unacceptable refugee situation also requires more than targeted investment in North Africa's development, and if we are to ensure that fewer people risk life and body crossing the Mediterranean Sea, then it must be possible for them to seek refuge before boarding a dwindling barge on the coast of Libya. That is why the Radical Left would like to see reception camps set up along the routes which refugees are currently using on their way to Europe. The camps must be run by local governments, but must be financed fully by the EU Member States, which, in return, will be assured that the countries concerned will assume responsibility for bringing together all refugees and dealing with their cases, also in accordance with the UN Human Rights and Refugees Conventions. With such a system, asylum seekers who are denied their application will be able to return home more easily and more quickly, while those who acquire refugee status will, as a starting point, receive help and protection locally. In this way, we will solve two fundamental issues: firstly, we will ensure that economic migrants who today benefit from poor cooperation in Europe are prevented from using the system, in the certainty that the road to Europe goes through another African country with similar living standards, and secondly, we will ensure that those who really need help and protection can get it both faster and closer to their homeland than today. On behalf of the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, I would like to make this point: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the current asylum system is inadequate. There is an imbalance in the distribution of refugees in Europe right now, and countries such as Greece and Italy are carrying out an excessive share of the task that is not fair. Denmark has both room and afford to receive more refugees, for example. through the United Nations quota refugee system. • V 38).
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115253	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the further debate. There's a comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115301	Thank you, President. Now it is well known that the Radical Left is gradually, and that is something I say with enthusiasm, a rather marginalised party. We have still managed to place ourselves in such a position that the government is dependent on the Radical Left, but politically, in what is said in the field of foreigners, it is only the left-wing aller who agrees with Mr Alleraller. Kristian Hegaard. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear how Mr. Kristian Hegaard actually looks at the suggested proposal from the Minister for Integration: that is, the fact that it will now create the legal basis for Denmark to enter into an agreement with a possible third country in order to reject asylum seekers who may come to Denmark. Is this something we can expect the Radical Left, as a support party to the government, to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115346	In fact, I believe that there are more who share the Radical Left's view that if we are to deal seriously with the asylum system, it must be made European. The fact that there is not equal support among the EU Member States or the sufficient drive, I do not believe that the Radical Left is marginalised. In relation to the forthcoming legislative proposal, which is, after all, contained in the legislative programme, we still have the merit of seeing the content of it, and until we have seen it, we cannot, for good reasons, assess it further at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115419	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115422	So it gets to hang in the air. It will be exciting if we have an integration minister in January with our hat in hand who cannot count on his own parliamentary basis to implement such a central part of an electoral programme. It's an interesting situation we had to be in here. What I just need to hear, sir. Kristian Hegaard about here in the second round, relates that Mr. Kristian Hegaard says a lot about having a solution in the European Union, and that is well known. I think that if it were up to the Radical Left, Denmark would be completely disbanded in the European United States. I understand that, but I do not know whether it is the government's policy, but at least it is the Social Democrats' programmes. Does the Radical Left oppose such a purely Danish solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115501	I think it is quite natural that we should, of course, look at the content of a legislative proposal. There's no drama or anything in seeing it. In relation to a purely Danish solution, do we see it on the part of the Radical Left as something unrealistic, because should each EU country have its own camp? We think that would be inappropriate, and that is why we see only a European solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115527	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115554	This is an ongoing discussion: in other words, the asylum system must be reformed and, if so, how? Today it is about what the government has done to set up reception centres in third countries. It is an extremely complex discussion whether there is any need for one at all. If I may make a withdrawal attempt to surprise a little from the platform today, I would say that I really think there can be. The asylum system is, in my opinion and SF's opinion, out on the ropes. There has been a breakdown in several international negotiations on the subject, and although fortunately we are closer to the goal now, we are still sitting away with a system that redisplaces too few people too indiscriminately and which requires blood, sweat and tears and cold cash before one can be allowed to get to safety and safety. This is not acceptable, and part of the reason is that we on the left must be honest about the fact that there are still strong myths and incentives that make asylum search from so-called apparently groundless pursuits. That is to say, people who can be told by any case officer in the system will be denied asylum because they simply do not have a convention-covered protection need. But if we're gonna be honest about that, on the left, then the right wing must also be honest about their motives to push for these reforms. Unfortunately, we sometimes get the impression that it is not a question of ensuring better protection for those who are really in need, but simply of ensuring that as few refugees as possible receive the protection they are entitled to. I can imagine a hypothetical world where SF backs reception centres in third countries, but if that were to happen, a number of criteria would have to be met. Among other things: shouldn't put children in them. That's what I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115807	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115810	I think it is commendable that parties on the left have come to a new realization. Nor do I think we bourgeois should be so small not to praise. It's taken a while. Now I know that Mr. Carl Valentin may not have been a member of the Socialist People's Party back in 1983......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are, after all, some who bear, even on their own, the consequences of the failed immigration policy: rape victims, people who have been subjected to social control and so on. Well, it's kind of up to now to apologize. So I just want to know if the Socialist People's Party would like to apologize for the failed immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115911	I think that the debate is being very wide-ranging here. It is important to distinguish between integration policy and asylum policy and between this debate, which is about a dysfunctional asylum system, and the efforts for rape victims and many of the things that get involved in this. I will not stand here apologizing for the policy of aliens and integration of the Socialist People's Party with retroactive effect for decades. It is clear that in some areas the SF has moved forward, the debate has moved forward in general, but I do not think that we are in any way responsible for a deeply misguided immigration policy or something in the way Mr. Morten Messerschmidt more than suggests here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115950	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217115953	But I think so to a great extent. The hundreds of thousands of non-integrated Muslims who have entered Denmark have not come out of thin air. They have come here because the laws were what the Socialist People's Party wanted. You have come here because the Social Democrats, the Radicals, the Enhedslisten, and what all the other left-wing parties are called and called, actively opposed it every time we in the Danish People's Party tried to tighten up. So I don't really think it's too much to ask. Why on earth should not all those people who suffer on their own behalf because of the policy of foreigners, the Socialist People's Party and the rest of the left, have an apology, Mr. Carl Valentin?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120024	I still believe that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mixes things up a lot. I'd better clear up that misunderstanding, too, if mr. Morten Messerschmidt has the impression that SF has changed its position and today agrees with the Danish People's Party's policy on foreigners that this is absolutely not the case. There are still very, very big differences between the SF and the Danish People's Party on this agenda, and we will not come and apologize and say that the Danish People's Party was right, because we are still fundamentally opposed to the Danish People's Party on very many points.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120052	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120055	When you say from the SF that you do not think there should be children at a reception centre in a country outside Europe, where should those children be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120114	Now we have also arranged for the children to be moved to Avnstrup in Denmark. We need to have a concrete discussion on how it should be arranged if we reach the point where we have the opportunity at all. But one of the things that is important to us is that the best interests of the child are very important if you are going to establish something like this. The conditions in such a place must be similar to those in Denmark, and the group of people who come here must also be limited to some specific groups. We don't imagine sending families of children there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120152	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120153	Do I understand the answer correctly if it is the SF's view that children should not be at the reception centre in a country outside Europe, but that children's families should then be sent from that reception centre to Denmark if you do not think the conditions are right? That is why SF's position, I understand, is that you want to help change the asylum system, but you still have to move away from it if you show up with children. How many people do the SF actually imagine arriving at such a reception centre in North Africa, if you know you can come to Denmark with a child if you bring it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120237	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120238	I find it very difficult to explain how many will come to such a reception centre. And so I think it must also be the responsibility of the government to present how this should be done, since it is the government that is making the proposal here in which we look forward to discussing the details. We have some principles if we are to be able to agree to such a model, and that is, among other things, that it is not all groups that can be sent there, but that there are, of course, some that must be exempted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120305	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120310	I think the answer, as Mr. Carl Valentin gave on the question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was something thin on the edge. SF says you've been wrong. That's how you have to understand it, as Mr. Carl Valentin says that in relation to foreign policy, and this has actually been done for many years, because the SF has been one of the parties with which the Danish People's Party has had to contend. So have the Social Democrats, so have the Radicals, and so have the Enhedslisten, in various shades of the party, that is to say, parties that we have had to struggle with to have a strict immigration policy in Denmark, where we ensure that the Danes who have come into contact, because their territory has been inhabited by people from another part of the globe, get help, so that we can return the people concerned and we can have an asylum stop in Denmark. Then it is that sir... Carl Valentin says: This does not mean that we agree with the Danish People's Party. No, but that's not what Morten Messerschmidt asked. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked the question whether SF would apologize and regret that it has helped cause Danes to have their local area transformed into a multi-ethnic society. That was the question Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asked, and I would like to ask him that. Carl Valentin says, if SF will not take responsibility, that one has said no all the way through to the Danish People's Party's politics over the years, and now we are in the soup dance, and now SF thinks something that I can't quite figure out what is. Is that not to be regretted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120445	Once again, I think that the debate is being extremely simplistic. In other words, that SF has been wrong about foreign policy, I have not said from Parliament's platform, and foreign policy, integration policy and such things are broad. Now we're talking reception centers... a very small part... and then you want to spread the discussion out like that to the entire alien area. When I look back at the history of the left, there are clearly parts of the left who have not had the courage to speak out against social control and who have not recognized the problems of integration to the extent that they are there; I fully agree with that. But I do not believe that SF has been wrong about foreign policy in a broad sense, or that today it has in any way bought the position of the Danish People's Party on these issues. I think it is nuanced and that we must go down in the individual things if we are to have a debate on where we have become wiser and where we have potentially been wrong. And I do not think that the integration effort in Denmark would have gone better if the Danish People's Party had had the power • on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120549	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120551	Now we're gonna have to be sharp here, for that's what Mr. Carl Valentin apparently does not think that one has been wrong; one has not been wrong. But what we saw, as I understand it, is that perhaps no problems have been recognised about social control and integration policy. In other words, is this the only place SF has come to think better in foreign policy: that no challenges have been recognised in the past in the area of social control and integration? For then I should just say hello and say that there is certainly not much content in SF's immigration policy if the only thing is that we recognise it today. And then I understand that you will not apologize or complain about anything, because then you still think that we should have open borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120642	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120642-2	I do not think there are any Danish parties who think that, as such, we should just have open borders, perhaps Free Greens; I do not know that. But of course there are other areas where SF has changed position or at least moved over the years, but I think again it is a little violent to say that we should have been wrong in general and moved. That is not the case as such. I would also like to say that the SF in which I grew up from when I joined in 2007 is also one where, for example, Hizb ut-Tahir has been asked to go down h to. I do not know how to quote directly from the platform when it is something you cannot say from up here, but Mr. Villy Søvndal back in 2005. So the SF in which I grew up has, of course, taken a strong stand against extremists, against social control and against integration problems, so I do not quite recognise the premise here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120737	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120742	Thank you. Correct me if I am wrong, but what I hear the SF say is that, in principle, we support the idea that the social democracy before the elections and the government are now presenting about a reception centre that is outside the borders of Denmark and that we must treat the spontaneous asylum seekers who are now coming to Denmark. I also understand that the SF then says that there will be some groups that we don't think should be in these centres, for example. The children's families. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there are any other groups which should not be treated in these centres. I am thinking of the sick, the disabled and the elderly. How many groups do the SF and the rapporteur think should not be dealt with in the reception centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120834	Firstly, I do not want to say that we support it in principle, but we can see a model where we could end up being in favour if there are a lot of criteria that have been met. That's probably where the SF is at the moment. I cannot say exactly which groups it should be, but we would like to take part in some reflections on it. At first sight, I would say that those who could be there were people who obviously do not have the right to asylum, criminals and rejected asylum seekers. But we can have a further debate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120909	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120911	So this means that the SF does not imagine supporting a reception centre with the asylum treatment that is currently being done on Danish soil by people who come here spontaneously and travel through safe countries to reach Denmark. We do not support this arrangement, but we really support what is equivalent to an exit centre, that is to say what we already have in Denmark, an exit centre in a third country. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120939	Whether SF will be able to join the government's ideas here depends a little on how to organize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120946	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217120949	I stumbled at the rapporteur's statement that the SF has always been firm in the eyes of Islamists, that for example. Villy Søvndal has used the h-word against Hizb ut-Tahrir. It's really, really impressive, isn't it? Because, at the same time as we have dared to use the H word, we have supported and voted in favour of a large number of decisions to maintain a mild policy on foreigners, in other words, not to tighten the policy on foreigners. I find this extremely sad, because it has led us to have a Denmark where we spend huge sums of money on the integration of people who do not want to be integrated. We have an increase in crime. We have many more rapes than we would otherwise have had, because we can see that it is very much immigrants who are behind rapes. So what's that h-word worth?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121059	Once again, I think that the debate is spreading very violently in relation to what this is actually a question debate about. We say clearly to extremists and, as Mr. Villy Søvndal did at the time that if you want a caliphate, you can get out of the country in a way that it must be said on here from the Parliament's platform. I think that is essential and we are continuing to fight extremism, and we will do what we can to combat the integration problems that exist in that country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121130	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121132	However, the SF did not vote in favour of the many motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party that it should be easier to expel criminal foreigners. There is no point in going around saying the h-word if you do nothing to actually get people expelled, that is to say to have them sent out of the country or to have them denied their citizenship or whatever you can do. It's a free round, and I think that's sad. Today, the party has prided itself on a new rape law, but the party is also among some of those who are responsible for more rapes in Denmark because they have not taken care to send people out because they have supported a lax immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121208	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121209	In relation to expulsions, it is true that the Danish People's Party is able to present a lot of resolutions on which the SF has not supported, among other things. Because of human rights and many other different things. But we have also been reasonably clear in the spit that we also think that criminal foreigners should be expelled in certain cases. It is not for every kind of sentence that there is later today a proposal here in the Danish Parliament, but we do think that people can be expelled in general cases, and we have also worked actively for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121244	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur, and that is why it is Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121255	Thank you. People in the world cross borders for many reasons. Some do it out of love, others chasing a new job, others chasing greater social security, and then there are a lot of people fleeing war, oppression and threatening climate disasters. In the Enhedslisten, we support the UN Refugee Convention and its fundamental principle that a refugee with a need for protection is entitled to protection. As one of the most prosperous countries in the world, we have an obligation in Denmark to contribute to solving the world's refugee problems. There are now more than 80 million people on the run worldwide. So instead of talking about how we can set up a reception centre for asylum seekers outside Europe, we should instead talk about whether we are at all fulfilling our international obligations and, above all, our human commitments. As a society, we have spent the last 20 years tightening up immigration policy so much that we are in a great many ways at odds with what is legal and what is reasonable at all. We see the Convention on Human Rights as a fine declaration of intent, which just does not apply equally to Denmark, as it would be too much a burden for us to take it seriously. But now it is the case that we have committed ourselves to the Convention on Human Rights, and in the Enhedslisten we do not see the Convention on Human Rights as something we should go to the edge of, but we see it as something we are standing on our shoulders. It is, of course, a minimum of rights, not a maximum of rights. If we do not respect human rights in Denmark, how should we expect all other countries to do so? After all, we see a great many examples from southern Europe, where refugees with a need for protection instead of protection experience violations and human rights violations, which we cannot in any way vouch for. When you come to Europe because you have fled from war, you should not be subjected to inhumane conditions. You should not be beaten, you should not be robbed of your belongings, you should not be subjected to torture in asylum centres or in camps, as we see in Greece right now, and you should not be deprived of your human dignity. When you come to Europe to seek asylum, you must also have the opportunity to have your asylum application examined, and then of course you must have protection if you have a need for protection. With the proposal to set up reception centres for refugees coming to Denmark in a country outside the European Union, we are doing exactly the opposite of what we have a duty to do. We in Denmark apparently find it very difficult to deal with asylum seekers without the establishment of torture-like conditions at the centres, as the Council of Europe's Torture Committee concluded at the beginning of the year. That is not just what we mean in the Enhedslisten; it is therefore also something that the Council of Europe's Torture Committee has concluded. How on earth would we then be able to ensure that the refugees whom we have a duty to protect are not exposed to even worse conditions in other countries outside the European Union? So this appears to us in the Enhedslisten as a hopeless symbol policy. We do not believe that we can park the bill or the refugee in a third country, and that is why we can only support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Kristian Hegaard read.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121647	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121702	Thank you, President. I was so pleased when I heard that the Social Democratic Party went to the polls to create a reception centre outside Europe. For me, foreign policy is not about who gets the most votes, who has the power of government or who wins. It's about us taking care of Denmark. So if the Social Democratic Party had found a solution to a problem that the rest of us could not solve, then that would just be fantastic. What if we could avoid all the problems caused by asylum seekers and migrant influx in Denmark: crime, unemployment, parallel societies. Unfortunately, however, we see that the Social Democracy has not fulfilled the promise made to the Danes. We're not even near it. That is exactly why we feel that the Danes have been bumped into their eyes if possible to get some votes. It is not, of course, because we ourselves did not try every step when we had the power of government. So when Mr. Rasmus Stoklund says we didn't do enough, but then I don't think it's fair. With our 114 tightenings, the VLAK government was probably one of the most innovative in terms of tightening up Danish immigration policy in recent times. During our reign, Denmark raged down on the list of countries of the most popular destinations for migrants and asylum seekers. If you go back a step further, we had Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who, I suppose, chose tighter asylum policy... who drove buses around Copenhagen, where there were tighter asylum rules... and what happened? There came to me known 47 relaxations. So we are a little sceptical that the Social Democrats have made this promise. Again it was just up to an election campaign, and again the promise has not been fulfilled. But, of course, we hold the government to the fact that a status has to be given over and over again. As I said, I hope that we are the ones who are wrong and that the Social Democrats have a solution right around the corner, or at least within the realistic future, so that we can have a reception centre outside Europe. That would be something we wholeheartedly support. In the meantime, I am sure that we are going to have this debate over and over again to clarify precisely whether there is real work going on in this area or whether it is just hot air. Of course, we support the motion for a resolution which the Left has read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121917	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217121920	Thank you for your speech, sir. Marcus Knuth. Now Mr. Mads Fugler also said a little about how much was done by the previous government, and then he could not lift so much of the veil of what was done, besides making some declarations of intent or some headlines, so it may be that Mr. Marcus Knuth can make us smarter. What was done in concrete terms? This dialogue was evidently held with Austria, where a few thoughts were made about them in a fair and realistic manner. What did you do when you came home and you had the conversations and meetings here? Was it anything other than a press story? Are there any documents that have not come forward, some hidden piece of work that could be taken advantage of in the task force now set up, by the lawyers who are now working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration? Or didn't it really happen anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122002	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122003	I think, sir. Rasmus Stoklund knows very well that confidential documents from ministries are, of course, documents which may not be exactly available here. But of course there was a dialogue with different countries, of course there was. I myself have also participated in committee trips, among others. to countries in North Africa, where we hear from the local politicians and government partners, with whom we met, that they themselves were strongly pressured by asylum seekers and migrant streams who had come to their countries, and there was nothing to indicate that a reception centre could be created just within the short lane. And it's not because we don't want it, but we just feel like it's to stick a tow in the eyes of the Danes right up to an election campaign to make this big promise without you getting anywhere near it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122045	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122047	Well, I'm sorry to hear that you kept that job a secret from Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, but I can tell you that no work of major importance was done either, because when an Foreign Affairs and Integration Minister took over the keys and began to look at what was in the drawers around the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, he has told us on several occasions, including here in the Chamber, that nothing really lay. That's why he had to get the job started. He had to set up a task force, he had to make the legal clarification he needed to set in motion the bill which we are now going to be dealing with in this session, so that we have all the rye bread work in place before we can move forward with a possible reception centre. So, sir. Marcus Knuth, I'm sorry, but unfortunately nothing was done but to write some good press stories and some nice headlines, but a plus so and points for the intentions, thoughts and fine words. Action next time, if there may be a next time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122136	I certainly hope there will be a next time, but it is simply not true that nothing happened. After all, there was an ongoing dialogue with a number of countries. But I'm so glad to hear that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, as rapporteur, is one hundred per cent aware of all the talks the Minister has with various countries. There I can just say that there is a Social Democrat party rather more involved than the Left, but it is no longer my party, so we have to see what the future holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122158	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122209	The current asylum legislation is dysfunctional and inhumane. It supports trafficking in human beings, and it helps the few at the expense of the many. It causes great damage to Danish society and costs a great deal of money. In 2016 alone, the reception of asylum seekers in Denmark cost as much as 3 billion. kr. To a large extent, the people who do not share our values do not comply with our laws and who directly oppose our freedom, our democracy and the rule of the people. It is the main cause of the deep damage our Danish society has suffered over the past 40 years. Every year, the damage increases. There will be several Danish victims of criminal asylum seekers, and the bill remains massive. We must not continue to harm our country and support an inhumane asylum system. That is why we must abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. This can be done with relatively simple legislative changes without conflicting with international obligations and conventions. In May 2019, the predecessor of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that an asylum stop is not just a lack of political courage and will that stands in the way of abolishing access to spontaneous asylum in Denmark. In February 2018, Mrs Mette Frederiksen presented her ambition to abolish spontaneous asylum and introduce a fair asylum system with reception centre and asylum treatment outside Europe. In his speech at the opening of the Danish Parliament in 2019, the new Prime Minister promised to lead the work on a new asylum system. Unfortunately, however, we have not seen much action in the 18 months that the Socialist Government has been in power. On the contrary, we have consulted the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration more or less to the point of making plans. Now we have a bunch of blue parties calling the Minister for this debate, because it is quite unacceptable that nothing should happen. Gradually, I am quite convinced that the government does not have the political courage and will to go alone on behalf of Denmark and to take the lead as promised. But we are happy to do so in New Citizens. That is why we have tabled a proposal to abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. It will be discussed in the Folketing in February. Before the corona crisis really broke out, there was a new migrant crisis going on. President Erdogan of Turkey declared that he had opened the gate and that he would let millions of migrants take against Greece and Europe. And in these months, rubber boats with migrants cross the English Channel, and migrants flow to the Canary Islands. Now is the time to introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum if we in Denmark want to know who we are letting into our country. We should not allow the Turkish Islamist President Erdogan to act as a border guard against bribery. There's only ourselves to say no. It is we in the Folketing who must make the decision and introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum. If we do not protect the Danes, our borders and our society, the next wave of migrants will hit us as hard as it did during the migrant crisis in 2015 and 2016. I sincerely hope that a political majority in this House will find the courage and the will to take care of Denmark. We owe each other that much. We owe that to previous generations, and we owe it to our children and to those who have to come after it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122639	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122642	It's just a brief comment for the record and thanks for the speech. A small imprecise element of the speech was sneaked in. I also took part in the consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and I certainly do not remember any minister shooting anything down at that meeting. But I remember that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was honest about the challenges and the complexity of this task. I think we should then do away with ourselves if we want ministers or politicians at all, who are honest about challenges, but instead explain how they try to work to try to overcome them, or whether we would rather want ministers who behave like such supermen who do not take things seriously. It is not to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration cannot also be a superman, but I think that this honesty suits politicians in such a way. That is what I heard from the conciliation which I also took part in. So it was just a comment for the sake of history writing, not really a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122746	I very much appreciate honest politicians, and I share exactly the same view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration also in that consultation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration was honest that it is difficult to see it realistically resolved during this parliamentary term. And that's why you have to say that what you promised in 2018, which is among other things. It was that, in addition to being fair, it also had to be realistic, and what one promised was that one would like to take the lead on the Danish side, so one didn't have to bring other countries, but one would seek the opportunities • of course not become a reality. That is why I say in my rapporteur's speech that it was shot to the corner. I do not think that the Minister was saying that the wish was not still shared, as a large majority of Parliament does, but that it should be realistic to resolve it within the current parliamentary term, was what I experienced and heard. But please, if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122846	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122848	I will probably just repeat myself a little, because I really think that what marked that consultation was that the Minister was just not bombastic in his statements about dates and things like that. It would also have been totally irresponsible to be. The honesty and the, what to say, the involvement of the Folketing in the complexity and the challenges ahead, I think, is only positive. I think it is a pity that some have subsequently used it to interpret the text as if it were indulgence and the like on the part of the Minister, because I certainly did not see it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217122926	Well, I don't think you're giving up either. What I criticise, and which I also hear others criticise, is that before the elections, in February 2018, it was quite clear that you were ready to take the lead. You made it pretty clear that this was something you could only start when you were in power. Now you are in power, and then you just have to say that what was the headline in 2018, namely that it was realistic, is no longer quite right. I very much appreciate that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is honest and pragmatic, but it might have been good to have the honesty already in 2018, before the elections. But maybe there's not much new in that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123011	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123029	Thank you. The day after the elections in 2019 I was completely honest and it was breaking news: an honest politician! I think maybe we all need to think about that a little bit. But honesty is also, in fact, the theme of my rapporteur's speech, which I have written before Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's remarks, so thank you for the cue to make the next speech. I will start with something I have mentioned in the Chamber before, but for another group of rapporteurs and for another group of ministers, and I will therefore be able to repeat it. My next book will be a book on the following issues: There are quite a few examples of things that the majority of the population are opposed to, but which changing governments and Parliament still do not move to change, although most people in Denmark are opposed. I could, of course, use my speaking time, just as there are several rapporteurs who have done, to tease the government that a reception centre for asylum seekers outside Europe is easier said than done, but I will not do so because the seriousness of the matter speaks against that kind of teasing. The fact is that the vast majority of Danes are opposed to Denmark not having full control over who is on Danish territory, and they are also opposed to the fact that Europe's borders are not properly secured. But here, as a politician, we must try to reverse this awareness, because that means that political decisions which increase Denmark's sovereignty over who is on Danish territory are popular decisions. Which politician doesn't want to make popular decisions? After all, we all have that in reality, but at the end of the day it is such that, although it is nice to make popular decisions when you are a politician, our current government does not want to go all the way. But I do not want to blame the government in too harsh terms, because we have to be honest, and the truth is that the government that sat before the elections did not want to do so either. All governments want to be popular, but there are some popular decisions that no government wants to make. A thorough clean-up in the asylum system and in the principles of control of Danish territory is a super popular decision that no one really wants to take after all. When neither the present nor the previous government cleaned up this dysfunctional asylum system, as many have also called it, it is because the benefits of not cleaning up have seemed to the governments in question to be greater than the disadvantages. I think this is due to a misunderstanding of what the disadvantages are, because the drawbacks of nobody making this popular decision are that we are getting a large number of unwanted and illegitimate social changes. We are getting massive pressure on civil rights and public order, but we are also getting a lot of pressure on the state's finances, and the disadvantages I think are far greater than the benefits of non-decisions, which are that we do not provoke Germany and the European Union. That is why I am glad that we are having this debate today. I welcome the proposal for adoption that we are part of. What I would like to conclude by calling for is for all parties to speak openly about the price of a joint popular decision, but that, when we have had the honest debate on what a popular decision costs, we will also start taking it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123449	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123451	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I just have one question for the introduction, because the rapporteur calls it teasing that the current government is criticized for saying one thing before the elections and saying another after the elections. I think that everything else should be fair to say that the previous government would not promise to introduce a new asylum system and that the current government chose to introduce a new asylum system and called it realistic, and that is where the criticism lies. The Danes are actually told that this is something we do; we are happy to take the lead if we cannot get the others with us; we consider that to be realistic. I guess it's a matter of blinding the voters about a decision that many would like to make, but which some might be more realistic about than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123552	I just feel like no one mentioned, and no one forgot that when you're a politician, it's very easy to get to say something that's easier said than done. I have heard a great many representatives of a great many parties do that over the years, and that is why I am putting a parenthesis on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123617	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund also has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123621	Thank you for your seriousness and for an interesting and different rapporteur speech. In that book, as Mr. Henrik Dahl had time to write between the extremes of the corona crisis so far, at least in a Danish context, the social construction of reality, which I highly recommend, is of course a lot about identity policy and, to a certain extent, also about some of the things that often relate to the debate on foreigners, so that one talks about the world as one would wish it to be, instead of what it actually looks like. These are sometimes the challenges we face here. In this way, I think that the subject is in some way connected with the next book, sir. Henrik Dahl plans to write and which I look forward to reading. In the spirit of the co-operation of the people's government, it would, of course, follow on from Mr. Henrik Dahl's thoughts are a natural and healthy consequence if, for example, the big parties who had sympathy for the thoughts of such a reception centre, rather than talking down the idea that they themselves have actually spoken warmly in the past with, among others. Austria, so perhaps its MEPs and sister parties activated around Europe and spoke up the idea and tried to contribute constructively, so it was together that we could lift this idea. But that was more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123735	I would also like to make a comment myself and, of course, I would also like to sign for the nice words. But I think we actually agree on this point. What I am calling for is, in fact, a little more openness about why we come into the situation of putting forward proposals for something that is easier said than done. That is because there are some drawbacks, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, and you might put a little bit of what the disadvantages are, for example. that you encounter a lot of resistance in the European Union and that it is therefore difficult to do something about these things. But of course it is a huge problem when the vast majority of the population would like something to be done about it. It may well be that it is because one has not been honest about what the price of doing something is, but then I think that as politicians we could consider telling a little about what it costs to make a popular decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123828	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund? No. Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor, and I understand that the Prime Minister is not asking for the floor, but is asking for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217123847	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate. Let me try to start from behind with mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. First of all, I look forward as always to your next book, and thank you for flying a little up the helicopter. I really think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is able to put the finger on something important, not just for this debate, but for our people's rule: that our society sometimes faces challenges that are complex and require cooperation and confidentiality in the Folketing and between the Folketing and the government. I myself believe that a new asylum policy is approaching day by day because it is becoming increasingly obvious that the existing asylum system is unsustainable. I am also quite convinced, as far as the various ideas that exist in Europe at the moment are concerned, that no one has yet invented the deep plate. We're going to have to be inspired by each other across national borders, and you can't make a master plan from A to Z and then just go through it and set a date for when we open a reception center. Denmark will also be confronted in dialogues with other countries with some questions about what we will do in return, and perhaps also some counter-requisites. Some of the countries that act as transit countries on the routes are also enormously plagued by irregular migration. After all, it is in their countries that they are building up huge trafficking industries. It is not for the benefit of a country that a young man can earn more from working as a smuggler than in the established economy. We must also have common interests with some of the countries on transit routes. After all, the common interest must have been cultivated and brought about a common recognition of. We cannot come as a European country and pull something over the head of a country outside Europe. We must also understand that they also have some wishes. These may be wishes that have foreign policy implications, diplomatic consequences, for Denmark, and these may also be economic consequences. That is why I believe that, if we succeed in establishing a real dialogue with a third country to open a reception centre with them, we, as a government, will also need a confidential dialogue with the Folketing. I am perhaps also approaching a comment on some of what Mrs Pernille Vermund says. Because as a government we have an interest in being as engaging as possible in a way that does not shoot ourselves in the foot and close doors to ourselves in our efforts to move asylum procedures out of Europe. That is why I was also open at the consultation in question both that I think things are going better than I had dared to hope for, but also that there are challenges, that it is not just as I said in my speech, to convince a third country to help solve some problems that exist in Europe. They also have historical experience that we may not always have a look at the challenges that have been seen from, for example. an African perspective. So it is also just in this difficult discussion an appeal to try not to take things out of context and to try to have confidence that we are working very seriously in trying to put this in place. It is not easy and we would very much like to have a confidential dialogue with the parties of the Folketing as far as possible. However, we also need to make sure that we do not shoot ourselves in the foot and slam some doors in the head because we are talking in a domestic political debate. That is the balance we are trying to strike in the government. Perhaps I will say that a little in the wake of some of what the Conservatives' rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth, says. He says he will hold the government to what it has promised, and let me say thank you for that both a little polemical, but also quite real. A country needs a well-functioning and good government, it gives itself. Sometimes I think that one overlooks the fact that a country also needs a good and well-functioning opposition, and we have no problem with being blown up in the back with demands to implement the government's own policy at all. On the contrary, I would say that this is actually the best opposition a government can possibly imagine. Finally, keep us in our ears, because apart from the fact that this is something on which the Social Democracy has been elected, we also sincerely believe that it is the best thing for Denmark and for Europe that there will be a new asylum policy. That is why I have a follow-up comment to make to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti, who wants action to follow the attitude. I agree, completely agree. I can still remember to this day that I was standing with a bunch of socialist roses in front of Bilka in Ishøj and handing them out and seeing the faces of passersby in the days when people went on the highways. It was the experience of loss of control that I saw, and in Denmark it was nothing against what it was like in our neighbouring countries. People who walked here came and asked, 'Tell me, can you really go on the highways?' Don't people have to pay a ticket to drive on DSB's train? Wasn't it something about them being accommodated at Lolland where the ferries went? Well, can they just decide for themselves if they want to go to Sweden? It was actually not so many days in Denmark, but I felt that way myself and I could see it in the face of those people: It was the feeling of control loss. Have we completely lost control of who comes to our country and under what rules? Is it the Danish legislation that applies, or are you just walking on the motorways? That loss of control is poisonous for our society, and therefore attitude must be followed by action. It is about reducing the number of asylum seekers. It succeeded before the elections, because there was a government also with the support of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party who also adopted difficult legislation, which has been important, I would argue, for the asylum number. It has also succeeded since the elections, and now the corona brings down the number of asylums even further. It is also about securing the external borders, which were more than just porous then in 2015 and in 2016. I also think that we have taken initiatives in this regard, including those of the current government. We are backing up, for example. the Greeks up in their work of enforcing their borders. When Mr. Mads Fuglede, in his rapporteur's speech, says that the Left hopes that the government will recognise that the debate on a reception centre is a theoretical debate, so I would say: no, we will not. For us, a better asylum system is not a theoretical debate; it has to be more; it also has to be a reality. Since we are working on this to be a reality, I also have to say to the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard, that if we are clearly committed to achieving this at EU level, then we are making it unnecessarily difficult for ourselves. Fortunately, there are more sensible measures on the table in Brussels or at present it is on a video screen. It is acting, for example. on better screening at external borders, on enhanced cooperation on repatriations, on closer cooperation between countries on routes. However, my own assessment is that if we wait for all 27 EU Member States to agree on a precise model for a reception centre, we will make it unnecessarily difficult for ourselves. We also need to be able to work with that, for example. may be Denmark in cooperation with other countries • or potentially Denmark alone. I would also like to say that, while we have been debating, the Institute for Human Rights has come up with a legal analysis of the government's proposals and they write: "It is not contrary to international law to set up reception centres for asylum seekers in third countries, but Denmark still has the responsibility for human rights. And it is in the direction of something of the same that the government's own lawyers have come up with. So we're only happy about that. But that also means that law does not stand in the way of our ambitions. These were some ideas with which the Social Democratic Party has met before the elections and which the government has also met after the elections. And if both the government's lawyers and the Institute of Human Rights reach this conclusion, at least I am reasonably well-convenient. And that is why I would also like to say to the Enhedslisten, who says that Denmark has committed itself to helping refugees because we have acceded to the Refugee Convention: I agree. But let us ask ourselves the question: How do we really help most people? I would venture to say that the more people who say asylum on the Danish-German border, the less money we actually have to help refugees; the fewer refugees we can help. Half of those who seek are refused. It's $300,000. a year to have one person accommodated. That is to say, every time someone seeks asylum, it is DKK 150,000 that is spent on people who do not need protection. The government has increased the part of development aid that goes to help closer to the conflicts, and we have ambitions to go even further. So what is really the most humanistic thing? Finally, I would like to say something to the SF, which is particularly concerned with the children's situation and therefore wants children not to be included in the thoughts of a reception centre. And I would like to start by saying: thank you to the SF for the always constructive and qualified speeches in the debate. However, allow me to challenge a little. Because if we succeed in moving asylum procedures out of Europe, who would go to Denmark and seek asylum? Why move through seven safe borders to be flown back to a third country and have your asylum application examined? None But if we say precisely that the children will not be included in the reception centre thought, then we can be absolutely sure that they will be in the boats. So I do not really regard the government's ideas of a reception centre as a non-human policy on the contrary. It is precisely in the interests of children that we must insist that they should also be included in reception centres. Yeah, that's what I wanted to say. And so much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217124912	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217124916	Thank you. Is it not dishonest to make electoral promises about something that cannot be done and that we know cannot be done? Is that not what is really called electoral deception? For it may well be that the Minister now adds that in reality there was a whole lot of small things downstairs, namely that everyone in the European Union must agree, and there must be 10,000 conditions in place, but that was not done much in the election campaign. So is it not electoral deception that the Social Democrats have carried out in the last election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217124959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125001	No, I don't think so. I do not think it is electoral deception. And there was nothing small about the fact that all EU countries must agree. On the contrary, it said that we will not commit ourselves to the fact that all EU countries should agree. We will realise it, even if it does not happen at EU level, for example. This is done in cooperation with other European countries or, if necessary, as is also the case, alone. Voter deception is when you go to the polls on something and then just pack it down in the drawers afterwards and are completely, whistling indifferent. It is not electoral deception when you go to elections on something, move into the offices and say to the ministries: this is what we have chosen, and we have to work a certain part of our body out of our pants in order to achieve it. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125046	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125048	But there is nothing behind the words, and I find that disappointing. I also find it disappointing that the Prime Minister is not going on the floor now, defending that position and explaining what it is that you cannot put more force behind what was said in the election campaign, which means that some people are left with the feeling that you did it to get votes and you succeeded in doing so, but when it comes to the matter, not enough is being done to get it implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125120	Perhaps I do not think it is quite fair to say that no force has been put behind it. I know that the Prime Minister himself has talked to colleagues about this and is deeply concerned about it. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the two ministers who are, the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are spending resources on it, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration are spending resources on it. We are working together across ministries to get as far as possible as possible as quickly as possible. It is true that... no, let me take it in a follow-up question. Time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125158	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125202	Thank you to the Minister for some, I think, good remarks that this is not easy; it is not something you just do in an instant; it is difficult, it is complicated and it takes a long time. And that is what I think the Minister dresses up to say. I believe that the reason why we are having the debate today is that there were not so many of us who could find the reservations in the Social Democratic Elections before the elections, which were just called Justice and Realism. So with the reservations and difficulties that the Minister is now explaining, I would just like to hear: does the government believe that it is realistic to have this election promise fulfilled during the current parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125249	We only work with realistic policy, otherwise it is a waste of power. We are working on things that we believe can be implemented realistically. And when we believe that the asylum procedure should be moved out of Europe for the reasons that I have explained in my speech, both at the beginning and here at the end of the debate, we believe that this is the right thing to do politically. Now I myself was one of those who spoke more than once before the election on this very electoral promise, and that is why I know that we have said all the way through: this is the right policy. This will improve the situation both for refugees and for Denmark. It takes two to tango, and that means that we must have cooperation with at least one country outside Europe, and we will make every effort to achieve that. And that's exactly what we're working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125339	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125340	It was a long answer which then was not an answer to the question whether the Minister considers it realistic to implement during the current parliamentary term. But instead of just asking the question again because then I'll probably just get the same answer... let me try to rephrase it: would the Minister think that it is a defeat for the government if this proposal is not implemented during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125405	I think it is a defeat for Denmark, every day the current asylum system continues. When we have come to the polls to implement a policy, it is, of course, because we have the ambition to do so during this parliamentary term and not in 2032. The greatest defeat for the government would be if we overturned and there came a bourgeois government and that everything we had set in motion was abandoned because it was perceived by the bourgeois side that it was not realistic. So I really have a hope for seven-nine-three!
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125448	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125451	Thank you. I just have one question to answer: in the Minister's comment on the SF, the Minister said that the Minister does not expect that there will be as many people as there will be almost no spontaneous asylum seekers to Denmark if we set up a reception centre outside Europe. That, of course, is also our hope. But then I have some doubts as to whether the reception centre which the Social Democracy and now the government want to establish and also actively, we can understand, work for, is a reception centre where asylum seekers should be able to receive directly at the centre, or whether asylum seekers should seek asylum on Danish soil. Is this a reception center where you can search from embassies and consulates in Middle Eastern countries, or what's the idea behind this reception center?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125542	I think I should start by apologizing. Now we have been debating this for two hours and we have not actually explained exactly what the proposal is about. It is absolutely crucial that you should not be able to go to the reception centre and knock on the door and seek asylum, because then we will shoot ourselves in the foot, just as we have closed off embassy applications. You can't go to the Danish embassy in Cairo and say, "Asyl." If that were the case, Denmark would have major problems. So you shouldn't be able to apply for asylum at the reception center. The idea is to come to Denmark, seek asylum, have the first preliminary interview, be moved to the reception centre, and the asylum application will be examined. To the extent that they do not need asylum, they will have to be expelled from there and, to the extent that they need asylum, they will need local protection. Everyone can say for himself that the country that places land on a reception centre will, of course, in some way demand compensatory measures. That is why I already give notice that, when we hopefully get this far, the government will need a confidential and honest conversation with the Folketing. And that's when we say we're ready to go a long way to make this happen. It must not be small sums of money that make it impossible for us to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125651	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125653	But that also means that the negotiations you have with third countries must be made easier, because if that is right and I really think it is ■ the prospect that if you come to Denmark through several safe countries and seek asylum, you will be sent to a reception centre in a third country will mean that fewer people are seeking asylum here, it must also mean that the burden that will be placed on the country that is going to lay land for this reception centre is much less than the burden that we are experiencing in Denmark today. I hope this in itself, and it is really constructive that the government should make it clear to the countries with which it is engaged, that the number of asylum seekers who would have to be addressed in a reception centre is infinitely small, because the objective is precisely that we can strengthen our efforts where people are based in the neighbourhood, where we can help more people for the money we spend and still take care of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125758	Well, I am glad that Mrs Pernille Vermund comes to exactly the same conclusions as the government does, namely that if a reception centre is first established, the Danish asylum number will crash pretty quickly. That is why the strain on the cooperation country we hope will be established will not be very great. There is a natural scepticism in countries outside Europe about whether all of this is just European talk, as it used to be, or whether there is action behind it. That is why we are trying to establish cooperation with Tunisia, Rwanda and with other countries where we show in practice that this is not just talk. Resources, money and material are involved, because we would like to show at the outset that we are aware that they are facing a huge migration challenge. It's very, very big. Of course, we hope that, out of this cooperation, we can show that we are a credible partner and that we want to spend resources on this. And when we come up with our thoughts about a reception centre, it is not just some Europeans flying by, there are 48 hours, there are some problems and flying back home, but then it is to start working together to deal with migration, and if they are to put land to a reception centre, of course something must also follow the other way. We would like to start by saying that here is, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. aid to deal with the borders of neighbouring countries, like that, for example. has succeeded with Tunisia, or here may be help to deal with the resettlement of migrants and asylum seekers, as we have done in Rwanda. We hope that it is the stepping stone in the right direction. That is what our strategy is, and that is also why I did a little bit of talking about these development projects in my speech, because I think that is also proof that we are not just sitting on our hands. We're on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217125943	I was somewhat puzzled when I heard that the SF believed that not everyone would necessarily have to go to the reception centre outside Europe if asylum was sought in Denmark. Can the Minister guarantee that anyone seeking asylum in Denmark in this theoretical reception centre will also be treated there so that we do not end up in a situation where children will be used as a currency in coming to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130027	At any rate, I can guarantee that that is our ambition. But I thought about it myself. What if a country says: We really want to put land to a reception centre, but we would like to have it tested now to a limited extent, so it will be max. x number of people and only people who have followed this particular route on their asylum route to Denmark? Then we should not sit back and say: No, that is all or nothing. Then I think it's just about establishing cooperation as soon as possible. That is why I do not want to close doors, but try to be as flexible as possible. But I fully agree with what I can sense lies below Mr. Mads Fuglerde's question, namely to be careful not to exclude certain groups, because then precisely those groups will certainly not have the incentive to go to Denmark removed. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130120	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130121	I think you have to create as complete a reception centre as possible and not something that is sequential. But it is not certain that we will ever have that debate in the real world. But I think we need to take it in, especially when we take into account the situations we have in the Greek archipelago, with children in refugee camps, etc. We must not create incentives that mean that more children will be used on the routes of traffickers and that there will be incentives to have children on them. That is all else exactly what will happen if you know that if you take your child to Europe, you can short-circuit the process of being sent to a reception centre outside Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130207	That is also my position completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130214	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130218	Thank you, President, and thank you for an excellent debate. What I would like to hear from the Minister for Integration was the suggestion I made in my speech on the platform. If we really want to do the same, in other words remove the foundations for the inhumane activities of traffickers and so on, and ensure that people are in the cultural circle that is theirs as far as possible, would one step on the way not to say that we will not succeed in reaching an agreement with a third country before the next parliamentary elections, then Denmark will already announce in advance that we will terminate the Refugee Convention? This will, of course, remove the legal basis for seeking asylum in Denmark at all. It is not such a God-given or natural right that asylum can be sought. It's because it comes from the law. That is why it would be natural for us to say in this direction that we are really putting pressure on this and simply terminating the refugee convention so that we cannot seek asylum in Denmark. It'll make it desertless for all these lucky knights and human smugglers, and so on. to bring people to Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130321	I would like to start by saying that there is nothing in the Refugee Convention that prevents the establishment of a reception centre and the implementation of the asylum policy of the government. If we do not just reject people on the Danish-German border who say asylum, it is not really so much for the sake of the refugee convention, then it is more for the sake of the Dublin Regulation. Because we can reject safe third countries and Germany is a safe third country. However, the Dublin Regulation says that if the first country in which they seek asylum is Denmark and there are other conditions too, then we have to carry out the asylum procedure. I could also hear Mrs Pernille Vermund talking a little about these issues in her rapporteur's speech, but I believe in the bottom line that it is in Denmark's interest that we should be included in the Dublin Regulation, because anything else equal if we were not, anyone who had applied in other European countries and made their fingerprints and received a refusal or just was in the asylum procedure would be able to go to Denmark and look again. But now we have the opportunity to continue to negotiate Dublin, that is to say. sending people registered in the asylum system in other European countries to other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130429	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130430	Yes, I fully agree that the Dublin Regulation is an excellent one at the moment. But if the solution is that we want to say quite clearly that we should not come to Denmark at all, that we should not be on Danish territory at all to seek asylum, that this is something that has to be done far from here, then it would be very logical to say that as a nation we are terminating the refugee convention. That is why we are removing the legal basis for any request for asylum in Denmark. This means that we do not have to relate at all to whether people have been in Germany or Sweden or Austria or in Malta before they have come to Denmark, we can just say: House past you cannot apply for asylum in Denmark; we are working on another solution, but until then you have to go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130511	Okay, I get it. Firstly, I believe that it is not only the Refugee Convention that we have to deal with, but also the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore also our membership of the European Union. So we also need to take that into account in balancing what decision we are making. Secondly, we must surely also be in favour of people who need protection and cross a border with the neighbouring country and say asylum being entitled to an assessment of whether they need protection and, if they do, being protected. After all, it is an important step forward for civilisation and part of the lesson of the Second World War that we cannot reject people. I read in connection with having to write a book some time ago about ships lying in the Baltic Sea with Jews from Poland and Germany who could not find a port to call because people rejected them. And we're not gonna end up there again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130559	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will only take place tomorrow, Friday 18 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130615	The debate is open and welcome to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217130638	Thank you. This motion for a resolution tabled by the Left proposes that legislation be implemented before the end of this parliamentary year, which means that drug criminals will be deprived of Danish citizenship as far as possible when they have committed serious drug crimes, provided that the denial does not lead to statelessness. I myself think I will start somewhere else by mentioning that last year the government put forward a proposal to allow administratively to take the citizenship of people of dual nationality who have taken a course of action to seriously harm Denmark's vital interests if it does not lead to statelessness. The purpose of the amendment to the law was in particular to provide for the possibility of administratively depriving foreign fighters who are outside the country of their Danish nationality if they do not thereby become stateless. Currently, in ten cases, we have deprived foreign fighters of their Danish nationality on the basis of the rules, and none of those who have been deprived of citizenship have subsequently entered Denmark so far. I am very pleased that the new rules are being applied and, as you know, the government has proposed that the sunset clause for the rules on administrative withdrawal be lifted so that we can also make future use of the rules. As stated in the government's legislative programme, in the new year the government will make a bill that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark may be deprived of their Danish nationality in the context of the criminal proceedings by judgment, unless they thereby become stateless. We are bound by some international conventions, including the stateless Convention and the National Convention, which means that we cannot deny statelessness and that disqualification can only take place in certain specified cases. This applies, among other things, when a person has acted in a manner which seriously harms the vital interests of the State. But the opportunities for disqualification and within that framework, of course, we will take advantage of to take care of Denmark. I am therefore open to going a long way if possible within our international obligations. That is precisely why, in the new year, we intend to put forward a legislative proposal to the effect that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark may, in the context of the judgment of the criminal court, be deprived of their Danish right of birth unless they thereby become stateless. If it can also be established in this context that there is room for extending the possibility of denying drug criminals their Danish citizenship, we would like to be ready to take advantage of that opportunity on the part of the government. However, I can say that in any case it is not enough to deny citizenship that a person has committed serious crime. It comes from our obligations. Crime can therefore only lead to disqualification if crime has such a character and gravity that it can be said to be seriously detrimental to the vital interests of the State. Since we have not yet examined the question of the disqualification of the nationality of drug criminals, I cannot immediately say whether it will be possible to put forward a legislative proposal on this subject. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution which states that legislation on this subject must be implemented during the current parliamentary year. However, we are in agreement with the intention and, as I said, if there is an opportunity, we would like to be ready to take advantage of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131013	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131019	Thank you, Minister. We are standing here today because the Minister's own lawyers have just opened up a new political leeway in which it is possible to deprive those who commit serious crime of citizenship if they have dual nationality and if the crime they commit is detrimental to the vital interests of the state. This can be done in the field of gangs, and we will then be able to do so in other areas where crime is so serious that it is precisely to the detriment of the vital interests of the state, and I am glad that the Minister says that we are open to looking at it. But could we not allow the rhetoric to be replaced by action and say that we are open to looking at it and that we are also voting in favour of this proposal, to ensure that in a year's time we will not have the same debate as we have just spent a few hours on, with some reception centres where a whole lot of rhetoric is happening, but nothing compared to action? After all, the whole discussion can be avoided by simply stating that the government supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131121	We cannot support the proposal for the simple reason that we have not yet legally examined the issue of the disqualification of the citizenship of drug criminals. It is true that we have a legislative proposal on the road to gang crime, and it in itself took more than a few months to get the drill fully legal out before we could make that proposal, and for that reason we cannot support this resolution. Then there are just a few comments of a perhaps more general nature. One is that it is subject to the condition that people do not become stateless. That premise alone means that the amount of people who will be covered by it will be significantly lower. The second is that, although crime can be serious and even very serious and very serious, it is not enough in itself to deny citizenship. So it has to be for this serious damage to Denmark's vital interests. So I think it is important, for that reason and for that reason in relation to the people, to reconcile expectations, so that we should not expect anyone who is then convicted of serious crime in the future to be able to disenfranchise their citizenship and thus be able to be expelled. 'Cause it's got to be pretty rude.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131240	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131245	But no one has tried to deceive the public either, that it could be anyone who is committing serious crime, or anyone who is committing drug crime for that matter. After all, the proposal states very clearly that it must be within the scope that has now been opened up to, and the reservations that the Minister is reading, that it must be in accordance with the constitution and international conventions, and that only people who do not become stateless are included in the proposal. So if you will excuse me, the Minister, but I feel that it is such a bit that you are looking for an excuse because you have a principle that you will not support motions from blue opposition parties. If the Minister is really interested in this, why does the Minister not follow his otherwise fine speech with all the reservations by saying: that is why, of course, we support the proposal and look forward to putting it in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131326	However, I think I have just answered why we do not support the proposal. It has something to do with the fact that we are not legally there now, when we dare to say that the citizenship of drug criminals can be denied, and it must be in place before we can support it. So just for the sake of good order: I do not claim that anyone is trying to deceive the public that it would be a really large scale if such a proposal were adopted here. But now we have just finished another question debate, where I have been shot in the shoes, that we had not expected to agree well enough with the people about realism in establishing a reception centre. I would just like to say here, for the sake of good order, that both with the bill we have on gang criminals and this proposal, there will not be hundreds of people who will be denied their citizenship and will subsequently be able to be expelled. My best estimate is that it will be relatively few people. This should not prevent us from doing so, just as we should be glad that we have taken ten citizenships from foreign fighters. But it is just for the sake of good order to have an expectation vote that we are talking about relatively small groups of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131425	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131430	This debate is, after all, a very good picture of the poor constitution of democracy in Western Europe and in Denmark. We do not really hear a minister who thinks very much, but more explains what he thinks. So, all the time, as we heard in the previous debate, these international conventions are being pushed in front of the minister: people convicted of drugs would like to be deprived of their citizenship if we have to for the international conventions, and criminal foreigners would like to be sent out if we have to for the international conventions. I would like to ask: what does the Minister really mean? In other words, if we imagined a happy world where we were not bound by the citizenship convention and all these other things, what does the Minister really think would be reasonable? Does the Minister not think it would be reasonable for homicides to be deprived of their right of birth and convicted of terror and convicted of drugs? In other words, how far should we go before the Minister, quite apart from the international conventions, thinks it is right that people who have been given the gift of birth should be allowed to commit such crimes and then retain that gift?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131537	I would like to begin by saying that I actually see it as my duty in my ministerial speech to explain the law on the resolution, and then the parties themselves can relate to whether, for example, we are going to have to deal with it. Doesn't care that it conflicts with a particular convention, for example. the Convention on Civil Liberties. Then we can have a political discussion on the value of our accession to those conventions, and we in the government think it is important that we have acceded to those conventions. This also means that it is within the framework of the constitution and conventions that I am trying to find solutions, and the proposals we have put forward, both for foreign fighters and for what is going on around gang criminals, are then within the legal framework. Then I was asked about my position, and I would like to say that my position on, for example. Statelessness is that it is something that must be limited. This means that I am in favour of the fact that we, as a state, have a political objective, together with, I would guess, virtually all other states in the world, that we want to limit statelessness, and it also has to be part of the assessment of whether people can be deprived of citizenship, i.e. whether they become stateless or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131641	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131643	It is certainly not my impression that this is an ambition shared by most other countries in the world. On the contrary, it seems to me increasingly clear that the international conventions have become a chain that hangs around the necks of Western, open, successful societies, whereas that is something that dictatorial societies in the Middle East, which are creating the problems that create the migrations, etc., are looking at completely. That is why these conventions have become so huge a democratic problem. In other words, that we have a minister who is actually more concerned with preventing a global phenomenon such as more stateless persons than he is with ensuring that people who have received Danish citizenship as a gift but commit violent and violent crime, where there are Danish victims, lose that gift again, is really a sign of how, yes, the whole understanding of democracy is in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131733	But is it not also an essential part of the West's idea-historical heritage that each human being is unique? Some might even claim that it is part of the Christian heritage that each individual person has a value in himself and is unique, and is that not what the conventions are also an expression of? I fully admit that this also gives us a whole series of problems, and sometimes I also take my head over the consequences, because I think it is being interpreted too far. But the very essence and the idea that the West is also bound together by an understanding of man as unique and with inherent rights: is it not also important that we stand firm on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131825	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131828	Thank you. We think it is a fantastic proposal on the part of the Left. We believe, of course, that drug criminals or, for that matter, criminals should not have Danish citizenship at all in the first place. A proposal like this requires the government itself to formulate the law behind it. So why can the Minister not just say that this is supported, but, of course, within a legal framework that meets our international obligations and then assume it instead of simply rejecting it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131858	The short answer is that we think it is the wrong order. We would like to start by clarifying what the law is and what the economy is and then put forward the proposal and not, on the other hand, commit us to submit the proposal and then then find out whether it is legally feasible and what it will cost. Now I don't think the economy in this proposal is so important, but law is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131919	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131921	In any case, however, these many proposals on citizenship from the Left and from our side underline the importance of the fact that we are about to enter into negotiations. Now the Minister has said from the spring that negotiations will soon be called for. In the question debate we had the other day, we were told that negotiations would be called before Christmas. Can the Minister now begin to reveal when the negotiations will actually take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217131948	Yes, they will take place immediately after New Year's. Right now I'm working after we can start in early February. That is the current plan. I expect to send a letter to all the native-right rapporteurs in the Folketing either at the end of this week or at the beginning of next week. I have also promised that it will be before Christmas, and I wonder if it will be Christmas this year too. So I'm all for the clock ticking, and we're gonna get it off.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132016	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132018	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now the Minister is using a great deal of the human rights convention as an argument in relation to this, and I think that is both sensible and wise, also in view of what is stated in the understanding paper in relation to compliance with the human rights conventions. But I would just like to hear the Minister's opinion on the matter in substance. So, does the Minister really think it is right that people should be deprived of their citizenship for having committed crime? It is already quite difficult to obtain citizenship in Denmark. You have to have a pretty big connection. It's a long process to get through. Then it should also be the case that if you have acquired citizenship and then commit crime and are convicted, you get your punishment, and that is it. That's the way it is for other citizens. Is it not an unreasonable punishment to say that people are then deprived of their citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132119	I do not always agree with international conventions. That is the case with all the rules and all the legislation. I'm not in favour of VAR in football either, but there is anyway. But right here in the area of citizenship, I actually think that the basic structure is right: you have acquired citizenship and you are criminals against the law, so the society that you have citizenship punishes you, it gives itself or where you have committed crime, and that, as a rule, you do not run around denying people their citizenship. In fact, I think that the rule that, unless it seriously harms the vital interests of the state, is a good exception. I think it is and that it is combined with the fact that you do not become a stateless person. If, for example, you're gonna have to... have participated in terrorist activities, or if you really challenge the fundamental structures of society, and that is people with dual citizenship, then I think it is actually fair that a state can also reject and say: then we will deprive you of your citizenship and demonstrate you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132226	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132228	I am pleased that the Minister recognises the importance of the stateless Convention, but in relation to the interpretation of the vital interests of the state, we are talking about terrorism and other very serious crimes. Last week we discussed it in relation to gang crime. Now we're talking about it in relation to drug crime. Can the Minister not be concerned that we are on a slippery slope like this, where it can be said that harming the vital interests of the state can mean crime at all, because it is of course to the detriment of the vital interests of the state that crime is committed, but it is hardly in the context it is supposed to be in the context of the convention? So can the Minister not be worried about moving into that slippery lane?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132313	Is it the law, including the conventions, that is moving into a slippery path, or is it the development of the European pattern of crime that is on a slippery path? The type of gang crime we read about, for example. from Sweden, it may also be from other European countries... then makes me think that that type of crime with that intent and that gravity did not exist in the 1950s or 1960s. That is why I think it is quite reasonable for a political debate to begin on whether there are types of organised crime that are so serious at a quite different level than we have been used to, that it also challenges the basic structures of the state itself, and whether that type of crime could also mean the disqualification of citizenship. So I actually see more in the criminal environments. The law of the conventions is the same, but it is true that we have a new discussion. We wouldn't have had it in the 1960s, but it's because we didn't have that kind of crime in the 1960s.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132414	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132418	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think it is extremely wise for the Minister to say that it is not possible to assess this legally and that, of course, this is a prerequisite for us to discuss it at all. However, I have a question to which I hope the Minister can answer, even though it is unlikely that we will be able to get into the matter in such a short time as the Minister has had so far. After all, there is a proposal from the government that goes on gang crime and the removal of citizenship from gang crime. That is also mentioned in the comments here. Does the Minister have an assessment or an overview of the extent to which there may be a overlap between those who commit very serious drug crimes, which the Left in this proposal would like to deprive dual citizenship of, and those who commit very serious gang crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132522	The first part of the answer probably does not surprise the SF rapporteur. Of course, I do not have exact knowledge of that overlap, but of course I understand where the SF's rapporteur is going, namely whether you could not imagine that many of those who could be convicted of serious gang crime in the future are also somehow involved in drug crime. And at least I have that assumption myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132552	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132553	See, it's also a presumption I have. That is why it makes sense to me when the Minister says that we must discuss it here in accordance with the proposal already made by the government. That's SF, I'd say. Could it then be imagined that the Minister could provide some data on this on an ongoing basis up to the negotiations that we will be called for at some point in time so that we can clarify it? Because I think that would be important, not only for the Left, which has made this proposal, but also for the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132631	I would really like to hear from the Ministry of Justice to what extent they judge there is a connection between people convicted of organized gang crime and people convicted of drug abuse. So whether drugs have also been involved, for example. whether they have also been convicted under the law on drugs. How valid data there is, I dare not guarantee that right now, but I would at least like to start by examining the reservation that just because you have been convicted of gang crime and drugs does not necessarily mean that it will seriously harm Denmark's vital interests and will thus be covered by both this resolution and the bill we have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132713	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132714	Thank you so much. I'd just like to hear about something from the minister. Now the Minister himself mentioned the proposal on gang crime put forward by the Left, but which I can understand the government itself is making. Does the Minister have an estimate of how many it will actually hit when it has to apply both to serious gang crimes and to something that is a danger to Denmark's vital interests? How large a group is it really going to hit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132747	In any case, I can say very clearly that I do not have that estimate now. When we first deal with the bill we have announced, I will not be able to guarantee that we have a sober estimate of it either. In the end, this will depend on the courts, and I would be a little excited to see that there too: will the prosecution authorities raise these cases? Are there cases so strong they want to raise them? And what will the courts say? In this way, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right about this, we are moving a little on a new terrain where it is very difficult to assess how both the prosecution authorities and the courts will deal with the legislation we have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132822	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132824	Thank you for your answer. It's very nice to know whether this is really something that will have meaning or not when we discuss it. Could the Minister not consider looking back a little and examining whether there have been judgments in the past, so that if you adopted something like this you could make an estimate of whether they would have their Danish citizenship deprived? Could one not look at it a little in a historical context and see if there has actually been any precedent, that is, some history in this area, in relation to whether you would have been affected by this, so you have an idea of how many of these will be involved, if any?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217132906	When the proposal is first examined, I would also like to have an interest in being able to come so close to answering the questions mentioned by Mrs Mette Thiesen, so that it does not become too abstract. I think we share a common ambition there. However, it is probably difficult to take judgments already handed down, read them and then say what had happened if and if there had been another legislation, for the sole reason that it is the courts that pass the judgment. I think, in general terms, that we are talking about very few people, just as it was when we took citizenship from foreign fighters, but the political and practical importance may be quite important. I am, for example. quite glad that the ten people have not entered Denmark. One might ask: were the ten people worth all the crisis, the debate and the three treatments? Yeah, I actually think it was there. So even though this may not include so many, I think we should go in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133002	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. This brings the rapporteur to work, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133021	Thank you. This motion for a resolution proposes that drug criminals should, as far as possible, have withdrawn their Danish citizenship when drug crimes have been committed. Now I have been standing here a few times to discuss motions for resolutions on various forms of crime, which are intended to disenfranchise one's citizenship, and I will probably repeat myself. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we must make strict demands on people who have an ambition to obtain Danish citizenship, and there must be particularly strict demands on the criminal history and ability of these people to behave properly. For over the years we have given far too many citizenships to people who are deeply criminal and antisocial. I would like to thank the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution, because it is absolutely essential that we make very strict demands on people who want to be Danish citizens. As the authors of the motion for a resolution state, Danish citizenship is something special. As I have also said from the platform some of the past weeks, the Social Democratic Party would like to wait to discuss tightening the current conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship until we meet for negotiations on the other side of New Year. We believe that the current demands for Danish citizenship, which we made a tightening up of in 2018, are reasonable, but we would like to look at a possible tightening up of the requirements. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133141	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. There is a brief comment from the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133142	That is because the rapporteur used to make such long, fine speeches and this time it was a short speech, which is why I had not managed to get in. I regret that the rapporteur had to take a few steps down the stairs. We heard from the minister that you're willing to look at it and look at where the law is. When the Minister comes back with the answer that it can of course be done as the Minister in our optics has already said that it can well in his answer in relation to gang crime... will the Social Democratic Party then promise here today that they support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133237	I'll be brief, because I'll see you on the other side of New Year's for some negotiations, so I'll think that there's no need for any more. For there are some such proposals every year, and next time it may be about the withdrawal of citizenship from pyramid games. Well, there are some different things that I think we will hopefully be negotiating. In relation to the specific point, I would say that if it is possible, yes, the Minister has said that this is something to be looked at. But I assume that the Left also had the same attitude towards drug crime when it was in power, so there is probably a reason why it may be a little bit difficult to just take it away. But to the extent that this is possible in relation to particularly serious crime, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133303	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133304	The rapporteur is quite right, however, that the Left is in the same position. What has happened now is that this new political leeway has been achieved, and that is why I think we should just take advantage of it. And I actually heard the rapporteur say something in two parts. First, the rapporteur said that we were ready to look at it. Finally, I think I got a yes out of the rapporteur. So the rapporteur just needs to reply very briefly: when the Minister comes back and says that the law is in place, will the Social Democratic Party support the proposal yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133333	I assume that there are a number of other things for which we in the Left also want citizenship to be taken away. And it will be a complete package. But if you are acting against the vital interests of the state and if it is not contrary to the conventions or Danish legislation, then that is clearly an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133346	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133347	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Actually, I just want to hear about something. The rapporteur himself says that it is already very difficult to obtain citizenship. Very strict demands are being made, and the rapporteur then wants to tighten them up further. But it also has a consequence, because there is a large group of citizens living in Denmark who do not have citizenship. I just have to hear this: how does it make Denmark a safer and safer place, that we make the group of citizens who do not have the rights and duties that citizenship gives, greater, by depriving us of the citizenship of some people who have committed crime and who have to be punished for it? How does Denmark become a safer place for a larger group of people who do not have citizenship but who live and reside in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133439	Now we've had this debate sometimes, and I don't know, but there's probably a difference in what to say about how we see it as having a Danish citizenship, in terms of whether it's a special gift. But I also believe that there is something different in relation to when we think we should be able to take away Danish citizenship. And I also understood from some of the debates that Enhedslisten thought that it could also happen in special cases of serious terrorism, if I remember correctly. And that is something that can be called into question if it is reasonable. Well, can it be drug crime, can it be gross gang crime? But if it is to the detriment of the vital interests of the state, it may be possible, and there may then be a disagreement about that. But yes, we clearly see that this can be an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133516	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133518	If we were to settle for debates in here that we have not taken before, then we will probably limit the number of debates we have in this Chamber. But sometimes it's also a question of just testing where we stand. And there I have the impression that the Social Democrats are moving in relation to saying that harming the vital interests of the state can now also start to be about, for example. gang crime or drug crime. And it is, of course, a slip in relation to what one considers to be damaging the vital interests of the state. Because it is intended as in exceptional cases. Does the rapporteur not have the concern that this could mean that the group which is staying in Denmark without having the rights granted by citizenship will gradually become much larger?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133602	It would then depend on a legal assessment of what can be done. But I do not feel so sorry for the people who are granted Danish citizenship and commit serious drug crime or gang crime and bully entire areas of Denmark. But it must, of course, be in accordance with conventions and Danish legislation. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133620	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And since the rapporteur of the Left is the author of the motion, the rapporteur comes first to conclude the rapporteur's series. And that is why it has become the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party's Party's turn. And I tried with eye contact and I succeeded! Welcome to Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133640	Thank you for the floor, even if it comes a little earlier than expected. In the Danish People's Party we are in favour of depriving people of citizenship by crime. We hope that no criminal citizenship will be granted. We do not want that, and we also want people to be sent out once they have committed serious crime. That is why, of course, we welcome the fact that the Left is now tabling such a series of motions for resolutions. Because we have had one here 14 days ago... I think it was also about the fact that you should be able to disclaim citizenship for special crime. It was so gang crime, and we supported it too. We think it's fine that the Left wants to be harder in the felt on this area. That is why we must also say that it is a little disappointing that when we look at what the motion for a resolution actually says, it says that we have to do the things we would like to do here, taking into account Denmark's international obligations, and then we all know that it means that we cannot do anything at all. So that's why it's a completely empty blow in the air. We support the intention, but we also think it is a little grotesque that we continue to say that we want to be able to disqualify people from citizenship and send them out of the country, etc. And so on, when you know that, at the same time, if you want to rely on international conventions, that is not possible. So what is needed is, of course, a dispute with the international conventions, so that the countries really become independent and are actually able to pursue a sensible foreign policy. So much for the harshness of the Left. As I said, the last time we had this proposal, it's like a lion roaring loudly, but turns out to be a chicken. What we see as the solution is a dispute with international conventions and until such time as it can be decided that citizenship can be granted conditionally. It will not, of course, solve the problem of expulsion, but it will solve the problem of citizenship, so that it is said that when someone acquires citizenship, it is in any case conditional on the first ten years, so that, in the event of a person committing crime, he can be deprived of it. We support the resolution, but we will also say that this will not make a difference, unfortunately. Because as long as there is no dispute with the international conventions, it will not move anything. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133943	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And so welcome to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217133957	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of citizenship from serious drug crime. There are two points to be made. Firstly, some Convention considerations and then considerations on possible risk of damages before the Court of Human Rights. The Convention takes account of the question of whether drug crime can be a threat to the security of the state, in so far as it is in that case that citizenship can be deprived. General crime does not upset the security of the state, and we understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Minister have expressed their intention to make a similar proposal to amend the law on citizenship so that persons convicted of serious gang crimes may be deprived of their Danish right of birth by judgment unless they become stateless. And that will then be, we must understand, in cases where serious gang crimes are considered to be seriously detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. However, since serious crime is not to be regarded as treason from the convention, the area of this motion for a resolution will, to that extent, be infinitely small. In other words, the proposal is a little like saying that if hooliganism is terrorism, then citizenship can be deprived. But if the Left or the government makes such a rule of law, then it does not mean that hooliganism is terrorism. With regard to the recitals on the Court of Human Rights, it is in this context that it makes really poor sense for the Radical Left to implement legislation which would result in compensation being paid to drug criminals. To sum up, the Radical Left is opposed to the motion for a resolution and reminds us that until now it has been felt politically that it is not possible to do so and that, in terms of the convention, it has been thought that serious crime is not a threat to the security of the state either. It is therefore not legally possible to equate ordinary crime with terrorism, since this is what the Convention on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs exhaustively mentions, in relation to the situations in which a State's legislation may provide for the forfeiture of citizenship, that the revocation can only be considered in the event of a course of action which seriously prejudices the vital interests of a State. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134303	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134306	Thank you. It is because I find it difficult to understand the arguments of the Radical Left, and I would therefore like it to be clarified. On the one hand, the Radical Left is saying things as if they were legal facts, for example. That is not what the rapporteur knows. Otherwise, perhaps the rapporteur can draw my attention to where the rapporteur has that assurance from. On the other hand, Radicals say that the proposal is not good because the target group it will hit is too small. I am actually just unsure from which of the two reasons it is that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal. Is it something about some international conventions that are considered to have not been complied with, or is it because the proposal does not have enough effect? Where does the Radical Left really stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134352	Thank you very much for the question. There were several issues raised by the rapporteur, and I will start from the end. The latest ruling we have from the Court of Human Rights on forced fixation is a very good example. If it is the case that Denmark violates the conventions, you can risk, and it happened in this case, that you incur compensation. In this case, I think it was DKK 75,000, and of course Denmark and the state must pay when it is that we violate the conventions and make serious interventions in violation of the conventions on human beings. This will be the same in this case: if we end up with a state to withdraw citizenship and then we lose a case at the Court of Human Rights, we will be able to pay accordingly, and because the rapporteur's decision is about drug criminals, the consequence will be that we will actually pay compensation to drug criminals, and I would strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134525	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134526	I agree with the rapporteur on this point, but the rapporteur invents something, and then the rapporteur says that because there has been a verdict on forced fixation, it is not possible to do so here. So, has the rapporteur even read the proposal? Has the rapporteur read the comments which state that this should be done within the framework of the international conventions? So I am just wondering why the Radical Left is inventing a fictional reason for opposing this proposal instead of just standing by what the Radical Left used to say: that you do not want to tighten up the immigration policy. Why do radicals need to argue against something that is not in the proposal, instead of just tone clean flags and saying that they do not want to tighten the immigration policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134610	Thank you very much for the question. Yes, the rapporteur is talking about something that is very important, namely that the resolution hits a fictitious area which does not exist, understood in the sense that although the Left has tabled this resolution that serious drug crime should be regarded as terrorism, it does not mean that serious drug crime is considered terrorism or a threat to the security of the state. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the inclusion of the word hooligans in the resolution does not mean that hooliganism has been regarded as terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134701	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217134707	Thank you. When I listen to the debate in this Chamber, I hear it a little as if there are some different forms of crime mixed together. There is much talk about gang crime and the debate we had a few weeks ago about a similar proposal from the Left, and there is a natural reason for that, as I see it, and it is that there is probably a overlap without me being able to say for sure, but there is probably a overlap between those who commit very serious gang crimes and those who commit very serious drug crimes. It is also, as I see it, something that the Left assesses. In any case, it is stated in the comments that it is expected that it will not be a problem to get to it here, since it is possible to do so in connection with gang crime, and I interpret this slightly as saying that the Left actually believes that there is a group which has these two forms of crime as a common denominator. I think it is important that we have it examined and put it in place first, and that is why I think it is very wise for the Minister to say that we simply have to look at whether this is legally possible and in what way before we do anything. The fact that people are being deprived of their citizenship is not something we are just doing with a fingertips, which is why I really think it makes sense to take the discussion on the government's proposal to withdraw citizenship from very serious gang crimes. I think it is very natural to go along with each other. Then we have time to assess whether it is possible, we have time to assess what the overlap is and in the same sense, and it is very important for the SF to have certainty that this can be done within the conventions, and to have an assessment of how to ensure it, which we do not really have time for right now. That is why the SF cannot support this proposal. I understand that the Left is bringing it up. This is serious, but I think we should be very aware that depriving people of their citizenship is not something we are just doing. We need to be sure of that before we do it. That is why I think that the Left should actually listen to the Minister and then take this debate naturally on the basis of what the government has already proposed. I am also convinced that the Left will get good answers from that. So I don't see the reason for the rush.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135005	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135023	Thank you for that, President. I fully understand that there are many in this Chamber who believe that it should be even harder to obtain Danish citizenship than it is today. I think that we already have some extremely strict and very rigid rules in terms of obtaining citizenship, which also means that we have a large proportion of the population who live and live here and have permanent and legal residence, but who do not have the full civil rights. However, I do not think that anyone in this Chamber would say that it is easy to obtain citizenship, given the constraints that have been applied over the last 20 years. And so it is also the case that the citizens who acquire citizenship have gained a great deal of association with Denmark. There is an attachment which is so strong that it would probably also be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights if we were to deprive these citizens of their citizenship and then deport them to a country in which they may never have resided. We have seen several examples in the press that attempts have been made to expel persons who have committed repeated crimes and who have not been able to do so because their ties with Denmark are too strong. And so it is: we cannot export our problems. As a prosperous and resourceful country, we must be strong enough to be able to prevent crime and re-socialise the former convicted. Other easy solutions have no place in our society. We are also a constitutional state. We have a system for dealing with criminal offences. If you are suspected of having committed a crime, you can be investigated by the police, you can be tried by a judge, and if you are found guilty, yes, you get a conviction and a subsequent sentence. That is the way it should be in a constitutional state, that is to say, that it is the way it is, for all citizens. That is also what the Constitution says: that there is equality before the law, regardless of sexual orientation. No, that is not what it says in the constitution, but at least we have a principle that we should be treated equally, regardless of political beliefs, sexual orientation, social status and religious affiliation, and that, of course, should be the case, that is to say, that all people are equal before the law, and that is why it should also be the case that if you receive a penalty, you are sentenced to it in the courts, and once it has been endured, you are a citizen on an equal footing with everyone else again. Then we may have initiatives to resocialize and to decriminalize, but basically it should be the case that if you have a conviction and you have served it, you have equal rights again. If you commit seriously enough drug crime, it is already the case that you are being punished seriously. This is one of the most severe penalties we punish in Denmark. However, I do not think that we should introduce an additional penalty which would also deprive us of citizenship. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution, because we want to enforce the principle that everyone is equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135352	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135354	It doesn't come as the big surprise to me that Mr. Peder Hvelplund does not support this proposal. But I would really like to hear: Is there a type of crime that is so serious as Enhedslisten assesses is so damaging to Denmark's vital interests that Enhedslisten believes that people with dual citizenship should be able to lose their Danish citizenship? Is there such a crime? And if so, which one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135431	Now it is already the case today that it says that if you are to the detriment of the vital interests of the state, citizenship can be deprived. This applies, for example, if you have violated Chapter 12 or Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code, either in connection with terrorism or if you have acted against the interests of the State. I do not think that there is any reason to question the existence of this possibility. So, of course, it can be done. But that is an exception. And I think that what is happening with this motion for a resolution is that we are moving into a slippery slope here. It is complete, as we saw with the motion for a resolution on gang crime, where we slowly began to move the limit of what can then characterise such an exceptional case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135522	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135524	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund for the answer. It was really a bit of news for me. In fact, I was convinced that Enhedslisten did not think that there should be any type of crime that could lead to this. So instead of asking a question, I would just like to say that I am sorry that Enhedslisten does not support this proposal, but I am glad to have learned more about Enhedslisten's policy, and if it has always been Enhedslisten's policy and you haven't moved because of the discussions that have been going on lately, it's just great. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135553	There weren't so many questions in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135557	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135610	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. We think this is a very, very good proposal from the Left. We do not believe that drug criminals should at first have Danish citizenship, so we wholeheartedly support the comment, of course, that the legislation to be drafted must be within the framework of the constitution and our international obligations. And then we are glad to have heard from the Minister at last when we expect these negotiations on new citizenship rules to actually take place: February next year. This may coincide with the 1st anniversary of our Conservative proposal that criminals should not be able to acquire Danish citizenship at all. It was in Politiken at the end of February last year, so it is certainly not possible to accuse the government of haste. But we are glad that we have now come one step closer to actually being able to hold these negotiations. Perhaps it will also ease the pressure on the many motions for resolutions in this Chamber with proposals for citizenship, if we can get some new rules in place with some sensible tightenings that a wide range of parties in this Parliament can hopefully support. In any case, we support the proposal that we have here from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135730	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and I give the floor to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135732	After all, I am very pleased to hear that the Conservative People's Party wants to deprive citizenship of people who have committed serious drug crimes. We in the Danish People's Party do, of course, want to do so, but we recognise that this motion for a resolution from the Left will probably not change one of these in the current situation, because it is the case that the international conventions greatly prevent it. So when the Conservative People's Party says that the party wants to take part in removing citizenship from people who have committed drug crime, but that it should be within the conventions, will the rapporteur not recognise that this is not going to change a knot in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135827	I do not really believe and hope so; I am curious about the legal work of the Minister. I had also hoped that the Minister would take a positive view of the fact that it could be implemented; that is what we are doing. I agree that there may be people who do not have dual citizenship who cannot then have the Danish nationality removed. It is then a disagreement we have with the Danish People's Party, because if it is the case that you cannot have dual citizenship, which I think is the position of the Danish People's Party, then it is a little difficult to take it away from people. But there we just look at things differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135859	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135901	We do not believe that it is the international conventions that should determine which people have citizenship in Denmark, but the Conservative People's Party obviously believes so. The only right thing to do would be to make sure that the international conventions do not bind us in this area, so that we can actually disqualify people from their citizenship when they have committed serious drug crimes or other serious forms of crime, whether they have one, two, three, four or five citizenships. Surely that is the only right thing to do if we really want to protect the Danish population from crime. Does not the Conservative People's Party mean that too?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217135944	It is simply not true that we believe that international conventions should determine who should have Danish citizenship... it should be granted by law here in Parliament... and that is not what this proposal is about. It is a question of removing Danish citizenship from the law, and that is where we have a broad range, and I know that the Danish People's Party agrees with a number, if not all, of the proposals, and we are therefore taking them into account in the negotiations on new rules for Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140012	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140016	Thanks for the speech. Sir. Marcus Knuth has said a few times that Conservatives do not at all believe that if you have committed drug crime, you should have citizenship. And that sounds very clever, too, but can the rapporteur not confirm that there is no majority in this House in favour of it? In other words, it is true, both for the blue bloc and for the government, that no one wants to give citizenship to drug criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140038	Yes, it is true that the recent tightening-up also affects drug crime, but unfortunately it is the case that people who, for example, are involved. commit drug crime, and very often have committed other forms of crime. And that is why we believe that if it is the case that you have been sentenced to prison, then you should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship at all. I would venture to claim that a large proportion of those who have recently been convicted of drug abuse, and who hopefully will be affected by this good proposal from the Left, probably also had previous prison sentences for other things. And that is why we say that if it is the case that you cannot get Danish citizenship at all with a prison sentence, then at least some people do not end up in the situation that they first get it and then commit drug crime and then have it taken away again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140122	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140124	I understand that, even when we talk about the matter of having our citizenship taken, which we are also discussing now. However, it is true that there is a huge majority in here who, neither before nor after we have talked about this, has had a desire to give citizenship to people convicted of drug crime, whether they are very serious or even the smallest drug offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140146	That is correct, and that is why the group we believe should be extended to all those who have committed crimes that are serious enough to have a prison sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140157	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140214	I would like to start by saying that I think it is gratifying that there is a broad understanding in the bourgeois bloc that those who violate Denmark's laws seriously must have withdrawn Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, this is not true of the red bloc, because there are even some parties here who are working actively to make the destruction of our beautiful country greater, both culturally and economically. In New Citizens we believe that Danish citizenship is a gift that should be quite few for granted. I don't want that gift to be for criminal aliens. They must be shown consistently and after the first judgment. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be granted to those who do not support themselves. As a foreigner, you must be of benefit to Denmark. In New Citizens we do not think that Danish citizenship should belong to those who do not adapt to Denmark. The few foreigners who are to have Danish citizenship must be assimilated. And in New Citizens we do not think that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where we have statistical evidence to say that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. This motion for a resolution by the Left addresses a real problem, namely that of those who commit crime but who are not expelled because they have Danish citizenship. The problem with this proposal is not understanding the problem of criminal foreigners with Danish citizenship. The problem is that this proposal does not solve the problem. Unfortunately, it is another patchy solution; a patchy solution that sounds tough but which will hit very few, if any. I am going to ask the Ministry how many it will actually hit, and I look forward to getting the Ministry's assessment of this proposal and of the earlier on gang criminals. Indeed, we must be both a terrorist and a drug criminal, and we have tabled amendments to ensure that this applies, of course, to everyone, whether you become a stateless person or not. But of course we can make it much wider, and I would therefore very much like to extend my hand to the Left and to the whole bourgeois block. Let us now solve the problems from scratch instead of all these patch solutions. If you commit crime and get an unconditional sentence of liberty, you must, of course, be deprived of your Danish citizenship and be consistently expelled. Criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. We need a full asylum freeze. Foreigners must support themselves. And in New Citizens, we want to solve the immigration policy from scratch... no more patching solutions. And that is what a future bourgeois government must ensure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140520	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140532	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief. We support this proposal. For the sake of good order, I must say that our policy is, of course, that when there is a parliamentary majority for it, weed smoking should not be illegal. But as long as the laws of the country are as they are, of course we also believe that the laws must be observed. That is why we believe that the most important thing, of course, is that when the laws are as they are, we cannot put them out of effect by private initiative and say: I think this is an unfair law, so I will not abide by it. That is why, of course, we support the proposal anyway. There is nothing directly in the proposal about dual citizenship and the stateless Convention, but I know from other debates in the Parliamentary Assembly how much the Left is concerned about the stateless Convention, so I assume that it is, as it were, implicit in the proposal, and we are pleased about that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140636	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217140651	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you for the debate we have had here today. It has been about many things, so perhaps I should really start with the very basic reason why we have put forward this proposal. And that is that we perceive that serious drug crime is a major problem for Danish society. When we experience drug smugglers who are systematically and sometimes brutally smuggled large amounts of drugs into the country, or, for that matter, some who manufacture it here, it creates instability and insecurity throughout the kingdom. Now we are in a situation where this new political leeway has been created to crack down on people who commit serious and subversive crime and who have dual citizenship. We have been told by the Crown lawyers that both the constitution and the conventions make it possible to tighten the rules for the withdrawal of citizenship when people of dual nationality commit crimes which endanger the vital interests of the state. We think that is a good political margin for manoeuvre, and we think that should be taken advantage of. And since serious gang crimes can be dealt with, then, of course, it can also be done with serious drug crimes. Of course, only the type of crime that is detrimental to the vital interests of the state. That is why I can say to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that the motion tabled by the Left will not mean that if you are caught smoking hashish, citizenship will disappear. Because I think that you have to be extremely creative in legal terms to get a person to smoke hash. You have to not do that, because it is illegal to be detrimental to the vital interests of the state. So there I can at least reassure Mr. Henrik Dahl. What we have seen is that some of the criminals who commit this subversive crime and have dual citizenship are hiding behind the Danish passport when most of us really want to try to get them expelled. We therefore believe that with this proposal we can make a difference, not a big difference, but a small difference, a step in the right direction. A little is also right, and that is why we think the proposal is appropriate and that we should make use of the room for manoeuvre available. We welcome the support of the blue parties. We are a little sad that the Social Democrats do not want to vote in favour of this. We are really sorry about that. There was almost only one thing in the Minister's speech that I agreed with, and that was that VAR is destroying football, but this debate is not about that. Otherwise, I disagree with the Minister's conclusion that it is not a good idea to support the proposal; we naturally support it. I would like to say to the SF that I agree that there is a overlap between those who commit serious gang crimes and those who commit serious drug crimes. There will often be, and that is why I think it is only a good idea to give the courts even more opportunities to impose a severe penalty on them here, which would be to deprive them of their Danish citizenship. In fact, I want to provide the courts with a number of tools to impose stricter penalties for the subversive crime that we are unfortunately experiencing. Yes, and then perhaps I would just like to finish by saying that the radical rapporteur was told that we are trying to combat a fictitious problem. I do not think you should have moved around much in Danish society to see that serious drug crime is certainly not a fictitious problem. This is a very real problem which, with this proposal, we could have taken a small step towards resolving, but a majority of us do not want to do so, and I am rather sorry about that. I think it is a low-hanging fruit that a majority in the Folketing now actively chooses not to pick. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141037	Yes, that is a comment both to the Minister and to Mr. Morten Dahlin. It is such a service information, which is that we have an employee in our secretariat who is superligadommer. So you can come down to us in our secretariat, and then you can put your complaints there. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141056	Well, I'm aware of that, and I can also reveal it to Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, that I look very closely at who are superligads in Brøndby's fights. And the one time that the Liberal Alliance secretariat staff sentenced a Brøndby match, we actually won, so the employee has a track record of 100 percent, and that is why I am very pleased with Mr. Henrik Dahl's employee. I would also like to say that I regard him as an incredibly objective judge, and it is not to be understood in this way that I am trying to exert political pressure for certain judgments in Brøndby's struggles, even though I might in fact have been able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141124	I think perhaps the President will say that it is a little off the agenda. Morten Dahlin I'm sorry). Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the offer from the Liberal Alliance. And thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Now there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141205	The debate is open. And welcome to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141215	New citizens are proposing in the resolution here, among other things, that criminal foreigners should be deported consistently after the first sentence. New citizens write that the motion for a resolution does not require Denmark to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights, but that the proposal presupposes that by law it is decided that Denmark's international obligations, including the Convention on Human Rights, should be waived in cases of expulsion of criminal aliens. I would like to begin by saying that we agree with the proposers that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible. Of course, if you abuse your stay in Denmark to commit serious crime, you have nothing to do with continuing in Danish society. However, I would also like to stress that it is also important for us to live up to our international obligations. Denmark has an interest in a strong international legal order and we must actively engage in international cooperation. And within that framework, we are working hard to ensure that the authorities have the best conditions for expelling and sending out criminal foreigners. However, a proposal to introduce an unconditional rule on expulsion after the first sentence is not something that can be implemented within the framework of our international obligations. I have also recently answered that in a committee question. For this reason alone, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Moreover, expulsion is a priority for both the current and the then government, which is why the Social Democracy also supported the tightening of the expulsion rules, which were adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing in May 2018. Here, among other things, there were: In the light of the case law of the Court of Human Rights, guidelines were laid down as to when the Danish courts could in general expel criminal foreigners. We have thus ensured that the courts make the greatest possible use of the expulsion rules within the framework of their obligations. And as the rules are today, it is quite fundamental that if a criminal alien can be expelled from Denmark under the expulsion rules, then there must be expulsions unless it is certain that it will be contrary to Denmark's international obligations as it stands. It is a tool that I believe creates an incentive for individuals not to commit crime, and it is also a tool, it is my very clear view that, according to the recent case law of the courts, the tightening of the expulsion rules has had the desired effect. You look, for example. in the practice of the Supreme Court over recent years, there are clear indications that the trend is that more foreigners who have committed very serious and repeated crime are being expelled despite being born in Denmark or have come here as quite young people and therefore have a strong connection with the country. It is, of course, difficult to say exactly whether the trend is due to the tightening of the expulsion rules in recent years. As you know, criminal proceedings may be a long time in the process, and the courts make a concrete and individual assessment of the circumstances of each case, but I am glad that several people are actually expelled even if they have a strong connection with Denmark. And, as I have said, the rules in force are such that when the conditions for expulsion are in place, the courts will have to refrain from expelling only if the expulsion is certain to be contrary to the conventions. I would also like to point out another issue which I think is equally important not only for the government but also for society as a whole, and this is also an issue to which the proposers are referring, namely the enforcement of expulsions. Because we need to focus on enforcement, so that the aliens who are expelled are actually also sent out of the country. So it is not enough for a judge to knock on the table; we also need to get the person on the plane. In my opinion, the political debate should perhaps also be more interested in this, i.e. how we ensure that the expulsion is effectively and swiftly enforced. And, as I have already stated in a number of contexts, it is a high priority for the government to do so and to do so as soon as possible. Foreigners without legal residence, and this of course also applies to exiles, should not stay here. And when they, and others without legal residence, choose to oppose the decision of the authorities, money is being spent that we could have spent on core welfare or in the neighbourhood, and that is a problem that we will not ignore. Decisions by the Danish authorities must, of course, be complied with; that is a fundamental principle of a Community based on the rule of law. That is why, a few months ago, in August, we established a new administration, the Home Travel Board, which must be closer to the expelled criminals and rejected asylum seekers and get more people to go home. With the establishment of the Board, we are trying to streamline and strengthen the organisation of the work in order to focus more specifically on the field of deployment, and in this connection we have taken some work from Danish Refugee Aid. In addition, during the autumn, the government has presented a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring a more effective return journey for all persons without legal residence in Denmark, including the convicted criminals. And I have recently presented a proposal for a new travel law, which includes: ensure closer follow-up and faster consequences for those who are going home. One of the initiatives of that law will actually mean that criminals expelled foreigners who serve shorter sentences of up to 4 months may be released before the end of service if an opportunity arises to send the alien immediately thereafter. This will ensure that the authorities do not miss an opportunity to send a deported foreigner. In addition, we set aside resources to give the authorities enhanced opportunities to obtain relevant data from mobile phones to better identify people and thus send them home. The initiatives are based on the existing return effort and give the new management a little more muscle in the work of getting people on the plane. By the way, with the initiatives, we are picking up a number of the proposals that we presented in our foreign initiative from the Social Democratic Party back in 2018. I would like to stress that we are very concerned that convicted criminals should not be in Denmark and that they are actually returning home. We have therefore presented a number of initiatives which we look forward to discussing with the Danish Parliament on the other side of New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141804	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141808	Thank you. This summer I met with Cecilie, a Danish woman who has been beaten, attacked and raped by a Somali rapist. The Somali rapist was captured, and he was convicted. However, he was not expelled, despite the fact that it was the fourth sentence he received. At the opening debate I told you about Cecilie's history here in the Assembly Hall, and the reaction of the Prime Minister, who took it positively that day, was, and I quote: I have no understanding that a Danish hospitality is being exchanged for rape, gang crime or drug trafficking. So I'd like to expel more, too. Since then, we have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration a written question which we have received a written answer to about what has happened and what the government has done to follow up on this. Because one thing is what the Prime Minister says in a full-screen opening debate, another is what you actually do when you sit back in the offices. And the answer is that nothing has happened. I can also hear from the Minister that that is what is being proposed now. Was it just empty talk that came from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217141928	Now the questioner says that nothing has happened, but a small clarification could be that at least little has been presented, which is, moreover, being put forward tomorrow, which is about tightening up, among other things. the rules of expulsion and punishment for people in the context of social control. However, it is true that in this debate the Prime Minister expressed the Government's position, namely that we want the possibility of more people being expelled. That is why we will also be doing the legal legwork to clarify whether there are opportunities in existing legislation that are not fully exploited. Perhaps I can draw attention to an answer that I have either just sent or will soon send to Mrs Inger Løjberg from the Left, who among other things. has a proposal or idea to adjust a single element of the Aliens Act, which might strengthen the broadcasting work a little bit. In this way, there may be similar places where we can take an extra small step, and if there is that possibility, we are very interested in discussing it. But it is true that legal legwork is not yet complete.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142042	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142043	We're talking about rape victims. We are talking about a Prime Minister who, on the day of the overall press facing her, is saying that she also wants to show more and that she does not understand that criminals who commit rape are allowed to stay in the country. Now the Minister is saying: we are taking some small steps, we have not even begun them yet, but we are willing to take some small steps. Can the Minister not hear that there is really a long way to go from what is promised when the overall press is on to what is actually being done when the press has gone home and got their headlines?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142124	We are prepared to take the steps that it appears legally possible to take. A concrete step will be taken tomorrow with the submission of a legislative proposal which, I believe, will be dealt with first next week. However, we will also be looking into the possibility of taking several steps, and I would just like to refer to a single answer to a committee question which has either been sent or will very soon be forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, which perhaps has a small extra opportunity. But it will be something about really searching every corner of the rules to find out what we can do to make sure that people who, for example, if they are not Danish nationals, they are expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142203	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and that is how we proceed with the rapporteur for the parties. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142221	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, new citizens are proposing that criminal foreigners should be deported consistently after the first sentence. In the Social Democratic Party we would like to thank New Citizens for presenting this motion for a resolution. Indeed, we share the intention that criminal foreigners should, as a starting point, be shown to be consistent. A few days ago, I read about an assault on an 18-year-old young man from the Hunter's Prize who was pulled out of a bus and attacked by five immigrant boys in Roskilde. Five who attacked someone who was uncompromising and randomly chosen. It is reprehensible and it is a cowardly behaviour that does not belong in Denmark. Unfortunately, that is just one example out of many. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that foreigners who behave in this way should be expelled, if at all possible. They do not belong in Danish society. And despite the fact that in many ways the resolution tabled by New Citizens seems right and reasonable, we have the challenge that the Minister has also just explained that, on some lines, it collides with our international commitments, which I agree to often sounds like a bad excuse, but which I nevertheless believe is not entirely without benefit for a small country like Denmark in a large world with many more powerful nations. The migration from the Middle East or the MEAPT countries, as the Minister has begun to call them, and I also think he deserves praise for this, that is to say he has made a more precise record of the slightly more fluffy category of non-western immigrants, which we have often said is to a large extent a cross-border problem when it is those who are not going to work and those who are criminals and those who find it difficult to adapt culturally, we are talking about. That is why it also requires cross-border cooperation, and that is why international cooperation, conventions and obligations and reciprocity and relations are important. That is why we also need to be part of international cooperation, where we have the basis for solving some of the problems we face in the community. That cooperation is, for example, a matter of cooperation. also crucially in relation to the work currently being done by the government to try to set up reception centres outside Europe, which we discussed in the question debate earlier today. If we succeed in doing so, we can stop the influx of migrants from what the Minister calls MENAPT countries or, as others know as the Middle East, North Africa and the Middle East, Afghanistan, Iraq, etc. It's a little different what you choose to say. Dear child has many names. Nevertheless, we have to stop the influx of irregular migrants too, so we have to do something structurally new. That is what we talked about a long time earlier in the question debate. In the light of these considerations, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142522	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142527	Thank you. I have a great deal of respect for the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area, as the rapporteur knows, but I have to say that I am extremely sorry that, on a matter like this, it maintains that the consideration of international conventions is more important than the consideration of rape victims, for example. It is no more than an hour and a half since we stood in this Chamber and had a different debate, Mr President. Henrik Dahl mentioned the problem of cases where a large majority of the population wants some changes in our society, but a majority in the Folketing then blocks the changes because there are other considerations that weigh more heavily or because it is not convenient for politicians to make these decisions. Can the rapporteur accept that this is another situation in which what would probably be right and proper for a large part of the population, namely the expulsion of foreign rapists, is prevented by taking account of international conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142639	First of all, thank you for your kind words at first, and I would like to respond to them, but in addition to that, I think that I would be called comic Ali rather quickly than I would otherwise be, if I did not admit that it is a condition that there are regular examples of decisions that I think the vast majority of the electorate takes their heads over. If you are going to try to nuance it a little, I think it is also part of history that when a picture is sometimes drawn that no one is ever deported and that no one is ever deported, especially if they have been here for many years, then I do not think that is true. So, compared with recent years, it has been stated in a committee answer to Mrs Pernille Vermund that in the vicinity of two thousand foreigners a year, Denmark has been expelled from the courts, including many people who have been here since they were quite small.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142747	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142748	Thank you for your answer and I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that this is actually a problem and that there is a conflict here. But can the rapporteur then say what the rapporteur is explaining to the Danes, who are voting for the Social Democrats to a very large extent? How does the rapporteur explain and defend to the Danes that a Somali citizen who commits crime four times is not sentenced four times, the last time for rape, because there is a concern for conventions that have been written for a different time and for a different purpose than what they are serving today? What does the rapporteur say? How can you get away with it, and how can you defend it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142834-2	I don't want to get away with anything, I'd like to start by saying that. Because I am trying to be honest about the problems associated with this, which, on the one hand, are that we are bound by certain obligations and that, on the other hand, they sometimes collide with what would be common sense when concrete examples come up. Let me put it another way: we are working to tighten up these things. We come now with this bill where social control can lead to expulsion. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If minors are religious, it can lead to expulsion. We will soon have to deal with this in the Assembly Chamber, and we will not be finished. But I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142916	That's right. Speaking time has been spent. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217142936	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we agree with the proposers that it should have consequences when foreigners break Denmark's laws. We cannot accept that criminal foreigners are guilty of gang crime, driving madness, violence, etc., and that it will then have no consequences for their stay in Denmark. That is the process we must have followed more closely. We must go straight to the edge of the conventions of which we are co-signators, in order to ensure the expulsion of as many criminals as possible. That's the smartest lead. We must be an open society for those who want to be integrated, but much harder against those who commit crime and do not want to conform to Denmark's rules and laws. And it really hurts me when I hear the story that Mrs Pernille Vermund referred to today, but also earlier, namely that the perpetrator is still away in Denmark. We have to be able to get better when it comes to deporting these people. Therefore, the starting point must be that we must do everything we can to get rid of this problem by following the path that sharpens the fact that we are sending people out of the country who are being sentenced in this country. We can't use it for much when we look at that there are a lot of people who just get a permanent stay at an exit center at home and who never get out of Denmark. We ourselves, under the former government, sought to address this in the form of the Lindholm project. That has not been followed up. We look forward to finding something under the present government that has been promised. Let me make it clear that it is incredibly frustrating when families such as the family that has ravaged the Elsinian region for years do not respect Danish values and laws, but the intention of conventions is not that people should be allowed to behave intolerantly without any consideration whatsoever for other people and then be protected. The interpretation of expulsion rules in Denmark must not lead to criminal foreigners remaining in Denmark. Therefore, there are also places where we need to look at the interpretation of the expulsion rules. After all, we have adopted a host of laws in here that tighten up and tighten up on the expulsion of Denmark, so as to be amazed when a sentence is handed down. It is the clear position of the Left that the courts must show as much as possible, to the extent that this does not conflict with our international obligations. But we must go to the very end of the conventions in the fight to send foreign criminals home. This proposal extends beyond what the conventions can hold and therefore we cannot support it, even though we have every sympathy for what we want to achieve, namely that the worst criminal foreigners should no longer be resident in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143305	Too bad again that the conventions stand in the way of what the former rapporteur has called common sense, namely that serious crime must of course lead to expulsion, even without warning. This is, moreover, what the rapporteur's own President said this summer, which in fact gave me a little hope for the bourgeois recovery of Denmark. For what the rapporteur's President said in an interview this summer was: I believe that, as a starting point, when you have committed something rhyming with violence, weapons, drugs and rape, you must be thrown out of Denmark for the first time you commit it. There should be no warning, he said. Shortly after the opening debate, the Prime Minister, as I mentioned earlier, said that the Prime Minister would also like to show more. After all, we have seen in a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration that nothing has happened in that account by the government. Will the Left, when the Left is given power, ensure that, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen said this summer that violence, weapons, drugs and rape crimes committed by foreigners involve expulsion without warning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143417	We would like to ensure that if we could ensure that. We are convinced that we are best placed to be part of these conventions. But conventions are living texts that are interpreted by the time they are used in. I was at a very exciting meeting recently, where the fact that sometimes one has to be more willing to challenge the limits of the conventions was highlighted so that they can have a new meaning in the time they are now understood into. And, as I tried to point out many times in my speech, we are very unhappy that there are people who we believe should be deported who are then not deported. And we would very much like to go down that path where, in order to get rid of this, we understand the framework of the conventions without going out of them. Because we fully agree with New Citizens that it is a very big problem that you can commit very violent crime in Denmark and then not get a expulsion sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143518	But that means, of course, that the President of the Left is committing exactly the same error that we have criticized in the past, the President of the Socialist Party and now the Prime Minister, namely that one thing is being said very categorically, but that when one is held accountable for it one says that, yes, if we could, we would. That's cheating on the weight bowl. Let me follow up on what the rapporteur says. For the rapporteur says that the rapporteur would like to challenge it here within the framework of the conventions. What does the rapporteur think of a number of European countries which have also acceded to the conventions, but which are still showing more and more milder foundations than what we are showing in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143604-2	I am convinced that the conventions are very important, but I am also convinced that the conventions have created some sort of con vention scare at home which makes people afraid to re-understand what the conventions actually contain. I'm pretty sure these conventions have never been written for that purpose, unless they sent people home to safe death, that they should keep their hands on violent criminals. That is why I believe that there is a great deal to be said for us to be able to follow the path of a convention, but also to have a re-examination of what the conventions cover. I think it's the most dangerous path.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143641	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. No one else has wanted to make brief comments. So we warmly welcome Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217143651	Thank you very much. There has been an irresponsible immigration policy in Denmark for many years, and it is one of the major disasters in Danish history, and it will be remembered in this way. The parties in this Chamber have, for the most part, helped to conduct an irresponsible policy on foreigners. The parent party of the proposers has also done so, and the proposers themselves have voted for and acted for a party that has not done enough to stop immigration. Immigration has led to an increase in crime that we are dealing with today. That is why it is, of course, so sensible to ensure that people can be more deported from crime. The Danish People's Party has worked hard for its entire period in the Folketing. My colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have worked hard to bring more crimes into the category in which they can actually expel; they have worked to ensure that it was possible to obtain a conditional expulsion, which could then become a factual expulsion later on. What just happens is that there are a lot of things being stopped along the way. If you are sentenced to suspended expulsion, it will not be implemented into a deportment sentence. And in the end, you're being stopped by the conventions over and over again. So, of course, we fully agree with the proposers that this is what should be and what should happen. But instead of making such a nice parade proposal, we have worked on the real lines, that is, where you can make a difference, and actually got things moved a bit. And then we have to recognise that where we can really move and where we have to move is the dispute with the conventions. This is also something we have proposed over and over again, and we are also making more proposals on it. That is where the big difference can be made, because the other parties here in the Folketing are allowed to be stopped by the international conventions, and unfortunately it is very, very difficult to get more of this area moved. However, as I have said, something has happened in this area, and this is largely due to the Danish People's Party. Until we can put an end to international conventions, we believe that one of the solutions, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech on the previous case in this Chamber, is to introduce a provision that all foreigners are granted citizenship subject to condition, so that the first 10 or 15 years of Danish nationality are taken from you and you are expelled if you commit crime. But of course we support the proposal here and we will also support the logical extension of this proposal, which will be a dispute with the international conventions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144044	Thank you very much, Mrs Krarup. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144049	Thank you for that and thank you for your support. I have to mention, when the rapporteur himself talks about what has happened now, that we are in a situation where DF has had the opportunity of decisive influence over the last 20 years. DF sat in the last parliamentary term as the largest party in the Folketing with 37 seats. On the watch of the DF since 2001, the number of non-western immigrants has almost doubled, the number of non-western descendants has doubled. So does Mrs Marie Krarup really believe that DF has done what DF could and should with the great influence one has had the opportunity to use, but obviously has not used?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144133	Mrs Pernille Vermund knows this well, because there would have been far more people in the country if the Danish People's Party had not managed to close as much as possible. What is at stake, however, is the fact that Mrs Pernille Vermund's mother party has always ensured that, for example, The international conventions stood in the way of further closing down. So Mrs Pernille Vermund herself has created the problem that she is earning a lot of money today by pretending to solve. It's a good business, a nice business model, but not always so appealing. But we want a strict immigration policy, and we are happy to receive support, no matter what the reason is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144214	Thank you. In fact, I am not sorry to be an ordinary citizen who has seen these problems in my adult life at a time when I have a family, are self-employed, etc. I engage in politics and set up my own party and yes, I have not voted New Citizens all my life, because a new party was needed before there was a bourgeois party that would solve these problems from the bottom up and for which I could vote. But does this mean, as the rapporteur says, that all the Danes who voted for parties before you have seen how great these challenges are, but who have joined the struggle to solve them, really have to bear a guilt and a shame for not having engaged in politics or having formed their own party before today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144306	It is clear that we have helped to create these problems. There has been one party which has tried to resolve them from 1995 until today. It would really have been desirable from the beginning to avoid this situation, and then the Danish People's Party would have been given 90 seats, and then non-Western Muslim immigration would not have come to Denmark from 1995 onwards. There is no doubt about that. It is clear that you have a huge responsibility if you have voted for those parties that have not stopped immigration. After all, Mrs Pernille Vermund has been doing this for many years and has been working for parties that have not done so. So, as I said, the work that Mrs Pernille Vermund wants to do today has laid the foundations for herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144350	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144403	Thank you for the floor. If you commit a crime, you run the risk of being punished. That's the way it's supposed to be in a community of law. Depending on the offence, different penalties can be imposed, conditional or unconditional imprisonment and/or expulsion. The Radical Left believes that expulsion sentences can be a right and appropriate instrument of punishment when foreigners who do not have Danish citizenship commit a serious crime. But it must, of course, be proportional to the crime and in accordance with Denmark's international obligations. That is the framework within which the motion for a resolution does not stand. As the motion for a resolution shows, New Citizens also believes that it should not simply withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights, but only depart from it in the event of expulsions, that is to say that Denmark must comply with parts of the law, but not with the whole law. The attempt to minimize this is tantamount to saying that the burglar is in fact complying with the entire criminal code, but just derogating from the paragraph on theft, and so it is not acceptable. The Radical Left wants to abide by agreements that we are part of at international level and cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, and I would very much like to welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144550	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pernille Vermund, tabled by new citizens, is based on the problem of criminal foreigners who, despite several convictions, are still not expelled. I think there are many of us in the Chamber who can nod to the fact that we have an integration problem. Statistically, there is a high percentage of non-western immigrants who commit crime. I believe that where there is gravel in the machinery is the way we approach that question. SF was among some of the first parties in the Danish Parliament to take the initiative to tighten the slipstream of the Institute for Human Rights report that the Danish courts gave fewer expulsions of criminals than they could. We did so because we basically believe that at a time when so many people are in urgent need of resettlement in Denmark, it is only fair that the space does not go to people who turn their backs on the community. But of course this must be done within the framework of the minimum rights that we have decided that all people should benefit from, regardless of who they are and what mistakes they have made. New citizens' proposals include throwing on the floor some of our most precious legal bases: human rights. Admittedly, the remark writes something in the sense that don't worry, we don't volunteer out of them, we ignore them just in this case. However, with this approach to the legal basis, it is surprising that there has been any choice whatsoever to participate in politics on the grounds of the rule of law. Of course, we cannot simply override international commitments that we ourselves have signed, because it should not be suitable for us for a moment. No one will be surprised that I do not agree with the new citizens here. New citizens undoubtedly see human rights as a sort of straitjacket that stands in our way. That is where I think they are terribly wrong. Human rights free us from all forms of abuse by both governments and other entities by setting a minimum bar to what we may be subjected to under the law. With this controversy over, the SF is open to the possibility of examining whether we can show more than is the case today after they have committed serious crime. We are just thinking of doing so within the framework of the laws Denmark has signed to comply with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144816	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144820	Thank you for that and thank you for the end of the speech. After all, it is a hope, even if we do not want to solve the problems from scratch, to take a step in the right direction, and that is better than nothing. This brings me to the point that we have just been talking about the fact that we are going to be dealing with a proposal to tighten up the expulsion requirements for people who are subject to negative social controls, that is to say that negative social controls must result in more severe penalties and also the possibility of expulsion of foreigners if it is aliens who commit it. I know that this is an area with which the SF has great sympathy and commitment. But I also think when I tell the story of Cecilie, who has been raped by a Somali citizen in Denmark, who is then not subsequently expelled, despite having three convictions in advance, whether the rapporteur can see that if you can show more people for negative social control, but this man is not expelled to rape a woman after he has received three other sentences, then what is to be said is a discrepancy between what we punish with expulsion and what we do not punish with expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217144938	There may well be some disagreements. In terms of social control and how we work on it, it is our integration rapporteur, Mrs Halime Oguz, who is fully involved in that particular debate, and I also know that she is extremely concerned about this, and it is also something that concerns us very much in the Socialist People's Party. We are very concerned about the social control, which unfortunately there are too many, especially women, who are being subjected to in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145003	But let me ask more specifically: does the rapporteur believe that foreigners must be able to be expelled in order to exercise negative social control over others? And if that is a yes to the first question, does the rapporteur think that it should of course also mean that foreign men who rape in Denmark should be expelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145033	In relation to the first, I have to refer to our integration rapporteur, because I am not fully aware of what our position is in it. It is Mrs Halime Oguz who works with social control, but we also believe that it should be possible to deport people for rape. There is no doubt about that. But there are also some situations where human rights are being violated, and we believe that they should be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145055	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145058	Thank you so much. I am just getting a little curious now, when the rapporteur spends a lot of time talking about human rights to be respected, when criminals are then not to be deported: what about the human rights of the Danes? What about their right to live in a safe country, in peace with, for example, foreign serial criminals, rapists?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145124	After all, human rights are also the human rights of the Danes. There is nothing specifically called the human rights of the Danes. There is something called human rights, and we must respect them, and we cannot have the approach that they can be chosen on and off at will. Human rights are something universal and important for our society and for all people on this planet, and that is why we must respect the fundamental rights that we have signed up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145152	What the rapporteur is saying right now is that the rapporteur believes that the human rights of a Somali rapist is more important, that is to say that his human rights to be in Denmark instead of being consistently respected by the rapporteur instead of the rights of the Danes, and there we are just different. In New Citizens we are chosen by the Danes to look after Denmark and look after them. We're not elected to protect Somali rapists. On the contrary, they must go out consistently and after the first sentence. I do not understand why the rapporteur keeps sticking so much to this. If something stands in the way of a Somali rapist, for example, being deported, why would the Socialist People's Party stand in the way and stand on the side of the rapist instead of side with the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145241	We never stand on the side of any rapist. I think that is a very violent accusation. In addition, it is with human rights that if we choose them from on a regular basis, they are not worth the paper on which they are written, and it will also go beyond the Danes who benefit from human rights. Therefore, when you want to use them, you cannot opt for them at your discretion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145303	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin, and warmly welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145315	Thank you. As the authors of the motion for a resolution in New Citizens are kind enough to point out in this motion for a resolution, this is how I read from the comments to the proposal: the motion for a resolution does not require Denmark to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The motion for a resolution assumes that it is decided by law to derogate from Denmark's international obligations, including the ECHR, in cases of expulsion of criminal foreigners. Since even new citizens agree that the implementation of such a proposal would be directly contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, that is not something I need to spend more of my speaking time on here today. Once we have joined the Convention as a country, we have done so because we agree that human rights always apply, including to those we do not like. That is the essence of rights. It's that they apply to all of us. This is not something that can be chosen on or off at will, and it is therefore surprising that a democratic party chooses to make a proposal knowing that it may be contrary to fundamental rights. Human rights are not some random project about making life miserable or difficult for us in here at Christiansborg. Human rights are an absolute minimum limit on how the state can afford to treat people in our society. So it's a minimum, not a maximum. I've said it many times before: this isn't about going to the edge. The conventions are not something we go to the edge of; the conventions are something we stand on the shoulders of. One might ask a little polemical whether the next from New Citizens will be that we have to change the constitution, since it allows foreigners to have a Danish citizenship, or whether we should perhaps just completely remove the possibility that other people can acquire citizenship in Denmark. This proposal can also be made and then only decided to depart from the constitution. If new citizens think that we should withdraw from the international conventions which we as a country have acceded to, they must propose it instead of these strange derogations. I can then reveal that, and I do not think it will come as a secret either to Mrs Pernille Vermund or to Mrs Mette Thiesen, that the Enhedslisten will not support this proposal either, nor do we support this proposal. We believe that it is our courts that must measure the penalties on the basis of the parameters that we adopt here in the Folketing, but that consideration of the rights of both children and families must also be taken into account in that assessment. That is why we simply cannot support this motion for a resolution. I also doubt that it was Enhedslisten's support that New Citizens thought of when they wrote it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145608	There is a request for a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145613	Thank you. That is absolutely correct. I guess it wasn't Enhedslisten, we hadn't counted on full support either for this proposal. I have full respect for the fact that this is the policy of the rapporteur and that the Convention on Human Rights is something that should not just be challenged, but that it does not really matter what consequences it has, because we stand on our shoulders, says the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think about the cases in which decisions at the Court of Human Rights, because that is what we are talking about, will have the consequence that, for example, the Court of Human Rights has to deal with this matter? a man who, at the beginning of the '00s, is convicted of sexual assault on his children, is allowed to stay in Denmark? He is a foreign national, but he is allowed to stay in Denmark because of his family life, so that he can be with his children. Can the rapporteur not see that, in the case or in the case I mentioned with Cecilie and a Somali rapist who has four convictions ahead of his rape sentence, there are some areas where the precedent set by the court makes it very, very difficult to say that this is where we have to stand completely and stand on our shoulders? You end up in a situation where we say that all common sense says that this is something we have to test.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145747	The question is then whether Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens will also expel people who have been born and raised in Denmark, i.e. people who have been born for Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, there are many people in Denmark who commit crime. Crime is falling, but it's happening. Will they also be expelled? Perhaps to answer Mrs Pernille Vermund's question a little more clearly, it is quite clear that the examples mentioned by Mrs Pernille Vermund are not something that I want to stand up for. What I am defending from this platform is rights, and rights apply to all of us. So the answer is no; I am not going to stand here contradicting the judgments that have fallen from the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145826	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145827	We do not want to expel Danish citizens who were born in Denmark with a Danish citizenship. We do not want that precisely because of rights. After all, citizenship gives us the right, whatever we do, to stay in our own country if we were born with it and were born into Danish citizenship. It is exactly the same thing that applies to the Somali citizen as to us if we go to another country. I believe that even the rapporteur would find it perfectly natural and reasonable that, if the rapporteur were living in another country himself for a very long time and the rapporteur committed such serious crimes as either perpetuating his children or committing rape, with the verdict given to him, we should also receive a verdict on being expelled from the country. Would the rapporteur not say in his own case that this was probably a reasonable sanction, namely that I must return to my home country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145925	This is the most hypothetical situation I have ever heard of. I have never put myself in a situation where I have considered exactly what Mrs Pernille Vermund describes. So I simply cannot answer that question. I actually think it's a little bit... just stopping here. I think that is far-fetched, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145947	Then there is a brief comment by Mrs Mette Thiesen from the New Citizens' Party as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217145951	Then I have to do it incredibly educational and low-practical, because that is the kind of thing I am trained to do, that is to say to explain to children how things are connected. I would also like to explain this to the rapporteur. The rapporteur should then imagine that the rapporteur is in his own home and that a guest comes into the home and rapes the rapporteur. Then I just want to know if the rapporteur would say: 'Fuck you, don't do that, but you are very welcome to stay in my home.' Or would the rapporteur simply think that the guest should get out of the guard immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150032	Well, I don't know what it is about my appearance or what New Citizen's perception of Enhedslisten is, but I just want to tell Mrs Mette Thiesen that 10 days ago I was 34 years old, so I'm not a child. That's the first thing. The second is that we have voted through a consent law today, which actually means that we are all much better protected from rape. The third is that this isn't about welcoming anyone to your home. If I were to be subjected to the serious crime of being raped, I would hope that there would be a conviction in a court of law in the country in which the crime was committed so that that person could be punished. We have quite severe penalties for rape in Denmark, and I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150126	That is what we think, and we also believe that it should lead to expulsion if you are a foreign national. But the rapporteur did not answer my question. Now I tried to cut it all the way to the essence. Does the rapporteur not think that it is fair enough that if someone comes in as a guest in someone else's home and criminalises themselves against them and does not behave properly, he will be thrown out? Well, it's just so low-practical, because that's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150155	I do not agree that it can be done in the way that Mrs Thiesen does. But to answer, yes, if I had a big party before corona and someone didn't behave, I'd throw them out. That's what I'm thinking. Everyone else would. This is all about throwing them out, and that would be the punishment, but that is not what New Citizens are proposing. What you're proposing is that you be expelled from the country. You can easily be punished without a expulsion. And there we actually think that the stair model we have today works.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150226	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There is no one else who wants to make brief comments. I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Before mr. Marcus Knuth starts, I want you to know: last week we had a really good tradition, like Mr. Knuth. Marcus Knuth now resumes. There we made it so polite that every time we left the platform, we wiped off the desk, because then there was a fresh place for the next colleague, no matter which flight he or she came from. I would like to call for this, also in view of the current corona situation. So thank you for starting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150308	Thank you, President. We wholeheartedly support the expelling of criminal foreigners. That is why we in Conservatives are looking at a number of measures to make it easier. We have already presented a number of things here in Parliament. We are very pleased with the support from New Citizens and of course also from the Danish People's Party. Unfortunately, in some of our actions, we see that only our three parties are backing up, and unfortunately we do, even though we are parties in growth, if at least some Danes do not yet ask a majority. With that in mind, we do not share the view of the New Citizen that international commitments should be dropped completely. Yes, they can be difficult, but they also contribute to a certain form of world order. Our VLAK government actually showed, if anyone, that there is a great deal of room for improvement within the scope that now exists. I would even say that, during the refugee crisis, when we tightened up the national rules, we achieved something that was not achieved at all by any other EU country in terms of getting control of, or at least massively reducing, the influx. Everything else is just faster and easier to go in and adjust on the national handles than it is to do on the international ones. We think much more needs to be done to ensure that asylum seekers do not come here at all. This is essentially what I think New Citizens are referring to with the criminals they want to expel. It's easier if people don't come here at all. There we would like to look at measures that tighten up some of the government's relaxations. For example: the government has made it easier for refugees to stay in Denmark, even if there is peace in the home country, and it has made it more attractive to come here with higher benefits. So we certainly think you should look at that. You can also look at some of the attenuating circumstances in relation to being able to demonstrate, which are, of course, national restrictions and not international ones. You could also go where criminals, as we have suggested many times, should not have a Danish passport at all, because it makes everything else just easier to expel them. So I would say with my hand on the heart that it is not us in Conservatives who are the bottlenecks or slowing down further tightenings. I am very pleased about this and I welcome the cooperation with the New Civil and Danish People's Party, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150528	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150537	Thank you. I am glad that, despite everything, Conservatives recognise that there is a need to tighten up if we have to show more, but I am also sorry, and I am not surprised by the rapporteur, that Conservatives still maintain that the consideration for international conventions is more important than the consideration for the Danes who fall victim to the very serious crimes and who risk becoming new victims when we do not have criminal foreigners expelled, because we know that many of those who commit crime do not only do so once but also do so several times back to the Somali criminal whom I mentioned earlier. However, this prompts me to ask, given that we are so pleased with these conventions, whether the rapporteur cannot see that there is a challenge in terms of support for human rights, for example, when a human rights court judges as actively as it does, thereby setting aside common sense and what a large majority of the population would think would be right and proper for the sake of a serial criminal Somali criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150637	I think we can clearly look at whether we can do something both in relation to the European Court of Human Rights and some of the conventions. In fact, we tried that in the VLAK government too, and there are a number of countries around that think like us, and in cooperation with them I think it would be possible to have some kind of dialogue. When one hears the individual examples, one takes one's head and it hurts right inside the heart, but saying that then we just step out of it all or, as New Citizens say, just step out of the European Union, we do not think that is the way forward. Legislation sometimes creates some isolated examples, for which one is very, very resentful, but just to step out of it all we do not think is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150720	We were aware that there would be no majority in favour of this, and that is why we are writing into the proposal that it is not a prerequisite to withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights. It is a prerequisite that you write into the Aliens Act, that the Convention is waived when we talk about the expulsion of criminal aliens, so not how we behave towards each other if you are in Denmark, but how you have the right or not the right to decide who should be in our own country and who should not. I just have to say that the confidence that should be with the people, the quietly crumbles more of this kind of thing there is. Although they are isolated cases, it is the type of cases, the type of general cases that make you have a population that hears politicians say: we would like to, but we cannot, because that and that. And then you sit back and you think, "Why should I vote?" Can the rapporteur not see that there is a huge challenge for the people's regime and for our national sovereignty in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150819	But I do not agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund because we can. We showed this in the last reign. I think I myself was involved in 114 tightenings, which really made a difference, which showed that Denmark with national measures and by turning on the national handles actually achieved really, very much. Go ahead, Kærshovedgård. During Helle Thorning-Schmidt, asylum seekers could reject dangle around Copenhagen, even if they were to be in Sandholm camp. During our reign, we were set up Kærshovedgård, where the rejected asylum seekers and the people on tolerated residence must stay with reporting obligations and prison sentences if they do not. So we can do a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150901	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217150906	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund spent a great deal of time trying to smear Mrs Marie Krarup into, although Mrs Marie Krarup was kind enough to endorse the resolution. Mrs. Pernille Vermund's appeal was that the Danish People's Party had not done much, and then she probably compared with herself, although New Citizens have only been in the Folketing for 18 months and have hardly made any impression in here. So my question to Mr. Marcus Knuth is whether he cannot confirm that the Danish People's Party fought a brave battle at least in those years when he himself sat in the Danish Parliament and was part of the immigration policy and did what we could to draw the three bourgeois parties in the direction we wanted, but that of course there were internal differences in government too, and that one went as far as one could within the policy of the respective parties to meet the demands of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151009	Now one must always be careful not to interfere with other people's differences, but I can at least say that in the few years, including the four years when I was with the Left, we had an amazing collaboration with the Danish People's Party, which contributed to the 114 tightenings. So I think we achieved a great deal. You can take the two extremes: Denmark and our neighbour Sweden. You can see how we managed to tighten up, to send rejected asylum seekers and people who are being tolerated to Kærshovedgård, to send people back to countries to which other countries are not sending. The reality is that the national measures are the ones we can screw up in here, and that is where we will have an effect that is something faster than trying to go out and say that we will report out of everything and that it will solve all the problems. I do not think that will solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151059	Thank you for the honest answer and also for the wonderful cooperation we had in the last period. It seems strange that Mrs Pernille Vermund does not attack the Conservative People's Party for not having done enough when attacking the Danish People's Party, that is, when the rapporteur has just confirmed that the Danish People's Party has worked hard. Does the rapporteur not find it strange that Mrs Pernille Vermund does not attack the Conservatives for exactly the same thing that has been attacked by the Danish People's Party? What does the rapporteur think is the reason why Mrs Pernille Vermund keeps on smearing the Danish People's Party, even though we have been the wall?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151141	This is turning into a motion for a resolution on which I would now like to say that Mrs Pernille Vermund does not hold back from going to us Conservatives, at least not from me, when I am in the chair as rapporteur. So I don't quite recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151154	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151157	I shall refrain from commenting on what is going on here. I think we should concentrate on the important resolution that we have here. Sir. Marcus Knuth says this about making these 114 tights, and something about Kærshovedgård etc., but that's not what we in New Citizens just want. We don't really care how many tightenings there are, because if it doesn't solve the problems, you can do as many tightenings as you want. We really do want to solve the problems and the austerity that has been made certainly did not solve the problem of, for example, the case mentioned earlier. It did not solve the problem for Cecilie, who now has to live with her Somali rapist just living freely in Denmark. So will the Conservative People's Party not really help to solve foreign policy from scratch with New Citizens instead of all these patchy solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151257	There I simply have to say that it is not true that the 114+ tightenings did not lead to anything. Well, just take Kærshovedgård. In the past, I believe, former rapists who were supposed to be in Sandholm camp had to dangle around Copenhagen without consequence. We had them placed at Kærshovedgård with massive punishment, if they are not there then massive punishment. And, of course, the one case that the rapporteur is using as an example here is a terrible one, but even if we stepped out of all the international conventions in the world, it would not change that matter, that is, it is just a sad matter. In fact, I think we have achieved a great deal, and we were actually very well in the process of creating a new exit centre on the island of Lindholm, where some of these people could stay until they had to leave. The government has so frustrated that without taking any further action. So, I saw progress, progress, progress in the four years when we were there in government, and that was with very, very visible results.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151353	But it has not solved the problems, and that is what we really want. Those at Kærshovedgård, those at the exit centres in Denmark, must still move freely. We in the New Citizen do not want that. If you are doomed to expulsion, you must of course be placed in an exit centre, there must be a single door, and that is it out of Denmark. Of course, you should not hold the Danes against you. Will Conservatives help secure an exit centre where there is one door, and that is the door out of Denmark and no doors out to the Danes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151425	We could start by getting Kærshovedgård to work. Right now, the IT system doesn't work, and as far as I've been told, there's a hole in the fence where you can just walk in and out the back door. After all, we have come up with measures that actually work. The rapporteur says: 'Well, that doesn't have much effect. So: Denmark was the fifth most popular destination for asylum seekers when we took over government power. By the time we were done, we were down in about square number. 16 and, I believe, the least attractive country in Western Europe. It's like I remember. So I think we have actually achieved something that virtually no other country in Europe has succeeded in achieving.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151501	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll go over to mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. The college's wiping off the speaker's desk. Marcus Knuth It gets a second alcohol here).
ParlaMint-DK_20201217151525	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, and thank you to the President for the floor. Yes, we are now again spending an hour to one and a half discussing a resolution which the government in Denmark, at any time, will, at least up to today, shoot down with reference to Denmark's international commitments. The truth is that the government we had before the elections did so quite often, and that can of course be very pleasant, because we have a good group of rapporteurs here. On the other hand, however, I also think that the motion for a resolution here violates one of the principles which New Citizens very often puts forward, namely the principle that problems must be solved from the bottom up, because motion for a resolution B 78 does not mean that we solve the problems from the bottom up. After all, there are some problems with the European Convention on Human Rights, which no rapporteurs have yet addressed. So, the first framework condition is that all power parties in this country believe that a small state has more advantages than the disadvantages of international treaties, but what is the challenge of the human rights convention is that the convention itself is extremely short and imprecise. You can almost memorize it. Article 8 (1): "Everyone has the right to respect for his or her private and family life,...., what does that mean? It has not been pricked out at all in the way that a Danish law has been pricked out. The reason why this has not been removed is, of course, that what Article 8 says actually means that it is laid down by judgments handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. This means that Denmark has originally signed a document which is almost empty of content, which is incredibly little in it, and then the content changes all the time, as these orders are made, and it is really elastic in meter size. So the problem is not so much that we have signed the Convention on Human Rights as it is that we have signed an unclear document, the importance of which is constantly being changed by those who have not been elected and are not responsible for any citizens. For example: the Court of Human Rights has decided that it is a human right to be free from café noise. The Court of Human Rights has also ruled that with the human rights convention in hand a citizen can overrule a local plan banning satellite dishes because one has the right to free information, so a local municipality cannot create a local plan that takes these into account. And it is quite strange, frankly, that we have a human rights convention that goes into so much detail. The second problem is that the Convention on Human Rights is part of Danish law. So that means that the state of law in Denmark is constantly being changed by some people who are not in Denmark at all and who are not elected, but because it is in Danish law, we must abide by it anyway. So solving the problems from scratch is really creating political pressure against dynamic interpretations and possibly even against the incorporation law. I don't know. I believe that there is a long way to go for us to get out of the incorporation law, but at least we can start by creating some kind of political pressure or by drawing attention to its problems. And now the Socialist rapporteur has been kind enough to mention a book I have written, so I will now pass it on and mention a book written by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, and he has at least tried to raise a debate with him in the book he has just published, which is called "Goodbye to the People's Rule." So we cannot support this proposal because it does not solve the problems from scratch, but we do want to continue with the debate, such as the one we are discussing here. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt travels in farewell to the people's government, that the state of law is constantly changing in Denmark, without us as Danish politicians being able to do anything about it, and without us really being able to hold anyone responsible for it, and that we just end up sitting with the problems and one poor rapporteur for one government party after another, who has to say no to a proposal that the rapporteur knows very well is sensible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152029	You're welcome. It gave rise to one brief remark from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152034	When we put forward the proposal as we are doing today, it is not because we are not aware that the activism of the Court of Justice is the fundamental problem in this. Nor is it because we do not want to remove the incorporation law. This is in recognition of the fact that there is a long way to go if it is ever possible. After all, we have supported it, the times there have been questions and other matters in that direction. We have also made joint proposals for adoption, as I recall. That is why we have today a proposal which obliges the government in the next parliamentary year to ensure that foreigners are expelled after the first sentence. How to achieve that, we have written something about it in the comments. We have also written something about the fact that there is no need to withdraw from the Convention. We have written that there will be a small limit. I've often been asked if you should be thrown out because you stole a Marsbar. No, I don't think so. But if you've stolen the entire warehouse of Marsbars, of course, it's a different matter. So we have tried to make it as simple as possible for the government to find out how we can ensure that these violent cases like those mentioned this summer, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, do not continue to repeat themselves and that we do not have criminal foreigners that we cannot get rid of. It is in this light that this motion for a resolution has been written, in other words as openly as possible, so that we do not force the government and a majority in the Folketing, which want to maintain international conventions, to do something about what is fundamental to them. All we're saying is let's get this done with the options we now have. And we are not prepared to wait for the 15 to 20 years to pass before things are so glaring that it will convince people that we need to depart from the activism of the Court of Justice. We simply do not dare to gamble with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152231	However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it makes sense to have a principle of solving the problems from the bottom up. What I am arresting in my rapporteur's speech is that it is just that, under the rules we have today, no matter who has the power, it will be the case that, under the rules that we have today, the official work, which has a duty to ensure that law is properly administered, we have many discussions about that in political life right now, just want to tell the ministers in office at any time that these are the rules. That is why we must shoot down this motion for a resolution. Then, as rapporteur, you can sit in your quiet mind and think: it is really very sensible, but it is my pitiful duty to go up and say that it is bad and that we are voting against it. I've tried that myself many times. That is why we must raise this debate on the incorporation law and on the dynamic interpretation. There are circumstances for raising this debate in fact better in the Folketing than they have been for a very long time, because I have heard the Minister for Justice be very critical of judicial activism, both in the case of the European Court of Justice and in the case of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152344	The rapporteur knows that I very much appreciate the rapporteur's pragmatic approach to everything we do here in the Folketing. So from a pragmatic point of view, I can see the argument that it will never get through anyway, because the current government will put international conventions and the Court of Justice's current activism above such a proposal. But if LA, for which the rapporteur is rapporteur, sat with the power of the government today, with the support of DF and New Citizens, would LA work for legislation in the coming parliamentary year, so that foreigners convicted of crime in Denmark would be expelled without warning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152434	Yes, with the reservation that we in LA, even when we are in government, think life is too short for you to sit in a court of convention or impeachment afterwards, because you have bumped something through, so of course we will not do that. That is why the debate would, after all, end up with such rather boring compromises that we often discuss in the Parliamentary Assembly until we tackle the problems from the bottom up, as the new citizens so rightly say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152503	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. I would therefore like to welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217152524	A late spring evening Cecilie was beaten, humiliated and raped by a 17-year-old serial criminal Somali citizen. The Somali rapist was convicted, but he was not expelled. He was just given another warning, the fourth of the kind, because it would certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations to expel him, one must understand. Neither the first, second, third or fourth time he was expelled for his crime, and in fact it is the case that out of 3,820 foreigners who received a sentence of liberty in 2019 only 140 were expelled forever, and only 30 out of the 140 are registered as expatriated. It's a mockery of Cecilie and other victims. How could it have come to this? How can consideration of criminal aliens completely ignore the concern for the safety and security of the Danes? Far away from the Danish victims there are 47 judges in Strasbourg who have developed and interpreted the Convention on Human Rights at will. What comes from the law today is not what it says in the Convention on Human Rights. On the contrary, it is what activist judges want it to say. The Court of Human Rights has provided for emphasis to be placed on the perpetrator's affiliation with Denmark, the perpetrator's attachment to his country of origin and the seriousness of the crime. For Cecilie this meant that she was beaten, humiliated and raped by a Somali in the Copenhagen West. This would not have happened if the perpetrator had been shown consistently and after the first sentence. Politicians are held responsible because for decades a misguided immigration policy has been pursued, because politicians have not grasped the root of the nettle and because foreign policy has not been resolved from scratch. Once the Somali rapist gets out of prison again, he can stay again in Taastrup, where Cecilie lives. As a result, it's Cecilie who's gonna have to move away. The Court of Human Rights attaches great importance to the right to private and family life, but evidently, when it comes to Danish victims of foreign crime and the ravages, it does not take account of the foreign perpetrator's concern for the safety and security of the Danes. Law does not become fair or just by being called a human right. Let me give you another example. In a verdict of the Vestre Landsret, a 42-year-old Palestinians avoided expulsion, although he was sentenced to six years in prison for having committed serious sexual crimes for a long time. Why wasn't he expelled? He was not, because it would be contrary to the interests of his seven minor children, over whom he alone had parental rights. There's just one problem. There's a big problem. The Palestinians were convicted of raping their own two daughters, the one, from the time she was approx. 6 years, until she was approx. Twelve years. Everyone should be able to say that it is insane to prevent the expulsion of a paedophile, incested alien by showing consideration for his minor children, that is, his right to private and family life. For us in New Citizens, concern for the security and security of the Danes is more important than concern for criminal aliens and outdated conventions. When I stand here today, I am not asking politicians to terminate any conventions. I ask politicians to support Denmark's failure to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights in matters of expulsion. All it takes is for us to decide that the observations of the law must state that the courts should not base it on expulsion issues. The consequence will be political alone and it can and must be taken by politicians. I am sad that it does not seem that we will get a majority in favour of our proposal to have criminal foreigners expelled consistently and after the first sentence. Somewhere I had hoped that more people would support this, especially when I think about what Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said here on 8 October after I told Cecilie's story: I have no understanding that a Danish hospitality is exchanged with rape, with gang crime or with drug sales. So we would also like to expel more. That is what the Prime Minister said at the opening debate. Was it just empty talk that just has to hold us off? Dear Parliament, it is now that we must act, especially if we want to overcome the crime of foreigners who daily plague our society. We must not accept the crime of foreigners and the ravages of Denmark. It has to be stopped. They must be caught, they must be judged and they must be deported. For when you as a foreigner commit crime in Denmark, you betray the trust that the Danes have shown. We owe it to Cecilie and all Danes to grasp the root of the nettle, to solve the immigration policy from scratch. In New Citizens we continue to fight to ensure a free and secure Denmark for Cecilie and for the Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153142	You're welcome. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153148	Thank you. The Danish People's Party supports the motion for a resolution, which is why we are going to delve a little into the proposal itself, which states that there must be a small limit. And what is the de minimis limit? Do you have to go out because of a perfume theft, a bicycle theft? The rapporteur has said that it should not be for the theft of a Marsbar. But what about two Marsbars or ten Marsbars? Should it be if you illegally import a hair care product or burglary into a public school? Is it supposed to be a knife attack, or is it supposed to be because you're just walking around with a knife? The rapporteur simply has to tell us: what is the de minimis limit? What has New Citizens been doing about it? This is quite an important part, for a de minimis limit is understood very differently by Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten. I don't know where New Citizens stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153253	I can guarantee the rapporteur that we are very close to DF in relation to a de minimis limit and, together with DF, very far from Enhedslisten in relation to a de minimis limit. For example, if we take theft, we distinguish between use theft and simple theft. So, you come home from the city one night, you take a bike, you bike on it and put it back, it's called utility theft, while simple theft is if, as in recent history, you are one who goes out and steals cargo bikes and other expensive bikes to sell them on. I think it's a line that could be a line you drew. The same is true of the Marsbars. Is it that a young guy takes a Marsbar in a supermarket, enough to expel? I wouldn't say that at first, while a young guy who goes into the warehouse and steals the boxes with Marsbars is a hero, quite different thing. So I think it is somewhere in between, and I can reassure the rapporteur that, when it comes to serious crime and also to milder crime, we are on the side of the victims with DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153402	I thought Mrs. Pernille Vermund was a quiet man. Because, as we know from experience and from the police, theft of use leads to simple theft, simple theft leads to more serious criminal acts, which in turn lead to serious assaults under the criminal code. So is the truth not that new citizens do not really know how small the threshold should be because they really do not want to strike? If I were to call on the new citizens to take this proposal seriously, we would have to explain in committee exactly what is meant by a trivial limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153452	We are very happy to do so in committee and, as I said, I am sure that we are very close to each other. I forgot to thank you for your support before, and it is true, as the rapporteur said earlier to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, that it was a heated debate between Mrs Marie Krarup and myself when Mrs Marie Krarup had been on the platform, and I shall be the first to regret that. In fact, I think it is crazy that we discuss with each other internally when the challenges we face are challenges of a completely different nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153523	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153524	I think I do not agree that we should not draw attention to the differences and similarities. Because I think that's actually quite important. For there is no doubt that the people who are in New Citizens today have previously been in a party that has created the problems that New Citizens now claim they are trying to solve from scratch. So the past of the new citizens has created the problems we are facing today, and I think there is every reason to point this out. Because we could have avoided having such a large Muslim minority in Denmark, if among other things. New Citizens' current supporters in the Danish Parliament had voted for the Danish People's Party from the beginning. If we had been given 90 seats in 2001, when the Danish People's Party was so strengthened that we became a support party for the government, we would not have had such a Muslim minority today, then we would not have had as many as we needed to send out of the country. But I won't be able to ask my question until the next line.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153630	I welcome the confidence in the support of the voters of the new citizens and new citizens, and it is true that it is increasing and that it looks really positive. However, I still do not believe that together we would be able to design 90 mandates yet. It would be nice if we succeeded one day, and I do not believe that it would have happened if I had engaged in politics in 2001 and committed myself to DF. When we needed to create new citizens at all, it was because we could see during the migrant crisis that the massive challenges there were, and the size that DF had at that time, were not even enough to solve the problems, so that we were not willing to put our foot down here and say: here and no longer, we will not support a government that lets thousands of migrants flow across our borders and destroy our country forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153725	Now I did not ask the rapporteur to engage in the Danish People's Party in 2001, because the rapporteur had hardly had the courage to do so. For then it was really hard, then it was really difficult, then one was almost persecuted during periods. But what I would have asked the people who are New Citizens' supporters today was, of course, to have voted in favour of the Danish People's Party's policy. For there was But what I would like to ask is: why does the rapporteur not really want Denmark's accession to the international conventions to be abolished? Because that's where you can make a difference. So if you really want to solve these things and have the opportunity to send out more of the country and denounced more citizenship, then it is the conventions that must be pursued, which we have repeatedly proposed. Why is that not what we are doing instead of saying that this has something to do with solving the problem of foreigners from the bottom up? Because it doesn't, as Mr. Henrik Dahl explained so well. This isn't a bottom turn. It is, of course, a scratch on the surface, which unfortunately is also impossible to get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153828	Dispatch of all criminal aliens consistently and after the first sentence is not a scratch on the surface. But it is essential, much needed, and it will delight and benefit a great many Danes, not least the potential victims who will be when foreigners who commit crime in Denmark are not expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153852	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153854	I think it is beyond doubt that we fully agree that criminal foreigners should of course not be in Denmark. What also made me pay attention was the remarks made by Mrs Pernille Vermund on the international conventions, and it is possible that I did not listen properly. However, it sounded as if Mrs Pernille Vermund intended her proposal to be in line with international conventions, that is to say that we do not want a dispute with them, and that it should apply specifically only to the problems we have with expelling criminal foreigners, i.e. typically Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Is that correct? Because there are plenty of other provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights which create enormous problems and bind democracy and which mean that we in Parliament must not implement the policy that we have promised our electorate would do. So I just need to be absolutely sure that we agree that Denmark should get out of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217153952	We would have no problem with stepping out of the European Convention on Human Rights, because we have a very good constitution which is so good at protecting the rights of citizens of Denmark and of Danish citizens. When we say in this specific proposal, which is about expelling criminal foreigners, that we want to be included in the Aliens Act, that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights do not apply, that the Convention on Human Rights and other international obligations, as stated in the observations, do not apply, then it is to ensure that, in relation to the expulsion of criminal foreigners, which is what is at issue today, we are not prevented by conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154041	That's fine, and it's been tried many times. I would almost be tempted to say that it has been tried for 25 years, at least since the Danish People's Party was founded, but as long as we agree that the fundamental problem is not only in relation to foreign policy. The fundamental problem is that, as I think Mrs Vermund mentioned, there are a number of judges who feel empowered to be judges over us, and in a democracy there is nothing higher than the people, than the rule of the people and the 50% that the electorate had to put together, and who then have the majority. I just think it is very important to establish principle. I would also like to say that it should be remembered that the judges who sit down in Strasbourg, for the vast majority, are quite unqualified in relation to Danish judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154128	I can only agree. It is a disaster for our people's rule, and it undermines our people's rule that we have people sitting in Strasbourg, who make decisions of a very far-reaching nature for the Danish people. So I fully agree with the questioner on that, and we wholeheartedly support it if we can get a majority in favour of it. But the proposal here goes more specifically to the expulsion of criminal foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154203	Thank you very much to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments and no request has been made for the Minister to speak, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154228	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154248	Thank you to the authors of the SF, and I would also like to say thank you for your tenacity. This is, of course, an important issue which we also discussed recently in a question debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly. In that debate, together with the new Minister for Development, I explained the Danish support for Greece, including the concrete support we gave following the fire in the Moria camp in September of this year. Nothing has since changed our position on the question of whether it would be sensible for Denmark and for children to welcome children from the Moria camp. The answer is still the same: we do not want to participate in a redistribution from the Moria camp. I, on the other hand, share the opinion of the proposers that the situation on Lesbos is serious, but that does not alter the government's basic view that we should not create incentives for more people to move towards Europe. And that is exactly what we fear will happen, in other words, that an incentive will be created for more people to get into the boats if we start redistributing asylum seekers, including from Greece. We will not help to draw a picture of the fact that, if you risk your life and reach the EU's external border, you are guaranteed a ticket to have your asylum case dealt with in Denmark or another welfare state, for example. I do not think this is a viable solution. Instead, we must put an end to the industry of traffickers who are moving migrants to Europe and who are doing so in a way in which people are also risking their lives. We've said that many times before, and we're happy to do it again. We need to put an end to the asylum system that supports this traffic. We need to address the causes of migration a little more fundamentally, and we are in the process of doing so. I believe that this is more the way to work along migration routes, to secure external borders and to avoid redistributing. Persons who come to Denmark and apply for asylum must be sent to a third country where asylum procedures are to take place and if they need protection, they must do so locally in the third country and not in Denmark. As I have also said earlier today, the government has done the legwork that confirms that it is possible within our international obligations to move asylum procedures outside the European Union, and this has also been confirmed today by the Institute for Human Rights, which has reached the same legal conclusion. We need such a system precisely in order to make up for the loss of control caused by migration today. The government therefore wants to pursue an alien policy in which we can manage more ourselves, how many and who will come to Denmark, while at the same time wishing to take international responsibility. We believe that we can help more people closer to the conflicts by sending the funds there than by spending them on asylum and subsequent stays in Denmark. As part of that policy, we also support controlled resettlement through the UN. Resettlement of quota refugees from neighbouring areas is fairer and more appropriate than redistribution of spontaneous asylum seekers and irregular migrants. I would like to conclude by stating once again that, like other European countries, we take the situation very seriously. The Greeks are faced with a difficult task, which is made clear after the fire in the Moria camp, and that is also why we have chosen to help the Greek authorities financially and with staff and equipment. However, we still do not believe that the redistribution of asylum seekers is a viable solution. We continue to follow developments in Greece closely, just as we generally follow the challenges of tackling illegal migration closely. One final point I would like to make, given that I have the floor anyway, is that the latest information from the Greek authorities is that there are currently about 2 000 people. 140 unaccompanied minors staying at Lesbos. How much of those arrived after the fire we cannot say immediately, but immediately they should all have arrived afterwards. The remainder of the unaccompanied minors who remained in Lesbos during the Moria camp fire have been transferred to the mainland. Here they are accommodated in different ways, among others. in shelters of the type to which we have contributed from the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154709	Thank you. It gave rise to a series of brief remarks, and we start from the top end of the list. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154719	Thank you. Can the Minister confirm that if we were to do what the proposal says here, namely take 300 children of migrants who are currently living in Greece, their parents, if they have parents, would have the right to seek asylum in Denmark and probably have the right to asylum in Denmark because of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights, which gives them the right to family life, and that this would mean that these 300 children would have to receive them, because of our conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154801	Well, that's the fact that makes these discussions hard, isn't it? I have three children myself. It is easy enough for me to stand here in Welfare Denmark, a safe and secure society, and to say that I will never send them, push them in front of me, in the hope that they were granted asylum in another country so that I could be brought together as a family. But I didn't grow up in Afghanistan or any other country either. It is well known in international migration that sometimes children are used as icebreakers for the rest of the family to come along. That's what makes this whole situation so terrible, and that's why we have to think long-term and coherent and not stare blindly at what's standing right under our noses, even if an ordinary humanitarian imperative would say: Help almost that stands right in front of you. But we also need to think coherently about what the long-term consequences will be. That is why we are rather sceptical about redistributing. We are not only sceptical, but we are opposed to redistributing asylum seekers from the Greek islands, because we fear that it will only trigger a further wave of migration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154904	I am pleased to hear that, and seen with the long-term glasses on it, can the Minister say something about whether the Minister would assume or estimate that more children would be pushed in front of migrants, that is to say that more children and young people would be sent as anchors into Europe if a practice were started to take children out of migrant camps in Greece and distributed to other European countries? Would this mean, in accordance with the Minister's expectations and presumption, that more children or fewer children would be pushed in front of migrants into Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217154943	There are no guarantees. Of course, for good reasons, I cannot say that this will be the case with certainty, but that is what is my fear, and I think that one can go as far as to say that is what we can assume. That is where I just appeal to the children of the Greek islands not to be seen as the only challenge, because if it were the only children in the world who were having a hard time, I think it would actually make sense to redistribute them. But that's because I really just think it's the tip of the iceberg of thousands, tens of thousands of children in the rest of the world who could also come in front of the rest of the family. That is why I am a little sceptical, and I am actually opposed to redistributing them. However, I fully recognise the intention behind it, namely that there are some children who are having difficulty and that they need help. We shall then try to do so in a different way. I have already told you about both some of the financial contributions and some of the equipment and staff we send to Greece. And I know the Greeks are happy about that too. This is not something we have come up with ourselves; it is on the basis of calls from them that we deliver, for example. equipment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155045	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155050	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. We have discussed this many times, and in recent debates it has been suggested that it is no use helping 200 children. It is like a drop in the ocean. In the Greens, we believe that every life is unique, and that is why we must also help the children we can. And these are unaccompanied children we're talking about. Now the Minister himself mentions that he has three children, so I think there is some understanding that for every child it means something to have a decent life relationship. So I would like to hear how one can override it, that in practice one had the opportunity to help these children and still have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155135	I would like to start by saying that my argument is not that it is a drop in the ocean. I think we're a lot of people transferring $100. a month to Doctors without Borders or the Terms of Children, and what it is all called; for it is also a drop in the sea, but after all it is a drop, and many streams small make a large stream. So the argument is not that it is a drop in the ocean. The argument is that we are at risk of just launching a further wave of migration towards Europe, where children are sometimes pushed first if we start redistributing. That is why we would rather help where they are right now and what we are talking about here today is then on the Greek islands. So we have to ask the Greek Government what they need and help them with what they need from equipment, finance and staff. Denmark, for example, has. For a number of years, people from the Foreigners' Agency on Greek islands have helped with asylum treatment. We have also spent over 40 million. kr. kr. Just the last year, I think, of our development funds to help humanitarian aid, for example. To Shelters. I don't know if these are the Shelters they live in, but at least what the Greeks have been asking for is what we have delivered. And some of the children who have been moved away from Lesbos and into the mainland live in such shelters. If it is not just those that Denmark has supplied, then it is certainly some that are similar to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155302	Thank you for your answer. The Minister also mentioned that he was afraid that if we accepted some of these 200 unaccompanied refugee children who have really difficult conditions, it could trigger a flood. Now it is the case that the British Government has produced a report by the University of Oxford which shows that if you make proper asylum arrangements, it is actually much better in terms of avoiding trafficking in human beings. Then we won't risk them drowning out at sea. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155339	I do not know exactly the report from the University of Oxford to which reference is made. However, in general terms, I believe that we in Denmark have a fairly good asylum system with good accommodation conditions, high legal certainty, interpreters, lawyers and a review body with an independent judge at the end of the table. I really believe that we can be reasonably proud of our asylum system. That is not where the problem lies. The problem lies in the way in which the European asylum system as a whole is linked together, where we need to go in order to be able to obtain protection. That is what is driving the movement towards Europe. We would like to have it upside down and say that if you come here as a spontaneous asylum seeker, it is certainly a guarantee that you will not have protection in Europe. We need a little more organised and a little more structured and controlled to deal with asylum cases closer to conflicts, outside the European continent. And those who come here are people who are being re-inhabited through the UN, not people who have come here spontaneously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155438	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155441	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that it comes from the Minister's own mouth that they are opposed to taking unaccompanied refugee children to Denmark, while in the municipalities we hear social democratic mayors and social democratic urban roots say that they have room for refugee children, and that they are willing to give them room for social democratic municipal politicians and mayors? What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155524	I try to meet them with the same understanding and respect that I meet the proposers here from the SF with, namely that I think we share the basic intention that when people are in need, they need help. Then we just do not share the same political analysis of whether this is the best way to give help. I have also answered that when I have received letters from mayors about what their municipal councils have decided; so that has been the line of my answers to the mayors.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155558	I am glad that it is the Minister's line right now and here that has won the party. But how sure can we be that this line can be maintained when the grassroots in the party apparently have some other views? I can be very concerned about that. So is there not a risk that the Social Democracy could become more softer with the SF and the Radical Left in this kind of kind of thing, in my view, completely irresponsible proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155633	Perhaps I should start by saying that, after all, it is a fairly significant minority of the country's municipalities that have made such a decision in the municipal council and have turned to the government. The vast majority of municipalities have not made such a decision. Even if it is an expression of the roots of social democracy, I think it is a little too soon to conclude. But there is certainly no reason to be afraid that the government will change its position, because we are absolutely convinced that it is the wrong way to start redistributing internally in Europe. Moreover, there are also some discussions at Council meetings between ministers at the moment. In the context of a European Asylum and Migration Pact, similar discussions are also taking place on whether it would not make good sense to redistribute asylum seekers or rejected asylum seekers within Europe. We are certainly not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155719	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155722	I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration agrees with Mrs Krarup that it is striking, however, how many powerful, centrally placed members of the Social Democratic Party, who seem to disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I'm standing here with a letter, like sir. Ole Bollesen, Mayor of the City of Southern Jurs, has written to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration with a request to follow the SF's suggestions here to welcome children from the Moria camp etc. Well, you get that idea when you see this kind of thing I have also seen on the website of the National Association of Municipalities that it is a considerable number of mayors from the Social Democratic Party who have this policy that this tight alien policy doesn't go very deep. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155818	I will probably leave some others to assess how powerful and centrally placed different mayors are, but I do not agree that it is a considerable number of mayors from the Social Democratic Party who have approached this issue. Having said that, however, social democracy is also a free party; we are not a centralized party in which we are pushing positions from above. I mean, if you, for example... in Syddjurs Municipality, has taken a different position, it is after all their position in Syddjurs Municipality. It is just not the Social Democracy in Denmark's position, nor is it the government's position, nor will it be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155847	But it is still worrying all the time that the Social Democrats in the City of Southern Jurs and all sorts of other places around are, after all, the candidates for parliament which later end up in the Folketing and which influence the policy of the government as long as it is government at least. Well, away from Social Democracy. Let me ask the question which the Minister did not answer before, and it is, of course, in order to have a complete explanation of the consequences of this proposal from the government's support party: is it not true that if you took a little adorable child from Moria camp to Denmark, because we all get soft on our hearts when we see these poor people, he or she would be entitled, under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, to have his family in Denmark, whether a family member might be some crazy jihadist or anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217155941	If there is a child, for example. an Afghan boy who comes to Denmark and gets a residence permit in Denmark, and then a family reunification application is submitted from some family members. Let's say they are staying in Pakistan or Afghanistan. Then you would deal with an ordinary family reunification case, and there would be the child's best interests and the right to family life weight very heavily. However, there are exceptions, I would say: we also have the right to say that there is a terrorist and that, despite the right to family life, he does not come to Denmark. But that is an exception.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160021	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160022	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that the Minister and the government have not changed their position since we discussed it here in the last question, and I would like to say to one of the previous authors, in relation to a brief remark, that this is not really about being soft with the Radical Left; it is about taking care of those who are currently Europe's most vulnerable children. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what is needed in this very sad situation, so that the government will help and welcome some of these 300 children. We see that the wretched and worn tents are torn away by the weather. We see that some people are freezing and the situation is just really unhappy. What more does it take than the very, very sad situation for the government to help 300 children, for whom other countries have also taken responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160116	Now I know that the government and Radicals share the view that, of course, anyone who needs help cannot come to Denmark all over the world. Not a single member of parliament thinks so. That is why we also need to think very carefully when relocating refugees in Denmark. We have said that we would like to welcome 200 quota refugees from Rwanda. They come from Rwanda's neighbouring countries. We have said this because Rwanda, on the other hand, has received some migrants, some asylum seekers and refugees who are staying in some terrible detention centres in Libya and would otherwise have gone to Europe. Rwanda has said: instead of Rwanda. Get a future with us. Don't move in the rubber boats against Europe. We would like to sign for that to Rwanda. That is why we have taken people, we know who need protection, and mainly women and children. They don't feel any worse or better than the ones at Lesbos. We know, however, that they need protection and we know that we do not support a trafficking industry, on the contrary. We're undermining it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160223	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160224	But can the Minister not be worried that if we do not relieve Greece and they are completely left alone with this task, where there are children in a very, very difficult and unhappy situation at the moment, where it is drowned and where they are freezing, it may end up with the refugees who are in a more irregular, illegitimate way than if we now take 300 children from this area, so that there is at least some relief from Greece and they are not left alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160301-2	The way we want to help Greece and relieve them is in terms of economy, equipment, staff. We are doing everything we can to ensure that they can maintain both their borders and their asylum system and that they can take care of the children who are in Greece. We are far from being the only country that has chosen to help, and I also know from the Greek Government that they are grateful for the help that has come, and I think, in fact, also, at least in relation to how previous Greek governments have handled it, that the present one is doing better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160337	Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160338	Thank you. I'm disappointed in the government here. I have to say that. I think it's too bad. But it was not because I had expected that the position had changed since the question debate we had recently. But I was hoping you'd have shown a little more room for heart to these kids anyway. I would like to hear the Minister say now that you think it is a better way of helping, that is, what you are doing now. Does the government honestly believe that it has helped more with the help it has sent so far than if it had received 300 children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160414	I believe that the government's policy on refugees must be taken together. And overall, I think it is quite clear that it is better to help them closer to the conflicts in a way that people do not have to go to Denmark, where we know that half of them are denied asylum. We have great problems returning them, and we run the risk of setting up even more a trafficking industry. So overall, yes, I think it's better. And we must be careful only to stare blindly at the Greek islands; we must also consider what consequences this will have for other children who can reside in Turkey or Pakistan or Bangladesh or Afghanistan and who also live in families who have dreams and hopes of migration in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160452	Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160455	Thank you. So let me ask you something else. If the argument for not accepting these children is that you are so afraid of increased trafficking in human beings, why is it that you do not accept some more quota refugees instead? The government has chosen to accept only these 200 • Why is it that 500 quota refugees are not accepted, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160522	This is primarily because we believe that Danish society should be able to integrate the people who come here. We have seen a decrease in the number of asylum seekers; we actually have record low asylum rates now. But it was quite a few years ago that we had record numbers of asylum seekers. And now we have carefully stepped back into the United Nations quota refugee system. I think it is important that we also send the signal that it is the system of the future, and this is best done by showing it in practice as well. However, we have also sent a signal that there is a cautious step into the quota refugee system, because we still believe that there are major integration challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160556	It's Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160558	Thank you. I am also very disappointed in the government in this matter. I'll tell you what. I would like to ask the Minister if there is any evidence that if Denmark were to accept 300 euros it could also be 100 euros, and it could also be 400 euros unaccompanied refugee children, this would mean that it would pave the way for all sorts of other refugees, i.e. a little as Mrs Pernille Vermund suggested, or perhaps more than suggested. But I would like to ask the Minister: is there evidence of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160634	Well, the reason why I couldn't guarantee Pernille Vermund that the automatics existed, but answered her that I could assume it did, is that I'm not just standing here and knowing if there's a lot of research that exactly concludes it. So, I'm gonna take the liberty of striking common logic and common sense. People want to live in Europe, especially in North and Western Europe, and if there is a route that can give a residence permit in North and Western Europe with a future prosperity and a welfare society, it is common sense that others will follow in the same footsteps. That is why I am incredibly sceptical about having to redistribute, whether from Malta, Lesbos or elsewhere, for every time we redistribute one, we are also sending the signal that the next person who stands in the same place also has an opportunity to be redistributed. I think that is just toxic, both for Danish society, but also for our attempts to curb trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160730	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160731	Well then, I hope that the Minister will examine whether there is evidence, otherwise the Minister can at least count on a written committee question from the Enhedslisten, because I think it is nonsense to say so. People want to live in a place where there's no war, sir. Minister; people want to live in a place where there are no climate disasters; people want to live in a place where they are not being persecuted. These are people on the run. I should therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister knows whether these children have a need for protection. I don't know if they have one, but I'm pretty convinced of it. But I would like to know whether the Minister actually knows whether or not they have a need for protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160815	I cannot know that for good reasons, since many of them have not yet been dealt with in their asylum case. It is then for the Greek authorities to do so if they seek asylum. But for the fact that people want to live in a place where there is no war: Of course. But we also just have to say that if you, for example... Takes many of the people who are staying in Turkey and sits in boats against the Greek islands, it is not because there is war in Turkey • there is no war in Greece, there is no war in northern Macedonia, there is not war all the way up to the Western Balkans, there is no war when they hit Austria, there is no war when they hit Germany, there is no war when they hit Denmark. But they still want to go to Sweden, at least some of them. They have passed six, seven countries, perhaps eight countries where there is no war. So they are not just moving for peace; they are also moving for a special country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160855	I would like to congratulate Mrs Halime Oguz, who sat down with a chair between herself and another Member. It caused some confusion in relation to the technique, but she should be commended for it. Now it's Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160906	Thank you. I am also very, very sorry about the lack of solidarity that we are showing towards another EU country. I would just like to know whether the Minister thinks that he can be satisfied with having done his duty as an EU country by providing financial assistance alone. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217160933	When Greece experienced pressure on the border at the beginning of 2020, before we all talked about corona, we actually decided to make contributions, for example. In the form of a Challenger aircraft from the defense and in the form of personnel there are people from the National Police and the Foreign Affairs Agency, and I think there are also some from the Ministry of Defence. In addition, we have allocated over 40 million. kr. and also some humanitarian aid. I think that's actually okay. I think that is a good thing for an EU country that has asked for help. When they ask for help, we deliver what they ask for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161022	Halime Oguz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161023	Thank you. Now the reality is that humanitarian aid is not enough. I would therefore like to know what the Minister thinks should happen to these little unaccompanied children. Are they going to remain in the camps under these wretched conditions, or are they going to be sent back to the war-torn countries from which they have fled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161054	The short answer is that if they need protection, they must have it in the country where they have applied for it. If they do not need protection, then you have to find out if you can send them back to the country where they do not need protection. These are asylum seekers, just like everyone else. Minors seeking asylum have some slightly different opportunities for asylum than adults, but I trust that the Greek authorities will be able to deal with these asylum cases. It is clear that they are facing a challenge, and that is also why, for example, we are facing a challenge. has staff from the Foreigners' Agency on the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161131	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161132	I also think that it is rather sad at such an almost Christmas time that the government does not take a little more away from the children in the refugee camps. It is the case that the UN has at least discussed it many times in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security that in the refugee camps in general, and there are some who are good, some who are bad and some who are old and some who are new, there are between 40 and 60%. of the money that needs to be made available for you to live or survive. This means that there is the food you need, there is a bit of schooling for the children who are and there is a bit of social security and health safety, so that you can also cope with a situation like now with the corona crisis and so on. Does the Minister really think that it is a good thing that we are allowing Greece to rush with such serious problems as there are, and then we are sending a few million kroner? After all, it is an extreme burden for the Mediterranean countries in these years to deal with this, and they cannot do anything to meet just a minimum of UN requirements for refugee camps, even in Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161243	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161243-2	I don't think it's a few million. Denmark has sent somewhere between 44 and 45 million. kr. to Greece just over the past few months. Then there is just one other calculation, and I would also like to appeal for some reflection, now that we refer to Christmas time and neighbourly love and solidarity, which are mentioned and why we do not have more room for heart? Accommodation of a person for 1 year at a Danish exit centre, that is, for people who have been denied asylum, and after all half of those seeking asylum who are refused asylum cost DKK 300,000. That's 1 year's accommodation. For that money you could buy 600 survival packages for children in a UN camp, plus you could buy 800 home help lessons for Danish society. It's for the accommodation of a single person. Therefore, my conclusion is that the more people who seek asylum here, the less money there is to help. And that is why it is not humanistic to pursue a policy that asylum seekers should come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161351	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161351-2	Now I'm not born yesterday, and I'm not fooled by those numbers. The Danes have spent somewhere between 300 and 400 billion on their own health during the last three quarters of the year. kr., which we have translated into society for the sake of the corona crisis and to help companies and people and all sorts of others through this crisis. Then it would be fine if we had set just a billion. kr. extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161429	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161429-2	It is true that if we spent 1 billion. kr. more on development aid, we would be able to help many more people of course. There is just one thing: we are one of the five countries in the world that actually spend at least 0.7 per cent. Our contribution to development aid. It's just before we whip ourselves and say we're not doing good enough. Only five countries in the world use what the UN recommends to be spent on development aid, and Denmark is one of them. We spend between 16 and 17 billion. kr. a year. It's insanely much money, and we're going crazy far for that money. If we start moving them to help the refugees closer to the conflicts, as we would like, we can help even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161507	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to the rapporteur's round, and that is first Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161526	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the SF proposes that Denmark should accept approximately 300 minors asylum seekers either from the former Moria camp or from the Kara Tepe camp in Greece. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that Denmark as a rich and resourceful country must of course help the world's refugees, and we must provide that help in the most sustainable and efficient way possible, so that we help as many needy refugees as possible. That is why, in our 2018 alien initiative, we proposed moving asylum treatment outside Europe. We have discussed this in greater depth earlier this day in the debate on the question. For example, we found that we can help 600,000 of the world's most disadvantaged refugees at the same amount that we spend on helping 10,000 asylum seekers, half of whom are so statistically not eligible for asylum. The rate of recognition in asylum cases in the National Immigration Authority is only 41 per cent. This year. 41% of the people seeking asylum in Denmark this year are therefore refugees; the remaining 59 per cent. are migrants. The same picture will probably show up with the people who stayed in the former Moria camp or Kara Tepe camp in Greece. There are many young asylum seekers, not refugee children, as the authors of the motion for a resolution put it. We have already helped asylum seekers from the burnt-down Moria camp. After the fire, we sent equipment and, as the Minister explained, just under 45 million. kr. to Greece distributed over two rounds to establish housing for the many minors asylum seekers. In the social democracy we want a fairer and more solidarity-based asylum system. We do not want to contribute to the maintenance of the dysfunctional asylum system, which today caters for the most money-intensive, the most physically strong economic migrants and refugees. On the other hand, we are feeding the current dysfunctional and in many ways inhumane asylum system by simply redistributing asylum seekers, many of whom, as we know, are not real asylum seekers, within Europe, and we will not contribute to this by the Social Democrats. Against this background, I can inform you that the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161754	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161759	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now there's a lot of talk about this 40 million. kr. that has been spent on the refugees. However, it is very uncertain whether that money has been spent on the unaccompanied refugee children. Indeed, OLAF, the EU Anti-Fraud Office, is investigating how the Greeks have actually used that money. So that means we've sent some funds that we don't know about hitting these kids. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161838	I think Mrs Susanne Zimmer needs to document this further. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, keeps a hand in the business of sending large amounts of millions of dollars off that they then go for the purpose for which they are earmarked. There is, of course, a dialogue with Greece on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161854	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161855	In other words, what OLAF is doing does not have the confidence of the rapporteur to have its justification. However, to go somewhere else: we have decided that we should receive 500 quota refugees by 2020 and funds have been set aside for that. Where would the money for the last 200, perhaps 300 quota refugees that we have not received be spent? Why couldn't they be used for these kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217161923	It's factually wrong. We have not decided this, and it is clear from the legislation that it is up to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to assess how many people can be accepted in the middle of the year. In my opinion, the Minister has made a sensible assessment here, and the refugees we will receive this year in Denmark come primarily from areas where they are, as far as I remember, mainly Christian refugees. I think that is sensible, and at least in my best judgment it is something that increases the likelihood that some people will be able to integrate and will not be part of the diaspora already here of less integrated refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162001	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162003	Thank you. It is not surprising that the Social Democrat rapporteur thinks the same as the Social Democrat Minister. So that's why I'm gonna try to go a little further on the lead that's about why your party won't pick up these kids. I'm gonna ask sir. Rasmus Stoklund: In Denmark there are 50 families and 100 people in a support network who have said that they want to pay for it, that they want to house them, that is, be foster families for these children. I mean, that's the job of the state. There is no majority in favour of this, but Mr. Rasmus Stoklund could see a model where they said: Okay, now there are so many people who want to take this responsibility privately, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162046	No, I certainly can't see that. It is not up to 50 random families, as Enhedslisten has identified, to conduct Danish immigration policy. So no, I can't see that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162056	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162057	As I said, I also believe that the ideal solution is that it is the Folketing that decides that this is the task of the state. It is not surprising that the Social Democrats do not agree. Then I'd like to ask you something else, like Mr. Rasmus Stoklund mentioned, and this is about the development aid that has been given. If this is a so-called fine contribution, why is it that there is still uncertainty as to whether these tents have even come forward? Then why is it that there are still so many people on Lesbos who have no roof over their heads? Does the Social Democrats not, frankly, think it is a pitiful contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162134	No, I have to say I don't think so. I think it is incredibly nice that we have sent over 24 million in two rounds. kr. to support the efforts of the Greek authorities. We have also sent various other equipment. If there are any logistical challenges about this, Mrs Rosa Lund will have to talk to Greece about it. I am quite confident that the government will deal with this jointly with the Greek authorities. I do not have the mistrust that Mrs Lund often insinuates, and I do not think we have the least to be ashamed of. By the way, I have been informed that the vast majority of the children in the Moria camp have been evacuated to the mainland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162208	Then we move on to Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162218	Thank you. Speaking is thankful when we throw around with millions and billions. I mean, 40 million. kr. is what the Danish defence uses in 1 day; so 1 day we sure can afford. It's magnanimous! It's magnanimous! One day's military spending we can afford or for that matter 4%. of 1 day during the corona crisis 4 per cent. of 1 day during the corona crisis, where we have otherwise provided very, very good for the Danes. Perhaps we could have a little more visions from the old working party than just saying: Well, when it is the Danes, there are no limits, but when it comes to those who are far away from us or those with other skin colors, there are enormous limits. I think, as the Minister said, that every drop counts, and it may seem like a drop in the ocean, but it is after all a drop. There we have to say: we can accept some of them, and any child can, with a proper integration policy, become a resource for a society. And I think that by far, by far, most children who come to the country are a resource for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162321	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162322	I have no doubt that you, sir... Christian Juhl's eyes are all foreigners who may be in the Great Middle East and elsewhere, friends you haven't met yet. I don't share that assessment. When it comes to comparing figures, I believe that it is bound to be absurd to compare the management of a national economy in crisis with a Danish contribution in a humanitarian situation that we must support to the extent that we can. I think this contribution is fine and proportional. To compare it with the management of a corona crisis, I think it is absurd. In addition, I think it is totally untimely to start mixing skin colors into the issue and, finally, I think it is an expression of boundless hypocrisy that, on the left wing of value policy, one tiny group of refugees who happened to be filling a lot on television is constantly so concerned. What about all those refugees who are all sorts of other places in the world who have at least as much, if not more, need help and who have just as much right to attention and humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162425	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162425-2	Now, as a young man, I have been brought up in the social democratic and international part of the movement, where we, among others, have been brought up. Christian Kelm-Hansen and Svend Auken learned something about solidarity. That is why I am trying to appeal to the Socialists, who have so blinded their eyes to the proud tradition of the workers' movement. And there I would say that it is quite appropriate to compare the figures so that you can see how small they really are, so that people are not deceived into thinking: Wow, it's nice to send 40 million. kr. It is not possible to say, just because the task is incalculable, that we should not take anyone in the first place because there are so many refugees. Yes, it is true that there are a great many, but we have to take some of them, and we have to take our share so that the others can see that they have to take theirs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162510	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162511	Well, I don't really know what to say about these rather incoherent considerations. Well, I don't know what it is, sir. Christian Juhl has learned in his youth about Social Democracy, but at least it is badly linked to where Social Democracy is today. Otherwise, I would not be in the Social Democratic Party myself, and I am incredibly glad that I feel comfortable in the party, in relation to where we have been in the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162543	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162543-2	I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the miserable nature of these issues, among others. children live in the areas we are talking about here: that it is a matter of living in wretched tents, that the tents are torn apart by storms, and that it is really cold at the moment, which really is a great burden for many of the people and children who are literally walking around in water to the knees of muddy roads in the camps. Is the rapporteur aware that we are really talking about such a miserable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162620	Yes, and I have to say that I am infinitely a little impressed by many of these pathos-laden, patronizing, moralizing, self-iscene speeches and admonitions that I am exposed to by people on the left wing of value policy. There's no one in this Parliament who doesn't think it's awful when there's little kids suffering. We do not have a patent for this because we are pursuing an incoherent policy and a policy that focuses on people who have been on television. The government spent 750 million last year. kr. more on development aid than the previous year. I think that, as the Minister has well explained, it has helped incredibly many people, because we can help so much more when we spend money in the world instead of spending it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162711	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162712	When the rapporteur is aware of the miserable circumstances which, among other things, have arisen. children are living in Europe, on our own continent, what more is needed so that the rapporteur thinks that Denmark should take responsibility and relieve and help children who are really in need?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162731	Perhaps my problem is that I am also aware of children living in miserable conditions in the Sahel region and Honduras and in Bangladesh and many other places in the world, and if we were to follow Mr. Kristian Hegaard's logic, there was no limit to how many millions of children we had to pick up for Denmark and then accept family reunification for. I do not know how it is physically possible to have so many people in Denmark and how it should be financially linked, and that is probably also minor, because it is probably not about that. This is probably about symbol politics, and that must be the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162808	It's Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162810	So it is not symbolic politics to want to help 300 people. But since the Social Democratic Party will not support the fact that we are helping these 300 children to Denmark, could one consider that in those municipalities where you actually want to help, and where there are also social democrats who want to help, you give them the opportunity to do so, so that you can accept a number? So the municipalities that have explicitly said that they want to help can be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162839-2	No, we certainly can't consider that. It would then be totally irresponsible to outsource foreign policy to random municipalities, and I would also say that if there are any municipalities which are so uncommonly capable of integrating foreigners, they are very welcome to approach me. Well, I'm sitting in the back row and I have plenty of time, and I'd love to hear about the experience, because then it's getting them widespread. I also think that they should organise some meetings under the auspices of the KL, because we must have it widely. Integration in Denmark is not going very well. Yesterday the annual publication of Danmarks Statistik was published • Immigrants in Denmark 2020 • and so, read the summary and see how bad things are going on. There is no indication that there is such a whole lot of sunshine stories waiting out there, and therefore this is of course not something to be outsourced to municipalities either. I would also like to say that some of those who have now been busy writing letters in the Politiken about how many refugees they could accept without problems, from among other things. municipalities, i.e. council members, etc., could start by addressing the National Council at the beginning of the year each year when there is an opportunity to register and say that your municipality would like to have more. My acquaintance, the Foreign Affairs Agency doesn't usually get any letters, but, you know, you can just do that. You don't have to write it in Politiken at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162946	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217162948	Thank you. From a bourgeois perspective, of course, it is a shame to have a good politician on the left who, in the way the rapporteur is doing here, stands firm on his opinions and has the courage to go against the extreme left, including the Radical Left, who is taking such a lead on something that is heartbreaking, but which has long-term consequences that are just completely irresponsible to close their eyes. On behalf of Denmark, I can hope that the rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party will have the influence that the rapporteur deserves. And that's basically why I'm taking the floor. Thank you for the courage of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163034	Thank you very much for your kind words, and I would like to say for the record that I think it is very important to have broad cooperation in the Folketing on these issues. And that is why I am glad that there has been no block policy in foreign policy. I think it is absolutely crucial, and I also think it is essential to put an end to the myth that has sometimes existed, that in parts of what I call the left in terms of value policy, one such kind of patent on humanism. I do not accept that paragraph in any way, and therefore I also believe that although some people will immediately write on Twitter and interpret it as meaning that when I get praise from, for example, Mr President. Mrs Pernille Vermund, then I have a kiss of death, and what I know is that I think it is only a healthy expression that we deal with these issues widely in the Folketing and across the blue and red bloc, and that fortunately we are some parties that do not define our line according to what is just on television at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163134	Mrs Pernille Vermund wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163137	Perhaps the rapporteur can welcome the fact that, after all, the kiss of death on the left is not as heavy as everything else we hear in the MeToo case about hand on the thigh and what else is. So calm: A kiss of death from New Citizens is not the worst thing that can happen, probably not to the extreme left either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163157	No, I think that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163202	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we are now moving on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163225	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, let me say that the crisis in, for example, the Gulf crisis. The Moria camp on the Greek island of Lesbos is a crisis which, frankly, actually affects me deeply. This is a crisis in which we are talking about thousands of refugees and migrants, including children, who have lost their temporary homes and security as a result of the very sad situation that arose after the burndown in the Moria camp. Here it is especially the children for whom I and my party feel a deep empathy, for they are completely innocent in this crisis. Nevertheless, many children have come to these camps with their parents through grotesque and deeply criminal traffickers who send children and parents on a dangerous and uncertain journey across the Mediterranean. It is a very serious situation and it also arouses feelings, and it also calls for political action. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that this is a terrible situation for the children in these camps. So the situation is, of course, about how we help them as best we can, and this is where we do not agree. The Left will not pursue a policy in which smugglers can continue their illegal activities while we keep the clouds closed. Traffickers must not pave the way to Europe, as they are unfortunately doing today for thousands of illegal immigrants. If Denmark and our European neighbours choose to pick up the children, for example. The Moria camp for the country, we run the risk of many more migratory flows to Denmark and to other European countries. Although the number of refugees and migrants who have arrived in Europe has decreased since the mass population of refugees in 2015 and 2016, and fortunately for that, we have to note that many families are still leaving on dangerous and unsafe journeys that can cost lives. In addition, many who reach Europe do not have a real need for protection at all. For the Left, the protection of refugees is a temporary situation until the refugee in question can return to his country of origin. The only problem is that many of these so-called refugees, for example. The Moria camp isn't refugees at all. They are migrants seeking Europe in the hope of a better life and more opportunities. They cannot be thought of in this way, but, nevertheless, protection must apply only to those who really need it. For this means that in the end they will be refused asylum and must be forced to return home again, and they must also do so while disgusting and greedy smugglers are left to reap the profits. We in the Left do not think that is the way it should be. Therefore, the best solution is not to bring the children to Denmark, on the contrary: we must help the children and their families in the local area in which they are already located. We therefore believe that the government must continue to make strong efforts towards those refugees and migrants who need protection in the outermost regions. This means that better facilities must be created for all the innocent children who have ended up in this terrible situation. The Left's assessment is therefore that the most effective way to help is to send the necessary financial support to the neighbourhoods and camps to the borders of Europe. As announced by the Government at a press conference on 10 September, it offers a further 24.4 million. kr. This is a clear proof of the fact that action is being taken. Together with the April grant, Denmark has contributed 45 million. kr. to Greece. Together, the two funds go to secure settlements for some 4,000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children. In the Left, therefore, we believe that with targeted help and financial support in the local areas, as many unaccompanied children as possible provide the necessary temporary help and a roof over their heads. In the light of this, the Left will vote against the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163642	Thank you for the floor. Refugees and refugee children must be helped. It's important. They must be helped in the areas where they are and they should not be helped by being taken to Denmark. We have already heard that from several quarters, after all, is a wrong way of helping. It is costly for Denmark, it destroys the country, and it makes it possible for us to help fewer refugees than if we help them in what we call the neighbourhood. So, of course, we need to help in the neighbourhoods. If we start taking refugee children to Denmark, we will support a business model for traffickers, a business model where it is precisely best to have children smuggled out, and that means that we will then ensure that small children are put in dangerous rubber boats on the way across the Mediterranean. It would be immoral to pursue the kind of sentimentality policy in which the Left and the Radical Left are specialists. So, of course, we should not do that. Of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution, and we are tired of constantly having to take a stand on these proposals which are intended to flash the alleged neighbourly love of the left-wing parties, but which, in fact, will cause more children to drown in the Mediterranean and will help fewer people in this world against hunger and war, and what else is bad. After all, we have a government right now, which, thank God, is trying to pursue a more rigorous foreign policy than the Social Democracy has done in the past. But we also know that the Social Democratic Party is under heavy pressure from the Left and from the Radical Left; from its own supporting parties. And what is really worrying is if the Social Democrats start to give in and abandon the strict immigration policy. So we hope that doesn't happen. However, we have seen with concern how several municipalities have approached the Minister and these are municipalities with Social Democratic mayors and with Social Democratic mayor signatures on the letters that you can take refugee children in exactly their municipalities. This seems to us to be a slippery plan without even and, as I said, extremely worrying when it comes from a party which is at least trying to market itself as an alien political tighter party. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163953	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217163956	I think I just wanted to say that I think it is very harsh and unpleasant that you should be told that you are making this proposal because you want to flash your alleged neighbourly love. I think that was the rapporteur's choice of words. It is very violent to be told, and I really think it is rather irresponsible. The Danish People's Party should recognise that when we make this proposal, it is obvious because we think that it is a deeply unhappy situation for these children and that we believe that the best way for Denmark to help is to accept them. The Danish People's Party disagrees so much with the view that is fair enough, but I think it is rather despicable that such things are said from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament about parties which, as such, simply have an intention to help some very vulnerable people. That is actually just what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164051	But I can then tell you that if it is not to flash your own alleged neighbourly love, then it is at least subversive for both the country and for the refugees themselves. For a great many of the refugees who have come here over the years have not been able to integrate and do not necessarily live a happy life coming here. In addition, as I said, there are more people who will embark on the migration routes, and above all children. So the policy pursued by the SF will lead to the drowning of more unhappy poor children from Africa. That's not neighborly. That's not very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164133	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164134	No, this won't be subversive to the refugees themselves. It will be a huge help to those people who are given the opportunity to start a new life here in the country. In addition, it is quite obvious that the SF wants to combat trafficking in human beings, and that is also why we want to see radical reforms of the dysfunctional asylum system that we have. It just doesn't help these kids. This is a long-term objective, which is why I think it is obvious that you can walk on two legs, in other words that you can both help these people in an extremely vulnerable situation and, at the same time, fight to reform the asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164207	There is every reason to help children who are having a hard time, and I certainly think you should do that, but you just shouldn't just help the children who have been on TV and who sentimental Danes therefore suddenly get an idea of going to Denmark. For it is no help to them, it is no help to Denmark. There are quite other things that need to be done if you want to help people, and that, of course, is to send help to them where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164236	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164238	Well, it's just a service message. I would just like to reassure Mrs Krarup that the line taken by the Social Democratic Party on this issue is absolutely clear. And it is not open for debate. It was also such a more general foreign policy guarantee that I sensed Mrs Krarup wanted. Our line is clear: we are at the target of the paradigm shift, which we have helped to adopt. And when it comes to central rules on citizenship, rules on permanent residence, etc., we stand at the goal of it. On top of that, the Minister has announced negotiations over the next few months on citizenship rights, and they want a direction that does not go against any more relaxed rules. So it was just a service message and a warranty... no question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164324	Thank you. But perhaps I think that the guarantee is a little untimely, because it is not true that the Social Democratic Party is watching over the paradigm shift. Because this has already been pierced by different legislation that allows people to stay; people should not necessarily be sent home now, as the paradigm shift was about. So that's not true. In addition, I will only be quite confident about the line taken by the Social Democratic Party when the people who have signed the letters sent to the Minister have been relaxed into the SF or another party, because it is disturbing for us others to see that such prominent social democrats may have a position that appears to cross the government in a direction that we are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164414	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164415	Well, quite a few Social Democrats have now expressed that position. And we are a broad party, where the ceiling is relatively high, although you can have some private opinions that are not necessarily the line that is then taken at Christiansborg. They are municipal politicians and community-enthusiastic people, and they are thus in their right to do so as long as they accept that the final line that counts is laid here. In relation to the issue of repatriations, I would say that this is a very big focus, and that is why the Return Travel Act is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164454	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164455	It may well be that you have a great deal of emphasis on repatriation, but you have just adopted legislation here in Things, which undermines the return policy, because it has now become possible for people who have employment to stay here. And it was not intended; it was the purpose of the paradigm shift that people who were here temporarily should go home, no matter what, whenever possible. Now they can suddenly be allowed to stay. In this way, then, the Social Democrats do not live up to their rhetoric of maintaining the paradigm shift and a strict foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164532	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164533	Mrs Marie Krarup is tired of being presented with this kind of proposal time and time again. I am listening quietly when the Danish People's Party repeatedly makes proposals that are directly opposed, but that is now the conditions of democracy, Mrs Krarup. That's the way it is. You have the right to put forward the proposals you think fit with your policy. There I would like to address one thing: if not 300 children are going to Denmark, and that is a problem for the right and also for the Socialist rapporteur, then I would just like to say that I would like to take you at the floor when it comes to helping them where they are. When the refugee camps, whether in Greece, Italy, Jordan or Kenya, where I have visited part of them myself or where it is, cannot even perform 40%, 60%. Of what the UN says is a minimum, it is not time for the Danish People's Party to turn around and say: then we have to deliver out there where the refugee camps are; then we really have to deliver more than 40 million. kr. to Greece?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164645	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164646	Well, the Danish People's Party has not been opposed to helping in the neighbourhood; we have thought this was a good idea. But helping or helping in the eyes of the goose in a way that causes more poor children to drown in the Mediterranean seems to me to be quite immoral, and that is what it will lead to if they are migrant children, because then they will become a spearhead for a migrant army, for a migration from the South to the North, which is already underway, and at the same time will undermine security, wealth, etc. in Denmark, as we have seen in the last 40-50 years, when immigration policy has changed our country completely decisively, something for which this generation of Danes will be criticised in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164738	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164739	I just want to say that the fact that just one child comes to Denmark, to a good family and gets an education and a job will be a gain for us, and that will be a concrete contribution to the situation there is. There's no way to talk about it. The Danish People's Party and the rest of the bourgeois people have voted against increasing development aid time and time again, so it is not true that you want to help ensure that there are proper conditions where people live and live, so that we can prevent the flow of refugees from around the world. You don't want to. After all, you did not vote in favour when we proposed that development aid should be increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164816	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164817	I do not know under what stone the rapporteur has been in the last 40 years. Has it not been noticed that this issue of refugees becoming a gain for Denmark and Danish society has not succeeded? That is simply not true. It has created more crime, higher costs, greater insecurity, a lack of cohesion, cultural conflicts. It's been an accident, and 300 extras will cause more misfortune.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164853	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164857	Thank you. I have to respond to the gross generalisation of refugees, that is, that they do not want to work and that they do not want to integrate. Our health services would fall apart completely if all the so-su assistants who come with other ethnic backgrounds were not there. Personally, I know a great many refugees who really want to work and who have also got a job, both in the services sector and in agriculture. It would also be very bad if we didn't have them. And then there are statistics that show that integration is just progressing. More and more people are taking education. More and more people are going to work in general. So I do not know exactly what the rapporteur is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217164936	I am referring to something like this. Danmarks Statistik, and then I refer to the reality you meet on the streets. And then I did not say that refugees and immigrants will not integrate, but I said that integration has failed completely. There are probably some who, overall and theoretically, would like to, but who simply cannot, because when you bring some other values into your luggage, it can actually be impossible, even if you may theoretically want to, because how can you take over Christian, free, democratic values when you are the bearer of Islamic totalitarian values? It's very, very difficult. How can you raise your children in Danish freedom of spirit if you bring with you a belief that the most important thing in life is Sharia? You can't do that. So even if the person theoretically says he wants to, he cannot, and that is what he should have known, and that is what he was warned of over and over again, but he was not listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165044	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165045	Thank you. I assume that the rapporteur does not know any refugee families or that the rapporteur is living under a stone, as has been said about others. Because this is actually the case in the refugee families I know, and it is many, as I said, that family values really have a high priority. You take care, for example. Very well on his elderly in the families. But to return to what this is all about: these 300 children, 300 children need help. It is true that there are many other places where children also need help, but these are on European soil. So why on earth should we not help them to come up here and become good citizens of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165127	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165128	They are on European soil and they have been very much on television. We should not take them to Denmark, because then there will be more moving children who will be put into the boats and drown. That is a very important reason. Another important reason is that they will bring their parents here at some point. This will contribute to immigration, which has created insecurity in Denmark. And if the rapporteur is not aware of the sad integration statistics that we have in Denmark, then I would really like to ask him to familiarize himself with them. I myself have acquaintances, there are refugees, yes, and there is a very, very big difference. There are some who can, and unfortunately the majority cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165209	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165210	Thank you. I would just like to repeat my question to the Minister, because Mrs Krarup is also saying that taking unaccompanied refugee children will mean that it will be a spearhead, as I think the rapporteur said for other refugees. Then I'll just ask Mrs. Marie Krarup if she has any evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165236	I'll start by translating. Evidence means proof, and it is a little difficult to have when it comes to such things here, because when it comes to social sciences, one cannot actually do experiments where one can get scientific evidence for one thing or another. What we have seen, however, is that refugees, when asked why they are going to one place or another, very often mention the possibility of coming to certain countries, as to what conditions are there, as to family reunification, etc. So you can see that refugees have a lot of other motives, i.e. some pull motifs. And this suggests that experience shows that you find out what the situation is and therefore direct your way to where you are likely to go. Therefore, as soon as it becomes clear that children are taken from the Moria camp, there will of course be more there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165350	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165352	So it is guesswork Mrs Marie Krarup brings from the platform; I thought it was really nice that we got confirmation. I'd like to make another offer. When you conduct a very, very strict immigration policy in a situation where there are 80 million people fleeing, I think it is water on the mill of smugglers, because then they have precisely a reason to go to a smuggler to get away from the situation they are in. Instead, we should use the United Nations quota refugee system much more than we do today and take 300 unaccompanied refugee children from Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165430	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165432	After all, I myself have been on many journeys where we have talked to refugees who have been stopped, or migrants who have been stopped on migratory routes. And I have talked to migrants here in Denmark and asked them why they have come, and they mention this with the different conditions in the different countries. So there is clearly evidence that it has a significance in these situations, and from there one can generalize that there are very, very strong indications that of course it will have a meaning; that of course there will be more when it is rumored that there is a possibility that one can stay in a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165513	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165515	Thank you. I just have to say, because I think I have to make it clear that immigration has brought nothing positive to Denmark. Each foreigner's immigration is a different context, but immigration as such has brought nothing positive, on the contrary. But it was something else that made me speak. When I came down here, I heard Mr. Carl Valentin's outrage at Mrs Marie Krarup's statements about why this proposal was put forward. I sat in my office and heard Mr. Christian Juhl refers to the fact that it had something to do with colors, and I have to say that such a thing really offends me. I just want to hear Mrs Krarup's position. I was glad that Rasmus Stoklund distanced himself from it. This was not the case in the past, but it has now become the case and fortunately for it. I thought it was ancient times; I really thought it was ancient times. I can get as angry as Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl, I can see, sometimes is when I hear something like this from the Danish Parliament's rapporteur. It doesn't look like anything, and I just want to hear from Mrs. Marie Krarup if it doesn't give her such a little giggle when she hears that it's because they have a different skin color. I'm not just gonna get mad, I'm actually gonna get mad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165623	Thank you for your comment. Yes, I think it is below the limits when it is claimed that the criticism of foreign policy has anything to do with skin colour or racism. That's absurd. Where the main problem is, of course, in the clash of cultures; it is, of course, that when people come with a different cultural background here it is the religious background that is crucial that it is difficult or very difficult and too many completely impossible to integrate, because some of our values go completely across Islamic values. Then it is almost impossible to conform to a society when you actually have to consistently raise your children to do something that you think is wrong. It is a very high demand to make of people and, above all, if you cannot say quite clearly that this is actually what we demand of people. They have not been explained because they have also been very soft in their integration policy. So there has been an accident in that area, but it has nothing to do with skin color.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165727	Does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard have a further question? No. Then we thank Mrs Krarup. Marie Krarup I'll just wipe off here). Yeah. Thank you so much. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217165803	Thank you for the floor, President. Over the last few days, my mail inbox has been bulgingly full, and I know that it also applies to many others in here. Some will say that of course we generally get many mails every day, but in recent days we have received particularly many emails from people about this case • mails for hundreds, I think I have spoken to it where it is strongly encouraged that Denmark should of course help and welcome 300 children from Moria. Thank you very much for your e-mails and calls. For the Radical Left, we agree: we must take up 300 of Europe's most vulnerable children, and I can guarantee to Mrs Krarup and others that no matter how tired you become, we will continue to repeat it over and over again on the part of the Radical Left. Because we need to help Europe's most vulnerable children... we need to relieve Greece. About 7,000 people live in the new Kara Tepe camp at Lesbos. About 40%. of them are children, and a large part of the many who have sent us some encouraging e-mails have detailed knowledge of the details of the area. People live in wretched tents in Kara Tepe camp, the tents break when there are storms as there are these days, and the tents are not isolated, so people freeze, and the cold goes through the marrow and legs. This also means that you get water into the tents, and children walk around in water to the knees of the muddy roads in the camp. Can we really be familiar? People freeze and are scared. There is lockdown in camp, which means that people have to get out of camp 4 hours a week. It's less than the most wretched prisons we know in Denmark. The rest of the time they're trapped in these camps, and Doctors Without Borders report that if we don't help the kids now, they're risking permanent depression. So let us help the Prime Minister to be the prime minister of the children for the most vulnerable children in Europe at the moment. A host of other EU countries have already decided that they are taking some of the children into their hands, and if they can help in the Norwegian centre-right government and in the German conservative government, we can also help children in need in Denmark. Because even though Denmark is a small country, we can show a big mind. We can be the big ones and help the little ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170111	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170125	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. I am sure that the rapporteur is aware of the Palestinian Act of 1992, which gave approximately 300 predominantly young Palestinians residence permits in Denmark. There's just been an inventory of what happened to the 300 or so people. In 2019 there were still 270 of them living in Denmark. Of the 270, 204 have received a verdict, 176 out of the 270 are on public support, and the vast majority have been granted early retirement. What makes the rapporteur even think that something would prevent history from repeating itself and that it would be a disaster if we were to do virtually the same thing again and bring 300 people to Denmark and give them permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170222	That is why we need to take action now. That is a good argument for taking action right now, because the longer children experience terrible and totally disastrous conditions in these camps, the more depressive and the more physically and mentally challenged they become. So by helping now and by putting in now we can, among other things. prevent the kind of damage that I can hear, sir. Marcus Knuth cares.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170247	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170248	What the rapporteur is saying here is simply not realistic. This is just one example, but we see over and over again, regardless of how many we bring here, that integration is going to fail, and we also see that integration in the second and even in the third generation is completely failed. How can the rapporteur even believe that this will not happen again if it is the case that we are getting 300 for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170315	It is absolutely true that we must, of course, take action and improve integration. We must improve the opportunities for Danish education, education and employment when people come to Denmark. We can do this by taking 300 children from the Moria camp to Denmark, and we believe that this can be done easily if you help the area that is most exposed, reach out an extended hand to them and make a determined effort when they come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170346	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Well, then I'll see if Mr. Knox... Carl Valentin wants the floor now or will wait until the end. He wants it now, good. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170405	Thank you. I was told I could split up my time, so I have 5 minutes now and 5 minutes at the end. President. - The debate is closed. It's gonna be nodded. Thank you. While the government has slowed down, reality has in some ways overtaken at least some of the comments on this proposal. At any rate, we now know that many of the unaccompanied refugee children in the Moria camp and later Kara Tepe camp have thus been picked up and have been temporarily re-inhabited by the European coalition of countries that entered into and took responsibility. This means that while Denmark has looked the other way, others have solved the problems or what? No, of course not. There are still plenty of children in Kara Tepe camp, and in the refugee organisations we can hear that many unaccompanied people have disappeared and are now living a life in Athenian railway stations, out of the system. At the same time, we must ask ourselves whether it is really Denmark's ambition in terms of international solidarity that we should turn our necks and bet on others to pick up the bill. I know that the political climate does not just require international responsibility, to reach beyond the borders of the European Union and to stand by its commitments, but what makes me so sorry about this particular case is that this is a European ally in trouble. So when I was a captain, there was an idea of a united Europe. Brexit has certainly opened up the ideal, but it is still embarrassing that Denmark should be in the club of countries that provide an absolute minimum to help Greece. Norway has chosen to accept refugee children from Moria, Germany has chosen to accept refugee children from Moria. In fact, more than ten European countries have chosen to welcome refugee children from Moria. So tell me, what is the argument that we cannot receive 300 children fleeing from war and conflict? We have already heard the Government's response: you would rather help locally in the neighbourhoods. The government has done this by sending blankets, tents and money to the Greek Government, but how has the government ensured that these funds reach the camp? We can only hope that the Greek Government will do so. 40% of the approx. 7,500 people staying in the new camp are children under the age of 18. In other words, it is up to 3 000 refugee children that we are offering these conditions. Today, the government wants to excuse itself with incentives in relation to traffickers, and it has done so to a great extent, and it has done so before, and these are arguments with which the SF on the surface is in fact entirely in agreement. The refugee system is twisted and unfair, and it calls for reform, but the infinitely small group of hungry, frozen children we should have taken in order to show international responsibility do not overturn incentives or create traffickers. That is why I would like to make an appeal to all parties of the Folketing: SF is ready to engage in constructive talks on a new asylum system, but should we not agree that those ambitions will not be the excuse for not entering into current crises like this? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170744	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170749	Now I just asked Mr. Kristian Hegaard, why we have to bring 300 people here when we did exactly the same thing in 1992 and we can see that out of the approx. There are 270 still living in Denmark, of which there is massive over-representation of crime, public support and early retirement. What is the rapporteur's position on this? What is it that should make the past different from the present?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170817	We have to help these children because they are in a deeply unhappy situation and need our protection. It is true that there are integration problems, and we must do what we can to combat them, and in everyday life SF is also involved in that work, but that does not mean that just because there are some integration problems, we must completely renounce international responsibility. These are some people who are in an acute crisis and who need our protection, and of course we must be able to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170844	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170845	So you think it would be very good for Denmark and the Danes to bring 300 people here with the realization that if history has at least been something we can learn from, then a massive majority of them will end up in crime and maybe violence in the Danish streets, burglary, drug crime and contribute to an already completely failed integration. Is this the right way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170909	No. We must ensure that these people do not, as far as possible, end up as criminals, and we can do that by providing them with a safer upbringing. I believe that the upbringing that many of these completely unhappy children will experience if they survive at all will mean that they are very likely to become criminals, for example, and we can thus reduce the risk that they will also end up as criminals by taking them to a safe country and giving them a safe upbringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170936	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217170939	Thank you. It's touching with these almost the girl with the sulfur sticks--like pictures, like Mr. Thompson. Carl Valentin is able to conjure up. But sir... Carl Valentin does not see that it may seem a bit hypocritical that you have this very precise look for some, Mr. Apparently, Carl Valentin has been watching a lot on television lately, while he does not say at all that there are almost a million rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, or that there are 300,000 internally displaced persons in Central America, or that there are 2 million displaced persons followed by militias and everything else in the Sahel region, or all the people who have fled from South Sudan to other neighbouring countries to seek protection, many of whom, and not least the children, are at least as badly or even worse than those who Mr. Carl Valentin has now focused on because they have been mostly on television? Well, what kind of a way to focus so unilaterally on one small corner instead of taking a broad perspective? Well, it seems to me a little bit provincial. Will Mr. Carl Valentin confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171042	Do I want to confirm that it's provincial to want to help these people? No, I don't want to confirm that. I think it's condescending to start talking about the girl with the brimstones and stuff. Yeah, I'll use some adjectives about this. Yeah, I'm talking about the terrible situation these people are in. I do because it's children who suffer. This is serious! And it's true that there are many other people in the world who are having a hard time. I'm totally into that and that there are many other places you can help. But now we are faced with an acute situation in a European country where many other countries also take responsibility. We can help there. We cannot help the whole world; I fully agree with that. We cannot take all people to Denmark, and that is not what we are proposing. We propose to bring a small number of people here in a crisis situation. And I think it is also strange that we should be deligitimed because we are using some adjectives on this, because this is a serious situation. Nor can it be that the speaking chair of the Folketing cannot be allowed to speak honestly about how violent a situation there is for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171146	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171147	Sir. Carl Valentin must say whatever he wants in the context of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not gonna interfere with that at all. I just think that there is something hypocritical about using it to create such images that one is opposed to those parties that do not support this, in my opinion, completely ill-thought-out motion for a resolution ^ as if one were to represent some particular form of humanism or magnanimity or look at how sorry it is for these people, because nobody doubts that. No one doesn't feel sorry for children who suffer. There are no parties in the Folketing that do not. But the question is: how can we help as many people as possible and do something for more than them, sir? Carl Valentin just turned his attention on 'cause he's been watching 'em on TV lately?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171228	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171229	It's not like they've been on TV. I think that is also an irresponsible attack. And then I have to say quite frankly: it is actually my experience that there is a difference between the extent to which the parties here in the Folketing have a desire to help people fleeing war. I'm afraid there's a difference. Unfortunately, there are parties in the Danish Parliament who do not pay much attention to this, and who are also not willing to raise foreign aid and help in the neighbourhood in this way, for example. So yes, I think it's quite fair to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171303	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171305	I think it is very honest and courageous that Mr. Carl Valentin says there's a difference between who's gonna help out here and how. Because that's absolutely right. The Socialist People's Party wants to keep its hands on trafficking in human beings. The rest of us say that we simply do not have a conscience for that. It's a very real analysis to come up with here. What I would like to hear a little further about is the display of hypocrisy that we heard from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund was very apt in relation to Mr. Carl Valentin. I mean, what is it that makes these kids, besides everyone, I think, have a bleeding heart for them, have been more in the media spotlight? What makes them more justified than, for example, the humanist embrace of the Socialist People's Party? children in Central America or the Sahel region or Somalia, or whatever it may be? What is it that makes these just need to be taken out and given special treatment? I thought that the Socialist People's Party was such an internationalist, universally oriented party where no one should take precedence over others. But maybe it's because you have to bask in their misery rather than those of others?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171411	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171413	We are an internationalist party, but we are, in fact, also a European party that is very concerned when there is a European country that is under extreme pressure, and that is Greece right now. We do not think that children can be offered the conditions they have experienced here. So we are also very positive about if the government is now willing to help some other children. If the government now said that precisely these children do not want to help, on the other hand they want to increase the number of quota refugees, then we would be very happy. For it is also some people who really need help. However, we think it is fair enough to address this specific situation in a European country with a situation that is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171455	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171457	But these are not European children. So it's weird to use that argument. Greece is a European country, and we in the Danish People's Party would very much like to assist the Greeks in guarding their borders and ensuring that the people who enter illegally can be sent back in a proper manner. But that's not what you socialists are up to here. This is another approach which says that children who have come to Greece from Afghanistan or where these children now come from must have privileged access to Danish aid, privileged in front of children who are miserable in Africa, Central America and so on. Why do they have to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171532	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171533	There are many children in this world who have a terrible life, and there is a lot we can do to improve our refugee system, and that is what we are fighting for. There is no doubt that our asylum system is dysfunctional and that there needs to be some fundamental reforms. But while we are working for it, we can easily help in an emergency situation that we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171555	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171557	Thank you. Is it the SF's view that it is more important to help 300 children who are in a safe country where there is no war than it is to help 300 children in unsafe areas, in countries where there is war, and where we can of course help far more for the funds we allocate and perhaps even 3 000 for what it would cost to help the 300 proposed by the SF and which we would like to have in Denmark and which are already in a safe country? In other words, is it more important to help children who are already in a safe country than to help ten times as many in the neighbourhood who have fled from war near?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171640	No, as such, it is not more important. We would like to help more in the neighbourhoods. That is also why we have been fighting for many years to increase development aid. There are other parties that have not been willing to do so, and we are very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171651	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171652	Even if you are a folk socialist, you have to admit that the money cannot be spent more than once. That is why it must also be the case that when you propose to spend the money on precisely these 300 children who are already in a safe country there is no war in Greece, then children have been chosen elsewhere, for example the 3 000 children in the neighbourhood, who could be helped if we helped them there for the funds you are willing to devote to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171727	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171728	Now, of course, this is also about Greece not having to carry out the whole task, so that Greece is in an extremely stressful situation, and that they also need help in this situation, where they need to integrate a whole lot of people, to take care of a lot of people. We would also like to contribute to this and help to meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171747	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We can move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217171759	Since the Moria refugee camp at Lesbos burned, there are a lot of people who are in a completely terrible situation, which they were actually in before the camp burned. I think that both in today's debate, in the last debate and in the whole of the debate, there are some very strange arguments as to why we should not pick up 300 refugee children. The first argument is that it is better to help with the reconstruction of the Moria camp, and we have already given money for this. Funny enough, no one knows where this money has ended. That is not enough either. This is a camp where more than 13 000 people lived. Then you send some tents. It's like a tailor in hell. That's not enough. Besides, we don't know where those tents ended up. What we know, however, is that the Greek authorities are keeping people on the Greek islands. They're not coming to the mainland. The Greek authorities also prevent NGOs from helping the Greek islands. So that is not an argument, I think, that we have helped with reconstruction. I just don't think it is. The second argument that we have also discussed today is, after all, about trafficking in human beings. That it would open up for human trafficking to pick up 300 kids from Lesbos, I'm not buying. What makes trafficking in human beings impossible is that it is absolutely impossible to get to Europe if you come from a country where there is war, where you are persecuted, where there is a climate disaster. I think that's what's doing it. What does this is is that the United Nations quota system has been eroded, and we ourselves have been involved in this because we have decided to take only 200 quota refugees, which I cannot understand in a situation where so many people are fleeing the world. There are more than 80 million people on the run in the world, and what does Denmark do? We'll take 200 quota refugees. That's why the human smugglers have crowned days. This has nothing to do with these kids at Lesbos. The third argument I think I have heard is that the solution is a better asylum system in the European Union. I fully agree with that. I think we have a very uneven distribution of refugees in Europe. It is, of course, the case that southern Europe raises the greater part of the burden. Here in Northern Europe, we are not making much promises. Let's get a better distribution. I fully agree with that. These kids just don't have time to wait for that. A new asylum system is progressing rather slowly, and we can stand here and be frustrated about that, but it just doesn't help these children. Then I have also heard the argument that we in this country have taken our share of refugees and that we cannot take any more. I do not think that is the case either, because, as the Minister said earlier, the number of asylum seekers in Denmark is low. It is even so low that we have closed asylum centres. I think that is an argument for us to have room, that we can afford to take more refugees. I have also heard the argument about the integration task. I have to say that we have seen there, as has also been the case in today's debate, that there are some mayors who have stood up and said: we want to take on that integration task. We would like that, we have room for these children, we have the resources to help with the integration task. I think you should listen to that. How nice it is that there are some who recognise that when you take refugees to Denmark, there is an integration task. It is even more wonderful that there are some who would like to help solve it. I just think we should accept that. Then there is also the argument that we have heard today, particularly from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund of the Social Democratic Party that we cannot only help the people who have been on television. I'll just have to say that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, I fully agree. That is actually one of the things we usually say in the Enhedslisten: let us not only help those who have been on television. Let us also help the others. Well, I don't think I should be looking at Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund's comments as an invitation to help some more refugee children around the world and not just those at Lesbos. But if it was, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, then Enhedslisten will be happy to come. I think we can only support this motion for a resolution that we are debating today. At least we do that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172307	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172311	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Lund for her fine words. I noticed some of the numbers. There are 80 million refugees in the world. I think that sounds quite right and in line with the figures I also come across when I read UN statements and the like. But then I think that Mrs Rosa Lund said: and we can take 200. I do not know whether Mrs Lund is aware that we also accept relatively many asylum seekers, half of whom do not turn out to be eligible for asylum because they come on their own. It is not the case that we only receive quota refugees in Denmark. In fact, there are a lot of people who just troops up in Denmark and say: Asylum. And then they get to stay here, and then they get accommodated. We're spending $300,000. a year on them, including all those who are not eligible for asylum. It's just to get it in. So I have a question: if it were for the Enhedslisten, how many quota refugees would you take if you could make some kind of figure for how many people you could invite to Denmark? If we just say 50,000 people for fun. That's as many as there are in Fredericia. Maybe it could be something on that layer. What about number one? 50,001, in case it was 50,000, Mrs. Rosa Lund would say? How about number one? 50,001? What was he or she supposed to do? Did he have to take care of himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172420	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172421	Thank you for that and thank you for the question, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. What I said or at least tried to say was that Denmark has taken 200 quota refugees. I understand that there are other people seeking asylum in Denmark, and that figure, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund is also historically low today. So 200 quota refugees are concerned here. Then Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, what Enhedslisten would suggest, if we could decide and how it would be nice. We would then propose that Denmark take 2 000 quota refugees through the United Nations quota refugee system. What about number one? 2,001? That's a very good question, but now Mr. Rasmus Stoklund told me to put a specific figure on it, so I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172501	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172502	Thank you for that specific figure. I think that is interesting, because then I am sure that you will be able to find someone very quickly, for example. be some parties not yet set up to outbid, and then they would probably say: 3,000. And then others would be able to say, but what about no. 3,001? Nevertheless, how would Mrs Rosa Lund argue that No. 2.001 did not have as much need for protection as no. 1,892 or No 1,720? What's the logic of this? Why is this narrow focus on a figure here in Denmark instead of spreading the effort and, for example, helping far more people in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172543	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172545	It is quite true that the Enhedslisten can make a figure, and then there are some others who can make another figure, but I am here representing the policy of the Enhedslisten and we are proposing 2 000 quota refugees. And then it depends on what protection you need. I believe, and we believe in the Enhedslisten, that we must live up to the Refugee Convention, and that means that everyone who comes to Denmark and wants to have their asylum application examined should have it. I think they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172613	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172616	There are probably hundreds of thousands of people out there who meet with cheer if only to be able to stay in Denmark during the period when Mrs Rosa Lund thinks their case should be dealt with. That would certainly be a wonderful contribution to an otherwise sad everyday life in their home countries. What I really want to ask is a little in relation to supply and demand mechanisms, which I know Enhedslisten has historically had a little difficulty in incorporating. However, Mrs Lund said that it would not affect traffickers if we took these refugee children and refugees in general to Denmark. And I would just like to ask whether Mrs Lund does not agree that if no one wants to be brought into Europe, then there will be no grounds for running a business as a smuggler of human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172707	Yeah, that's right, but to stop that demand, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, we have to stop all famines, all wars, all persecutions in the world, and if that is what the Danish People's Party wants, then we would be happy to do so in the Enhedslisten. But it's kind of a weird layout, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is doing here. Well, then I'll just remind you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt states that we have created a system in Denmark where it is much more expensive to have rejected asylum seekers than it is actually to have regular accommodation for asylum seekers. So maybe we should take a look at the much more expensive system, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has added votes because it must be as intolerable as possible. It costs a lot of money, I'd say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172748	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172749	Yes, it is because they rejected asylum seekers not going home as they should. They simply do not follow the rules that apply in Denmark, and that, of course, highlights the problem itself. No, I would say to Mrs Rosa Lund, I am so bored by some kind of experience in life that I do not believe that eliminating all famine, all injustice and all misfortune on the planet is going to happen in Mrs Rosa Lund's or my lifetime. What we could do, on the other hand, was to say that we will certainly not let these people in here. Well, we will not say that they should be allowed to destroy our countries as they have destroyed their own countries and perhaps from there be in a better situation to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172830	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172831	Well, for a rare time, I'm in agreement with sir. Morten Messerschmidt in that peace in the world and stop all persecution may not come in our lifetime, and that is why we need to have an asylum system that provides protection for people who need protection. Then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, about... I forgot now, because I was so shocked that we agreed that I regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172859	There will probably be another debate where it can be handled. In any case, let us thank Mrs Lund for not making any more brief remarks. You want me to wipe it off again? ) Yes, please. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217172926	Thank you, President. Our position is very clear. This is, after all, one of the debates in which I think we can figure out in advance what virtually all the parties think. We Conservatives really want to help, just as we did when we had government power, but the bottom line, as has already been repeated several times in this Chamber today, is that we only increase the problem if we transport asylum seekers from Greece to Denmark. That is exactly what the smugglers want to send out to the outside world: if you just reach Europe, you will be transported further north to, for example, the United States. one of the Scandinavian welfare systems. This will mean that even more will take the deadly journey over the sea in the future; even more will drown, and even more will be piled up in camps in Greece, where conditions will probably only get worse. That is why we are calling for as much help as possible locally in Greece and, of course, also to help with a massive effort in the areas from which people flee; not least, areas such as Syria and elsewhere in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa. It was also a priority for our government when we had the power of government. Because it is so sad what is happening in the Moria camp, and of course we support the efforts that the government has launched. However, we quietly remind you that Greece is, of course, an EU country and that they also have a responsibility to help themselves. If it is the case that we are beginning to say that we are bringing refugees to Denmark from all the countries of southern Europe where there are camps and where there is proper pressure on the camps, then we are only making the problem bigger. It was like one side of this debate, and then there is the other side, because what happens if it is the case that 300 young people are brought to Denmark? I have asked the question both to the SF, I think, and to Radicals. In 1992, 300 stateless persons were actually taken to Denmark and granted them a residence permit. Of the 300, 270 still live in Denmark, out of the 270 204 have received a verdict. 176 of the 270 were on public support last year and the vast majority were granted early retirement. So I don't understand why more of the red parties haven't learned from the past. I think, of course, that in some areas social democracy is unfortunately relaxing in the area of foreign policy, but frankly I must also praise the social democracy for having actually learned from the past in other areas. In fact, Kaare Dybvad, as acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, says that we have to learn from the past, and I would like to see SF and Radicals and Enhedslisten do that because if we do this by bringing 300 here, we will only be affected by even greater integration problems, even more parallel societies, even more crime problems and with people on transfer income. So thank you to the Social Democrats for at least realising that, and how I wish the Red Support Parties realized the same thing. It is sad that you cannot see it, but at least we do not support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173239	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173244	Thank you. It is absolutely certain that there is a request for a short comment. First of all, to use the 1992 figures, nothing is static, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. Hopefully, we've become smarter and better and better in this society to use people's abilities and powers for the benefit of society than we were in 1992. Even for a conservative, there must be limits to keeping things still where it is, and there I think that if we do not take the children who are currently becoming depressive and thus traumatized and who are thus becoming really, really expensive for society, in this case Greece or the country in which they might end up, then we will be doing it very expensive. While children, if they came up here in a good family and got an education, could become a good asset in our society. After all, we have tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, of people coming from other countries who are a huge asset for us in our society today, and then we are selective in focusing on a few from 1992. There it would be better to have a holistic approach. I think the debate we are having today is very subjective and very selective, because it must not be the case that there is success with people coming to our country, because then the theories of the bourgeois parties do not work. When are we going to get a slightly more balanced approach to these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173417	But come on, sir. Christian Juhl, you don't have to take figures from 1992. You can take figures from last year, from the year before and from the year before that. Those who come here as asylum seekers, especially from countries such as Somalia, Iraq and Lebanon, are, after all, massively over-represented in crime statistics. So, unfortunately, the situation has not changed very much since 1992, and of the approx. 300 Palestinians, as I mentioned earlier, came 999, that is to say. One thousand children, and they came here as children, and more than 300 of them have since committed crime. So instead of just repeating the mistakes of the past over and over again, let us do what works, and it is precisely to help locally instead of pulling the problems up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173504	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173506	In this Christmas season, I welcome the fact that two out of three of the children who had a huge risk of being traumatized and who came up here actually work in society today. There are one third who do not, and that is no wonder when you think of the life they have had and that their families have had. I think that Conservatives and many other bourgeois people are pushing some innocent children in front of them in a talk about these moneymen who make money on refugees and things like that. They're pushing the kids in front of them, and these kids can't do anything about it. They must have a decent life, too. We have a partial responsibility for this, and the whole of Europe has a responsibility for this, because we are the place in the world that can afford to carry out that task. Surely we cannot close our eyes to the academics problem and then get away from it in that way. I mean, it doesn't disappear by just saying that there are other problems and they are bigger and that we have difficulty integrating etc. We have to take the task; that is a humanitarian responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173609	Well, now, sir. Christian Juhl, that there are a number of those who have not committed crime and who are then well-functioning. I do not necessarily want to conclude that. We can see that of the adults I now read from Berlingske here that was by far the majority granted early retirement, and 176 of the 270 were on public support. So I do not want to call that workable, and when it is the case that we have learned from the past that this is going to go wrong when we do it, let us find a sensible way forward instead of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173637	So I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173657	Today we are debating a proposal to receive refugee children from Greece. If you close your eyes to the part of reality that is about the consequences of your actions, perhaps the proposal is understandable. Any question that concerns children in need is difficult, that's it. Fortunately, however, we are a majority in the Folketing that does not close its eyes to the consequences and long-term challenges of immigration and asylum policy. The fact is that asylum to 300 unaccompanied children from Moria will give children's families the right to seek family reunification in Denmark. The fact is that the Convention on Human Rights will probably give children's parents the right to come to Denmark and reside in Denmark. And the assumption is that a consequence of possibly derogating from the asylum policy pursued by following the proposal and accepting the children from a migrant camp in Greece may well be that more migrants are pushing their children in front of them in the claws of traffickers to get an anchor into Europe. In other words, this means that more of the children living in countries with difficult circumstances risk being sent on a dangerous journey in the hope that the whole family can have a better future in Europe. And that also means that the pressure on Europe's borders will rise if we turn off the people who have crossed the borders, who are migrants and who really ought to be helped in the neighbourhood where we can help much more for the funds we allocate. It's a completely wrong way to go. New citizens want to go another way. The current asylum system is inhumane. It's a mistake. Thankfully, we are a large majority, including some of the authors of the motion, who agree on that. It causes great damage to Danish society, and it costs a great deal of money. It supports trafficking in human beings, and it helps the few at the expense of the many, just as unfortunately, as is the case with the proposal we are debating today. New citizens will abolish the right to asylum in Denmark and ensure that real refugees are helped in their immediate areas where we can help far more real refugees for the funds we allocate. That is why we are voting against the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217173955	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174001	I'm quite clear that we disagree on a lot of things. But could we not agree on one thing: that we do what we say; that we say our opinion, but also do what we say? When one of the bourgeois politicians after another, whether from the New Civil or the Danish People's Party or the Left, or where it is said that the money is being spent better in the neighbourhoods, yes, we all agree on that. When I then put forward a proposal in the Folketing that we should give 1 million more to development aid to prevent the flow of refugees, what do the bourgeois people vote for? Yes, remember right after they vote no, and they vote no, and they vote no. Why, then, do you keep talking about the money we grant can do more good in a neighbourhood? Yes, our development aid is being given but yet the standard is so bad that people are saying: this is not what we want to offer our children. They can't even get an education. I myself have been to some of the camps where 50 children sit on a stone floor with one book and one teacher. They want to be doctors, they want to be technicians and everything else. Of course they will, but how can they be, when there is not even funds for them for a basic education?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174123	Perhaps the difference between the bourgeois parties and the parties on the extreme left is that we do not believe that the same money can be spent twice. So if the proposal from the Enhedslisten had been that we stop granting asylum to migrants in Denmark and spend that money helping in the neighbourhood, then we back up in New Citizens. However, when the proposal is that, on top of accepting asylum seekers in Denmark, we should also spend extra money in the neighbourhood, despite being one of the very, very few countries that spend a very, very large share and what we have promised in development aid, it will be a no from here. Because the money can't be used twice. And if you try to do so, it is double that has to be taken from the Danes, and that is not fair; that is not what was intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174218	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174219	No, I knew that. I knew that New Citizens would then wash their hands and say: The Danes must have their hands; indeed they must, because Danes suffer. No, the Danes are one of the richest societies in the world and can afford to be able to help prevent them instead of just pretending that they should have some money in the neighborhoods. If we then propose that we give them some money in the neighbourhood, then the bourgeois say no. Then tell us that this is what you are: you will not help to give more money; you will not help to do more prevention. The flow of refugees is increasing, that's all. And yet you cannot build the walls so high that you can keep them out at the end of the day. So why don't you help me make an investment? That is what you do in the business world; you say: Hey, if there's something we don't want here, we make an investment to prevent it. You don't want to do that in this case, and that's why we're in this dilemma. But don't pretend you want to!
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174309	We have never pretended that help in the neighbourhood prevents migratory flows. Because it takes huge sums of money to spend and I am not sure that it could ever be done to bring the large human populations up to a level that means that they can live as well in their home countries as they can in Denmark. So it is simply not realistic. What we are saying is that we think it is reasonable to stop seeking asylum in Denmark; then we spend the money in the neighbourhood where we can help more people for the money we spend. When we think it is fair that the Danes are allowed to keep their own money, it is because it is the Danes' own money that it is not something that dumps down from the sky; it is something that you work your way for when you create value for other people. And it must be a right, also in Denmark, that the fruit of one's own work is one's own.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174353	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174416	Thank you for the word and for the fine podium. Last year, Denmark was the eighth largest donor to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and per year. Capital we were the fourth largest donor. We in the Liberal Alliance are quite happy about this, because we are in favour of helping people who need protection, and so is the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. There is also a lot of helping work under the auspices of the European Union, and here we are also contributing to the EU budget. What we are starting from, for example, when we look at the whole issue of helping refugees. a development economist like Paul Collier, whom I know the Socialists also know very well because he spoke at one of their conferences a few years ago, and some very interesting interviews came out of that in the Danish media. And Collier says that our thinking about development has been very wrong for many years because it has been helping the few at the expense of the many because there has not been an analysis of how to actually do things best. I think I can hear an echo of Paul Collier in some of the things we hear from the Social Democrats today, and I also think that Paul Collier has presented some good analyses that can serve as a guide for helping people who have a need for protection. But what we are not in favour of is asylum immigration. migration, in which migrants move through a long, large number of safe countries and eventually invoke asylum and family reunification in a country they have chosen after passing through a number of countries where they would be safe. Those countries are often chosen, given that migrants already have networks there, and sometimes also in the expectation that it is a welfare state that can benefit if you end up there and apply for asylum. We are not in favour of this being seen by people, for example. Paul Collier says that you organize the aid in a way that is arbitrary and financially meaningless. And this is exactly how to help some groups that are visible in the media interface, but not all sorts of others, are arbitrary. It is a complete arbitrary help, where no decision has been taken on how to help all sorts of others, just as it is economically pointless to help a very small number of people in Denmark when, for example, you are helping a very small number of people in Denmark. through the UN and through the EU can help far, far more people in a much more professional way in the programmes that the UN has been running. I myself visited a UN refugee camp in Arua, northern Uganda, where there were a large number of refugees from South Sudan. It was very, very professional, because it was precisely the UN people who were responsible for it. Then we are also opposed to symbolic policy, as is this proposal, because it is quite clear from the debate that has already taken place that taking 300 refugees and helping them in Denmark will have consequences. What, then, will be the consequences for trafficking in human beings? What will this have to do with the pressure on Europe's borders? It's not analyzed at all. So yes, we must help refugees, and we do so through our major contribution to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and through our contribution to the European Union. It must be done according to sound principles, which are to help the many rather than help the few. None of this can be seen in the proposal here. I have no doubt it's well-intentioned, but you shouldn't just keep your heart warm. You have to keep your head cool, too. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217174844	Yes, it is because I get so sad and get my good Christmas spirit ruined when I keep hearing that when we can't have a complete overview of all refugees in the world, when we can't solve all problems at once, it's symbol politics, and then it doesn't matter. After all, it would have a modest but quite significant impact on 300 children in these camps if they came to Denmark. I mean, if you then say that all right, there are municipalities and there are single families who say: we want to accept them, we have a surplus, and we also dare to take responsibility for them, they must be ashamed of themselves, and it is said that it is pointless that they should interfere with the state's integration policy and refugee policy. I don't know where we're gonna end up with this academy. I am so sorry that all of you who have received a very, very high education are so skilled at explaining away rather than starting from the end. Well, now I'm from the country. When we had to get the turnips in, we started from the end. It was not certain that we were finished that day or the next day, nor was it certain that we could get all the turnips in before it gave frost, but after all we started on it, even though it looked incalculable. Could we not just start somewhere and then say: there are 300 children who are quite innocent; we could deal with them instead of cynically saying that no, we will not?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175007	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175008	I'm truly sorry that I do, sir. Christian Juhl is sorry, because I know Mr. Christian Juhl as a good colleague. But I cannot hear the system of the proposal here. Now Mr. Christian Juhl himself the example of a beet field. I think that this proposal is to look out 27 turnips that look nice, a little round the field of beet, and then pick them up by hand, instead of making something rational with the whole field of beet. The thing about taking 27 cute turnips and just letting it all go, I can't even see the idea. What the rest of us are in favour of is actually starting in the top left corner and then trying to see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175050	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175052	I don't know who we other people are. But we have heard here that when I have said: well then let us set aside some more money and inspire the other countries that are also rich and can afford it, then I am told that we should be proud to have spent 40 or 45 million. kr. to help Greece. Well, that's what we spend in 1 day, maybe even in 1 hour, during the corona crisis to help ourselves, and full respect for it, because it shows that we have a great ability in our society. Thus we also have the Germans, the Swedes, the Dutch, the French, the Italians, more capacity to systematically prevent the flow of refugees than we exploit. That is what I am asking for us to take a position on. And then there is a small, modest suggestion to let these children get away from it, because they have no responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175145	Well, I am sorry for my poor teaching skills, because I started my rapporteur's speech by saying that we have the eighth largest contribution to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and we in the Liberal Alliance approve of that. Then there has been a question of development aid. It's just that economist Angus Deaton won the Nobel Prize in 2015 among others. to demonstrate that development aid does not create development because it creates a very, very bad relationship between the elite and the people in the countries where development aid is targeted. There are evil tongues that say that development aid is money from poor people in the rich world to rich people in the poor world. And Deaton says it's not entirely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175222	So I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is outside the groups represented by the Free Greens, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175243	Thank you for the floor. This is not the first time we in the Danish Parliament have debated this matter and the measures taken to help the refugee children at Lesbos and the terrible inhuman conditions under which children are living now in the new Kara Tepe camp, which has replaced the burnt-down Moria camp. Despite the parliamentary debates, numerous articles and several thousand calls on the social media with a direct call to the government and the support parties to do more, we have not succeeded in helping the children in the camp, a refugee camp in the EU, in our European neighbourhood, where conditions have long been criticised by the European Commission, by UNHCR and several international NGOs and by Danish Refugee Aid. We have the means and the power to debate the situation here in Denmark, and that is a good thing, but in the camp the residents cannot be allowed to document the situation. They get their mobile phones smashed by the Greek police, and if NGOs try to document the situation, they are not allowed to do so either. There are obvious and obvious conditions in the Kara Tepe camp, which the Greek authorities of the camp do not wish to be elucidated under any circumstances. Despite this, news comes out about the situation: terrible descriptions of families in leaking and unheated icy tents full of rainwater in the morning, knocked over plastic toilets and children who literally wander around in water and mud to their knees. After the Moria camp burned, 13 European countries joined forces and offered to evacuate hundreds of unaccompanied children from the camp. Like several other parties, the Free Greens asked the government that Denmark did the same. Surprisingly, the government would not consider that it would encourage flight via human trafficking if Denmark accepted unaccompanied children from Lesbos. However, there is evidence that the more difficult it becomes to emigrate through increased border controls and the closure of escape routes, the more refugees are forced to choose dangerous escape routes through human trafficking. Instead of evacuating, Denmark sent camping tents and blankets, most of which, according to IOM, the International Organization for Migration, never reached Lesbos. Only in November did 20 out of 50 summer camping tents come out, and at that time they were completely useless at Lesbos. There are probably only a few unaccompanied children left in the camp today. On the other hand, there are 2,500 children in the new camp at Lesbos, many of whom are babies or children under the age of 5 • small children who are in need, far beyond the need and deprivation usually seen in refugee camps, which are not good, by the way. The new stay of the unaccompanied children is not registered. Some have moved to the mainland. Some have come to European countries that offered them a new home. It was not Denmark, despite the fact that 14 Danish municipalities and more than 50 Danish foster families offered to welcome the children on their own account, and despite the fact that the 2020 Finance Act provided funds for 500 quota refugees, of which only 200 have arrived in Denmark in 2020. I call on the government, in the name of humanity, to draw up a plan for how Denmark can join the European cooperation on the redistribution of the refugee children of the camp. Many countries continue to welcome children, families, sick people, disabled people and vulnerable refugees from Lesbos. In addition, we want information to be provided on how the exceptional aid of twice 22.4 million is being provided. kr. have reached the unaccompanied children who are no longer in the camp and knowledge about the stay and well-being of these children. Free Greens support SF's proposal that Denmark receive the 300 refugee children from the former Moria camp and now from Kara Tepe camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175712	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175716	Thank you. Now that the rapporteur considers it appropriate to involve humanity, is that an expression of the rapporteur's view that some parties are more human than others? In addition, is the rapporteur aware of how many people, on average, died drowning on their way across the Mediterranean in 2019? And does the rapporteur think that that number will increase or decrease if we start to introduce a model in which, once people have come to Europe, they begin to be redistributed within Europe, despite the fact that they do not have an asylum base?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175757	Thank you. Humanity, I think we all have. We just don't react to it the same way, where we want to help these 300 children, and we want to help a lot of other refugee children and children and other people in other countries who are in need. Around drowning, it is totally unacceptable that we should put people into it. That is why we need to create a proper asylum system so that we have the children and adults who need help, among other things. quota refugees, to European countries where we can help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175832	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175834	There was a part of the question that was not answered, but I can then answer that it was about. 25 a week drowning in 2019. Whether that number will rise or fall, there was no answer either, but I do not see how it would do anything other than to increase if we started following this model that Mrs Susanne Zimmer is setting up. I think the most accurate thing you can say about this, as Mr. Henrik Dahl also said that it seems infinitely arbitrary that there are 300 children that Mrs Susanne Zimmer has seen on television and that the focus is now on. There are millions of children in the world who are suffering and many of them deserve equal attention, and that is why we need to devote more resources to development aid and to helping in various refugee disasters instead of in some places where we can then conduct major campaigns on social media and what else we are driving away our time with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217175924	First of all, we need to create some relationships in our world so that people can stay where they want. 'Cause nobody's running for fun. Well, you want to stay in your own homeland if you have the opportunity, and live a decent and safe life. So we have to do something about that. We have to do many things, but it requires more resources than we are using now and that we accept 300 refugees, unaccompanied refugee children, I have no idea that should mean that more people are drowning. Then there is also what I said about the asylum system that we need to do something about it so that we do not push people into trafficking. And that's where there's that English report from Oxford University that shows that we can actually make it less attractive for smugglers and create a less need to use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180013	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can therefore give the floor to the rapporteur for the second part of the rapporteur's speech. Welcome to sir. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180033	Thank you. I have, of course, given my rapporteur's speech, but I would also like to say something a little summing up. I think, unfortunately, that if I have to say something summing up for this debate, it is that I think it has been a little depressing and that the will to help these children is very, very small. In addition, there have been a number of rather sloppy allegations in the debate that we are merely making this proposal in order to flash certain positions, and it is a little said that it is a question of having politically correct positions. I actually think it's kind of fun to look at this situation where it's really been a little reversed. It is as if the politically correct thing today is at least that there is a broad majority in favour of not wanting to help in this situation where those who are politically incorrect are, in fact, we who are quitting in this situation and want to welcome these children. I also find it strange that we cannot recognise that we can do both at the same time, in other words that we can both fight against the dysfunctional asylum system we have, fight to change it, and at the same time respond to this very acute situation. There is no doubt that the situation is not optimal and that it is a consequence of a dysfunctional asylum system, but we also have to respond to the reality that, after all, exists. However, so that things do not become too depressing, I would also like to mention something that gives me a great deal of hope, and it is the many organisations and the many activists who have engaged in this matter. That's why I'm just gonna use this opportunity to thank you. Many have sent me e-mails over the last few days and have asked me to support this resolution which I have tabled myself, and I have tried to get the answer back to the many people. Thanks to you guys who are fighting this fight, thank you to you guys who also actually help the people who are in need, and thanks to you guys who are pushing for some other political decisions. In conclusion, following Mrs Vermund's remark that it was almost unethical to help these children because there were other places where more could be helped, sat and thought about it afterwards. This is almost going to be a utilitarian debate. Well, can we really use our money better in another way to help as many people as possible? I think that is a very fair question to ask, but it can also be asked in many other situations. You can also put it down when, for example, we do. From here gives money for cancer treatment. One might ask the question: when we spend millions of dollars on a single person's cancer treatment, could we help some people who are starving and many more people instead? And now that we spend money on free psychological assistance, for example, for which I have fought a lot, could we help more people instead? Could we really help more people if we helped some other people in the world with other things? In general terms, I think it is a good question to ask ourselves in here whether we are doing the most ethical thing. In fact, I believe that in this particular case we will help some people who are perhaps some of the most vulnerable in the world. That is why I believe that this can be fully justified as an ethical proposal which will do great benefit to the people involved. I wish it had political support. Thank you to those of you who continue to fight for the cause and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180406	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180410	Thank you. Given how similar many of the e-mails I have received are, and that I think they are some of the same types of e-mails that Mr. Carl Valentin has received, so I actually thought it was some of Mr. Carl Valentine's friends who sent these e-mails. But I understand it's nothing, sir. Carl Valentin has orchestrated. It's always something, but it just didn't work on me as such an ordinary citizen's approach, since it seemed like a relatively coordinated effort, which seems to have filled up the inbox of all members of parliament in the last few days. Besides, there's this thing about priorities. Well, I hope that's nothing new for Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin, because that is the whole core of politics. That is what it is all about, in other words, giving priority to society's resources in a fair way. That's exactly what this is about. We give priority, in a way that gives us the greatest possible humanism possible for the money, and that is why we are some who do not think that we should give priority to what has just been on television, but give priority to where we get, yes, the most humanism for the money. And that's now, isn't it? Carl Valentin mentions health care, which is also why we do not offer all health care. It is, of course, because you have some talented people sitting there helping to make priorities that need to be, and that is why, unfortunately, there are some very expensive health treatments that we cannot offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180521	Of course it is not a new consideration or a new discussion. That wasn't my point either. I just thought it was a little fun to bring it up, because we are actually making a proposal here that helps some of the most vulnerable people in the world, some who really need our help. And if you really have the approach that every single time we have to consider whether there are some even poorer and even more vulnerable people we can help, which I think is a fine approach, then I think it would also affect New Citizens' policy a little more. Because there are many other things that I can see New Citizens want to spend money on, which in no way will be as good for people and be as utilitarian or altruistic as it will be to help those people as is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180608	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180610	Well, this thing about how to spend the money best, I think it's just the core of this, and that's one of the things that makes this discussion incredibly interesting. And, of course, it's also relevant in this area to think in those ways. As far as I remember the figures from 2016 on how much money we spent to accommodate asylum seekers, you have to remember that half in round numbers will end up being rejected, so it was in the vicinity of 3 billion. kr. in Denmark, as I just remember it on standing foot and in round numbers etc. This is roughly the same amount that the UN had to deal with millions of refugees in both North Africa and the Middle East who had to be accommodated. I think this is another very good example of how many people have brought out good examples this evening that you get more for the money by helping out in the world than by looking out for someone you've seen on a television show and then throwing everything into them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180702	In the SF, we are also in favour of basically changing our asylum system; for us to ensure a better redistribution; for us to have less spontaneous asylum and we would also like to help much more in the neighbourhood. This is among other things. That is why we have been fighting for many years to increase development aid. So we think it's a good idea to do both, that is to say both help in this acute situation and help more in the neighbourhoods. That is also what we are advocating. So I think we should not make it as if we were only going to do one thing and not the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180730	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180734	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that if you cannot even support 300 refugee children, it has nothing to do with television or anything else. It simply has to do with showing the real cynicism of the bourgeois parties not even 300 refugee children. I could even understand it if we said 10,000 or 20,000 of the worst-off people in the world, but 300 refugee children. It also exhibits the Social Democratic Party on a wild run from their humanist attitudes just 30 years ago, yes, just under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, where you would like to spend 1%. EC 7/8-1984, point 2.1.109. OJ C 30, 30.2.1984; Bull. You don't even want to do that now. 0.3 per cent has been cut. away, since blessed Svend Auken lived and was minister. But I have a question for SF: Instead of mentioning it with cancer and all that you couldn't take and stop giving tax relief to the richest, not spending so much on the military or not having so many holes in the tax administration? I would rather go along with that than start saving on cancer treatment or other things which are quite essential in the sense of the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180843	Of course, I fully agree with that. It wasn't because I had to fight to cut those things down. It was just to compare it to some other good things, just like I think this is a good move. I also think it is good that we help people with mental problems or who have cancer or the like. And I would also just like to say thank you to the Enhedslisten, not only for the support for the proposal here, but also for the commitment to the debate in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180907	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180908	I am, of course, sorry when some people get upset and tired of it, and when Mrs Marie Krarup finds it a pity to have this debate, I would like to thank the SF for raising it. For it is refreshing on top of all those almost hateful attitudes towards refugees that we have to take a stand on every week, almost every week, in this context. I shall take a position on them; it is my duty as elected here in the Folketing. But I also find it refreshing to be able to discuss sometimes a bit of vision about how we could move forward and how we could be a little more humanistic and a little more decent towards the world that is in chaos at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180945	If only we discussed the fight for a more humanistic asylum system as often as we are discussing, for example. Halal flesh in here would do wonders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180954	The next brief remark is from Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217180958	Thanks to the SF for speaking nicely about the utility calculation of an area. Does this also mean that, for example, if you could find a place where you could save around 30 billion in the region at home? kr. a year, would it be agreed in the SF that it would set more resources free to help some of these many people in the world who are having a hard time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181023	It sounds like you're gonna ask this question to come up with some kind of example of a place where you can find some money. But it is clear that if you can find some money that is wasted somewhere and that you could better spend on helping refugees, I would think it was nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181037	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181038	We spend more than 30 billion in Denmark. kr. A year on our efforts towards foreigners who have come here and who are an expense to the state. It was just to say that you are now on the track yourself, that you are using economically rigorous thinking, among other things. in SF to make an effort towards those who are having difficulty in the world. Then it seems strange that if we know that those we get here are some that we have a net higher cost on and, therefore, a few years can help less people will make it even more, knowing that further down the track you will have a less chance of helping where the 31 million people who are children who are on the run in the world right now are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181123	Now, of course, some people are in need of resettlement, and that is why we would like to offer it to them as well. Then it is clear that there are plenty of integration efforts that cost some money, and I think we should do what we can to bring down those costs. But we can, in fact, both fight to integrate people and help people in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181145	No one else has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur for the authors. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181203	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181230	In the motion for a resolution, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group proposes to include social control in the criminal code in the same way as hate crimes, so that it becomes an aggravating factor in the punishment when social control has been exercised as part of a criminal offence. The reason for the proposal is that it must be clearly stated that as a society we will not accept that there is social control in Denmark, for example. women are not allowed to go to the job centre alone or to take a job where there are male colleagues. I would like to start by stressing that the government fully agrees with the intentions behind the resolution, because there should be no doubt that negative social control is totally unacceptable. This is something that we, as a society, strongly reject; it is something that we must actively fight against, and I think we all agree on that. Having said that, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, and I would now like to explain why, even if it is a little technical. Negative social control is already punishable today. It can be punished as psychological violence, and that is why it would already have to result in a higher penalty if another crime, for example, were to occur today. physical violence or coercion is committed as part of negative social control. The fact is that it follows from the criminal code that the penalty increases if you have committed several offences, which must be judged at the same time by the courts. This means that if you are convicted of both physical and psychological violence, for example. social control, then a common penalty will be laid down in practice, which would be more stringent as a starting point than if only physical violence were to be condemned. I don't want to go into a more technical explanation of the law in these two models. This can be clarified in writing if you wish, but the fact is that the rules as they are today already take account of the fact that there must be a higher penalty if another crime is committed as part of the exercise of psychic violence in the form of negative social control. But that does not change the fact that, as I said, I entirely share the intentions of the Left here, because it is certainly also a subject of concern to the government and which I also know concerns broad parts of the Folketing. In the autumn, therefore, we launched a number of initiatives by the government to combat social control. Some of the initiatives require legislative changes and have therefore been translated into a legislative proposal which was tabled yesterday here in the Folketing. The bill contains amendments to both the penal code, as proposed here in the motion for a resolution, the Aliens Act and the Passport Act. As one of the initiatives, we propose, among other things, that negative social control should be written directly into the criminal code's provisions on psychological violence. We are doing this in order to make it clear that it can already be a criminal offence to exercise negative social control, so that it becomes clear, even in the courts. In addition, the government proposes that religious marriages of minors should be banned and that the punishment for maintaining someone in a marriage with coercion should be tightened up. It must also apply to religious marriages which are not of civil validity because we know that religious marriages in certain environments are at least as valuable as civil marriages. We all know the boring stories in the press, which include: reported on a religious divorce contract in which a Funen woman was required to sign that she would lose her right to her children, among others. if she remarried or moved more than 130 km away. We were probably more people who just had to read that article more than once to understand how absurd it really was and saw here in Denmark. I think that story in particular impressed many, and the authors also refer to it in their comments on the motion for a resolution, and I understand that. With the bill that the government has just tabled yesterday, which is due to be dealt with first on Monday, we are going to strengthen the fight against social control and, of course, I am looking forward to the debate on that bill. So to conclude: I can fully support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution here, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution. And this is primarily because negative social control is already punishable as psychological violence today, and I think that is an important signal to send out to both victims and potential perpetrators, that is to say that this behaviour is punishable in line with, for example. physical violence. We have a good principle in the penal code that we do not punish for the same two times. I am glad, however, that there is broad agreement that this is an agenda for action, and so I would also like to thank the Left very much for having drafted it here and also for joining as a party in this discussion and showing that the fight against social control and the concern in this area is far from only something that concerns and interests the left side of the Assembly. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181712	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181717	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the Minister for grabbing the ball that the Left sent in the air back in March, I think it was first by our President, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and subsequently by our integration rapporteur, Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Mads Birded. So thank you for that and also thank you for the positive words and the recommendation for our resolution. Now the Minister himself said that it is very technical and I do not think we should go further down that road, because then I think that only the Minister and the rapporteur will be left in the Chamber. But I have to ask something, because it is still a little unclear what the Minister thinks. So, in the consultation that I had called the Minister for a few weeks ago, I got the feeling that the Minister thought that our resolution was one to the Minister's, that is, that which has only come after. If you want to send a signal to both these men and women who are affected, frankly, I think that what comes from the Minister today is a little muddy, also because psychological violence is already due to the then blue government and many other criminal offences. In other words, the proposal that has come from the Left is to include it explicitly in the penal code, so that it is, as a particularly aggravating circumstance, equated with hate crimes. It's sending a strong signal to these men and also to women, but especially to these men who are many times Muslim darkmen who need to do their homework.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217181849	Well, it's also a little complicated, and if I'm to be honest, I should talk to somebody about it myself and read it a little more than once to understand what's up and down in it. However, the criminal code is roughly divided into two parts: some general provisions, and then some slightly more specific provisions, which in short describe the specific things that are illegal, for example. physical violence or psychological violence. What the Left is proposing is one, and what the government is proposing is the other. Both ideas can be good enough. I think that the government is the best, and I think that we are going the longest with what the government has put forward, whose intention is to take action against the criminals, it is as well as breaking the criminal code and exercising negative social control. I would very much like to elaborate on this, also in writing, in the work of the committee. I'd love to. Then it is an honest matter, I think, from my own point of view to say that the legislative proposal we are putting forward, which is to be dealt with first on Monday, is basically stolen with arms and legs, among other things. From that, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, from something proposed by the SF, proposed from something introduced in Sweden. There is not much of what has been invented by the government itself, and I completely agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182002	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182004	Thank you. That is why the debate may not be as long today as it did when the undersigned sent the motion for a resolution, but it is only good to hear those words from the Minister. What I'm just a little afraid of is that this is going to be more rhetoric on the part of the minister than it is going to be real change of law. And again, it is difficult to avoid it becoming technical, but is it not just a clarification of the current legislation, in which our proposal, that is, the Left, says that it should be written directly into the penal code as a particularly aggravating circumstance in line with hate crimes? There is something there and I might be afraid that the Minister's proposal will not be tough and consistent enough if I am to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182051	Well, I only have one intention that it should be hard and consistent in this area. And it is true that part of what we are presenting and which we will have the opportunity to discuss at first reading on Monday is a clarification that social control can be part of the provision on psychological violence and that it is already that. In that sense there is a certain element of precision in that part of the bill. However, there are other elements that are also about punishment, and we will have the opportunity to discuss this when the bill is first dealt with on Monday. But I believe that we fully share the intention of where we are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182127	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182130	When the Minister talks about negative social control and when this resolution deals with negative social control, we can see that all the examples have something to do with Islam. It is something about the repression of women, discrimination, religious marriages and the lack of access to divorce... everything that belongs to the Islamic family right. Would it not be better to say that Islamic parallel rules must be banned in Denmark and that it must be an aggravating circumstance if one follows Islamic parallel rules or Sharia rules in its crimes against what it is about imposing unfair marriage contracts or other obligations on women?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182228	I think, for example, that if you are going to do something like this... maintaining people in a marriage against their will, it must be punishable, whether it is an Islamic or a Christian marriage. In this way, I think that the law must be equal for everyone. On the other hand, I believe that Mrs Krarup is right in saying that there is probably an over-representation of people who, with theological arguments of Islam, exercise negative social control over others, probably also a fairly strong over-representation. But it's been a few days since I had a meeting with an organization called Aftertro, and some of the stories they told me, from some slightly smaller Christian sects, I think some would call them Christian religions there are probably others who would call them "them" seemed at least also to me as something that could be characterized as social control. Even if it would be punishable, I will leave it up to others to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182325	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182327	Now 99.9%. of the examples of what negative social control is, fall within Islam. That is why it seems a bit assumed that we insist on calling it something other than Islamic Sharia control of people. It seems as if you insist that there are just as many seriousnesss in other religions as there are in Islam, and there is just not. Therefore, it would just be more honest if you dared to call a spade a spade and say that this is Sharia.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182408	I have no wish to radiate that there is just as much social control in other environments and that this has nothing to do with immigration. Of course, social control also has something to do with immigration. But even if we assumed that 99 percent. Of the cases had roots in Muslim environments, what about the last percent? It must also be punishable if the last percentage belongs to some Buddhists or some others. So I think it is right to say that we have a draft law that is religiously neutral and that relates to whether people exercise negative social control or not, whatever their theological justification is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182445	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This is how the rapporteur begins, and it is first the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182502	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Left proposes that social control be written into the penal code in the same way as hate crime, so that it becomes an aggravating circumstance in the punishment procedure when social control has been exercised as part of a criminal offence. To begin with, I would like to thank the Left for presenting the motion for a resolution and for having the debate, because this is an important issue which we must do all we can to overcome. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we must fight for the individual's right to choose his or her own girlfriend or spouse and to decide at all what life he or she wants to live, what education he or she wants to take, etc. Thousands of women, especially those originating in the MENAPT countries, as the Minister has begun to call them, I think that is quite reasonable in parentheses, that is to say that we have got this new category, and I also mentioned that earlier; these could be areas which, among other things, are: would also be known as the Great Middle East does not enjoy that right of self-determination. This is despite the fact that several of them were born and raised in Denmark. We are very keen to guarantee these women's fundamental freedoms, and that is why we have just tabled a legislative proposal which will be dealt with first in this Chamber on Monday. With the bill, we propose, among other things. writing negative social control into the penal code's provision on psychological violence, and in addition, we propose to tighten the grip on imams that contribute to negative social control. As the legislation has been set up today, it is already possible for the courts to punish people for exercising negative social control, but a clarification is now being made. The Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to the further legal examination of the bill now under discussion on Monday on negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182650	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217182720	Islam is present in Denmark, and I would say, unfortunately, very numerously present in Denmark, and this means that Islamic living rules are imposed on many, including women who do not want to live by Islamic rules. Because Islamic rules are unequal from the outset. According to traditional Islam, women are worth less than men, and women, and especially women's sexuality, must be controlled. That is why we see discrimination against women and men. We see women who lose their freedom: they are not allowed to decide for themselves who they want to marry, they do not have access to divorce in the same way as men and, in the extreme, they can be killed by their family if they violate these rules. It is a culture of honour and shame, which unfortunately is now also present in Denmark. It's sad, but unfortunately that's the reality. It is therefore perfectly reasonable to make it an aggravating circumstance if you commit offences because of these rules, i.e. if you justify them with a religious or Islamic view. We can only support this, because it is totally unacceptable to deprive women who live in Denmark, but of course also men who live in Denmark, of the freedom that we have under our legislation. But it is done for religious reasons, and this is where I have a problem with the resolution. Even though I still want to join in on this, I think it is a problem that we do not speak plainly about what is at stake. Because it is a question of Islamic women's oppression or Islamic oppression, and I think it is a little dangerous to confine ourselves to using the word negative social control, because there is a risk that everything else will be swept under it. In other words, when we see the examples in the motion for a resolution of what we must avoid, it comes from within the Islamic world. It is also described as non-Western women, but I think we should say non-Western Muslim women, because it is not women from Ukraine or Thailand or China that are involved; they are women from the Muslim cultural community. So this is one of the many problems that Islam has imposed on us in Denmark, and that is why I think it would be much more honest to say that it should be an aggravating circumstance if you commit offences for Islamic reasons, in other words where you refer to Islamic rules of life. So I would urge the authors of the motion to do so, and I think we will consider tabling an amendment to the motion for a resolution in order to make it clearer what it is about. Otherwise, as has happened in the law on donations to congregations in Denmark, we risk suddenly getting all sorts of weird stuff mixed up in the left, which suddenly wants to ban everything else, which they already do not like, because they generally do not like religion or traditions, etc. I'd think that was sad. But there is no doubt that we want women living in Denmark or all people living in Denmark to enjoy the freedoms we have, and there one should not come up with something darkened Islamic outlook and say that one should not draw Muhammad, or that one should not choose one's spouse, or that one as a woman does not have as much right to leave a marriage as one has as a husband. So we are totally in favour of the proposal, but we would call for a different way of talking about the proposal and using a different wording. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183134	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183209	Thank you to the Left for tabling this motion for a resolution. The idea of the motion for a resolution is to make social control an aggravating factor in the criminal code, so that, like practical cases of hate crimes, more severe penalties are imposed if the offence has been committed as part of social control. Social control is an important issue and negative social control must be given increased political attention. The Radical Left supports that. The Radical Left would like to look more closely at every proposal put forward to combat negative social controls. That is why we are not totally opposed to a proposal such as that here, but when we do not vote for it in the end, it is about seeing a need for a more general and larger plan of measures for negative social control and not a single element like this. Social control can be a lot of things. After all, we have been looking at recently with marriage contracts that are difficult or impossible to get out of. That is one thing, and it is an example of what is clearly to consider negative social control. There will also be cases that are more in the grey area, and that is why we also need to take into account how to prove in court that something is social control and something is not. That depends, among other things. of good definitions and criteria for it. But thank you to the Left for the proposal. We agree with the aim and we will also be open to other proposals on social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183349	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183354	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for the wise words. I know that the rapporteur is well aware of this issue. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. After all, the rapporteur has now heard the Minister's position and attitude on both the Left's motion for a resolution, but also on his own legislative proposal, which will be the first reading on Monday. What the Minister has to say is merely a clarification of the legislation in force, with some nuances, and there are also a lot of other things in that bill and I really think that the Left's proposal is more sharp. We are taking this step further to protect these women and send a signal to these men, which is why I am rather sorry that the Radicals cannot support our resolution, because I guess that the Radicals will support the government's proposals on Monday. I have to ask: when you hear about the proposal that comes from the Minister and hear about the Left, which of them do you really think goes the longest?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183501	Thank you. I have to remind the rapporteur to address him. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, please respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183509	The Radical Left is positive every time a proposal is put forward to combat negative social control, which is why we are pleased that we are both debating one today and also doing so on Monday, so we welcome the fact that this is an issue that has been given greater political attention and that is why, when we have had a group meeting on Monday, we come to a decision on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183537	Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183539	Sorry, I'm still gone new in this game and I'm still getting away to screw me up. I am sorry about that, President. But I would just like to say one thing to the rapporteur from the Radicals: please give this the attention it deserves. Don't let it drown in the government's bill, which, first of all, doesn't go as far as the Left, but, secondly, it also gives a muddy picture and is covered by all sorts of other things. That is what the Left's proposal does not do. It is perfectly clear to itself as an aggravating circumstance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183611	The Radical Left very much welcomes the proposal that has been put forward here, but what is also essential for seriously addressing this very important issue of negative social control is that we should go deeper or deeper into the helicopter, you might say, and look at it on a more general and larger level. At least that is what we are interested in from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183637	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217183703	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Left for tabling this motion for a resolution, which seeks to make negative social control an aggravating factor in the punishment of criminal offences. In the SF we believe it is important to take action against negative social control, as this does not in any way belong in the 21st century. It is not right that Danish society is so asymmetrical when it comes to equality. In the SF, we believe that it is highly questionable that we are frontrunners in the area of gender equality, while there are women in hidden environments that are extremely limited in their manifestation of life and choice. The negative social control results when women, for example, are tied into unwanted marriages or when imams draw up divorce contracts that in principle bind women as much on their hands and feet as the marriage itself. We in the SF strongly distance ourselves from this oppression of women, as we believe that all people should have the right to decide their own life and body, and that all people should have the right to unfold and experiment with life. It's a human right. Therefore, we have proposed in the SF to include negative social control in section 243 of the Criminal Code on psychological violence, which gives up to 3 years in prison. Among other things, it has to be done. hit those who expose the individual to extensive destructive surveillance, or families who maintain women in unwanted marriages against their will. In the SF, we would also like to help tighten up the legislation, but we do not think it is a good idea at first to tighten up the penalties so that negative social control is penalised more severely than psychological violence. And who really says that negative social control is worse than psychological violence? Psychic violence can be just as bad. We also know that the government itself is on the way with extensive legislation next week. In fact, as I look very much forward to on Monday. It will be a legislative proposal that will be thoroughly prepared and submitted to consultation, which is necessary in a legislative amendment of this nature. So we do not want to lay down a specific amendment to the criminal code without it being consulted first. I share the intentions, and I am very pleased that the Left is tabling this motion for a resolution, but I would say that precisely because there is a legislative proposal on the way, which is more thorough and more comprehensive, we cannot support this motion for a resolution in the SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184052	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184056	I would just like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his speech. I also know that this is something the rapporteur is very concerned about. In fact, I think that the rapporteur's speech sounded ridiculous, as if it could come from here, and that is why it is all the more regrettable that the rapporteur does not choose to take the small last step and now say yes to this motion for a resolution. For what the rapporteur concluded by saying was that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left is not comprehensive enough, and in fact I do not agree with the rapporteur. On the contrary, I think that ours is more comprehensive. I also have a question for the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur actually think is the worst hate crime or social control? Because, with our resolution, we are going to put the two things on the same footing. The reason I am asking is that the rapporteur was talking about psychological violence. So what I have to ask is, how are you going to rank this thing with hate crimes and social control? What does the rapporteur think is worst and should be punished the hardest?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184157	I shall begin with the first, which is why we do not support this motion for a resolution. It is, as I said, because there is a bill on the way that has been worked out and that contains several different elements. It may well be that we can end up with an amendment. I won't be able to say that because I haven't seen the bill yet. I don't have to be smart about a hate crime being the worst. It depends on what is involved in the hate crime in question, i.e. whether it is a statement or an infringement or whether it is physical violence. I can't really comment on that. But I know that negative social control is at least as destructive as psychological violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184251	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184253	With this motion for a resolution from the Left, we are trying to put pressure on the government to punish this more severely. For what the rapporteur also says in his speech, and as I have also said before, and we have also discussed it in consultation with the Minister, is precisely that we need to send a signal. We need to send a signal to these women and most of all to these men that this is completely unacceptable. I am afraid that the SF will now agree to a bill on Monday, which will not be near the same hard line. I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184328	I fully agree with Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen that it is important that we send this strong signal to these dark men and to the families that limit and imprison their children. Now we have been talking about negative social control for so many years without doing anything about it, and now, finally, on Monday, we will have to deal first with a bill to criminalise negative social control. So it's a victory, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184407	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184410	Thank you. I am always very pleased with the rapporteur's efforts against negative social control, and I have the utmost respect for that. This is just a motion for a resolution, and then the rapporteur says it has not been in consultation, etc. If it is the case that this is being put forward as a real legislative proposal, then it has to be consulted and amendments can be made and it can be turned and so on. etc. So why not just back this up, not least since it is heart blood for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184439	I want to start by thanking you for those nice words. I am very pleased about that, because it is true that I have been fighting against negative social control for a very, very many years, and I have also tried to shout the left against this problem. Then Mr. Marcus Knuth, why we do not support this resolution because it can also be consulted. But why two hearings? Well, we already have one bill ready now, and let us look at it and then rejoice that we can finally do something about negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184525	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184526	Sometimes the reality is that you don't want to support each other's proposals, because uh, it comes from a red party, or it comes from a blue party. Will the rapporteur at least take the very sensible things that are here and try to have them incorporated into the legislative proposals that are coming so that the effect of this can actually become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184546	I simply do not agree that we are just saying this because we do not want to join the other wing. Well, I remember myself a few months ago, here from the platform, bringing the government to a minority in this matter of the repatriation law. So that's certainly not why. The reason why I am not voting for this motion for a resolution right now is simply that the next legislative proposal is much more thorough and that there are many more elements in what I think is really sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184627	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184630	Thank you. As I know the rapporteur, I fully agree with Mr McMahon. Marcus Knuth in that the rapporteur has long and rightly and importantly fought against negative social control and has also spoken openly about the challenges of the Islamic environments, and thank you for that. Earlier this day, we had a rapporteur who said that it is nice that there has been no block policy in foreign policy; I think it was Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. However, when I hear the rapporteur rejecting this, as everything else is just a motion for a resolution, which can therefore easily be incorporated into a real legislative proposal, it is also a legislative proposal that is the result of continuing a motion for a resolution. I wonder whether there is still a block policy in it, i.e. whether we are going to end up in a situation where a proposal which sounds as if it could have been written by the SF is rejected because it comes from a bourgeois party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184727	Thank you for the nice and commendable words. I'm really glad about those. It is true that negative social control has been one of the things on which I have distinguished myself very, very much. And the reason why I and we in the SF do not in the first place support this resolution is simply that the government has listened to us and written our proposal one for one into the future bill, which is more thoroughly worked out, which will include passports, and there will also be some other things. So that is what I am looking forward to first reading on Monday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184813	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184814	That's fair enough. This is not just a matter of performing negative social controls, but also of carrying out negative social controls, for example. commit wife violence. Wife violence is not something that is being judged quite harsh today, but if there is domestic violence, the suggestion is that it should be an aggravating circumstance if, in addition, negative social control has been exercised against a wife, for example. So if the bill coming from the government on Monday does not contain that element, i.e. that it is an aggravating circumstance in other contexts, will the rapporteur work for it to be included in the new legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184901	First of all, as I said earlier, we must welcome the fact that this will be punishable and that it will be criminalised. It had a long prospect ten years ago, but today we can actually talk about it without blocking it. If there is something I am opposed to, then it is actually block politics. It's against my integrity. Let us look at the bill and if there is anything we think makes sense in tightening up the bill further, then I would really like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217184939	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185003	Thank you. And thank you to the Left for now having this debate on negative social control. I would like to start by saying that we fully support in the Enhedslist the intentions of this motion for a resolution which comes from the Left. Social control is totally unacceptable and it does not belong anywhere. A few years ago I have been working in a language stimulation at Nørrebro, where I have met some of the women who are unfortunately being subjected to negative social control. Fortunately, we have come to a place where we all agree in here that something needs to be done in this area. I do not necessarily disagree with the fact that there must be an increased punishment for crimes committed with negative social control as a aim if it has an effect on the social control that is being exercised. But more severe penalties are rarely the right tool alone, and that is why I also noticed that Mr. Mads Fuglede in Dagbladet Information Tuesday 8 December 2020 said, and I quote: "But I must honestly admit that it is after all after we have seen much whip not work... Social control we have of course made criminal. So there are some tools that go hand in hand. But we can't force people... I actually think that, sir. Mads Birde says here in Dagbladet Information, is very right. It will have to be followed up by some other things. Now we know that the government, on which we have already talked a great deal, will come up with a proposal on Monday. We intend to support this in the Enhedslisten. But I also think that the Left has some really important points in this resolution, which is why I would really like us to spend some time in committee working on this proposal. Perhaps you could go in the direction of an account. That will certainly be our proposal on the part of the Enhedslisten, but of course it is up to the Left itself to decide. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is really important that, at the same time, we also work on some other measures to ensure that we avoid negative social controls. It could, for example. be to ensure that the women who are in Denmark on their husband's residence permit and are therefore caught in their marriage receive their own residence permit. I think that would be a very good tool, just as I think that the consent law that we have adopted today is also a very good tool, because it also means that rape is not right either if they are committed in a marriage or with a partner. So I think we have come a very long way and I think that the Left comes to the table with something really good. I also think that Mr. Mads Birde's statements in Dagbladet Information could arise an exciting alliance, I would say, in this area. This is at least the first time in a long time that I have been able to see myself after all in Mr. Mads Birde's statements. So it is a support for committee work from here, but I cannot say clearly whether we will vote in favour or against if we take it to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185317	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185322	As such, I do not have any questions for the rapporteur, but I would really like to acknowledge that the rapporteur is returning so positively to this motion for a resolution. And the reason why I am actually taking the floor now is also that I would like to acknowledge what Mr. Mads Birded quite rightly said that the penalty should not be left alone. I can also tell you now that this is probably not the last resolution on this subject either, so it is welcome that several other parties have the same thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185349	It's so nice that we agree on that. After all, in the recently agreed financial agreement, the parties of the left have also set aside money to combat negative social controls, so we must also translate them into reality. So I think that we are going to have a spring in which we are going to address the root of these problems, which unfortunately we see exist in Denmark, where young people and mainly women are being subjected to negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185419	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185442	Thank you, Madam President. Our position is very clear. We think this is a sensible proposal from the Left. We ourselves, the Conservatives, have been fighting for a long time to get more focus on this unfortunately extensive problem, which unfortunately has been deeply rooted in Danish society. We see the problems in the mosques, among others. with the marriage contracts that are placed on top of the ordinary Danish marriage contracts, which sometimes bind women in some terrible situations; we see it in Muslim families, where especially women are locked in absolutely terrible and unreasonable situations; and we look it down into the school classes. So I would like to thank the Left for taking this problem very, very seriously. Now the SF rapporteur has just left the Chamber, but I would also like to thank Halime Oguz for fighting as hard as she does, and also thank the other parties who support it in whole or in part. We ourselves, in Conservatives, have a case that has been promoted several times in the media, with one of our candidates for the City Council, Roya Moore, who has an Iranian background and who experienced a call from the Iranian Embassy, who said that if she did not divorce under religious rules in the Imam Ali-Mosque, it would not be accepted in Iran, which would de facto say that she could not go back and visit her country of birth and her family there. That's totally unfair. Naser Khader and I have just had consultations with the Minister for Justice, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and thanks to the ministers for coming forward. It was, of course, a good dialogue, but it was not, of course, because we came much closer to the solution to the problem. Of course, there are no snapshot solutions either, but we have to take that step by step, as with so many other major problems. And what the Left is proposing here is certainly a step in the right direction. So thank you to the Left. We wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185640	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185712	No one in Denmark should live in a terrorist regime of negative social control. Decades of failed immigration policy have unfortunately done great damage to our society. And one of the many is the negative social control that Islamic culture in particular brings. The proposal that we are debating today is about making social control an aggravating factor in the punishment of criminals. This means, among other things, that Muslim men convicted of, for example, wife violence will be punished more severely if, in connection with physical violence, psychological violence has been committed in the form of negative social control. That's right, and it's important. If the right to live as a free human being is to apply to everyone, including all women in Denmark, also to those who originate in a Muslim culture, then we must, and must, crack down on the negative social control that we see particularly in the Muslim environments, as is also shown by the comments made in the motion for a resolution. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Left and to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen for presenting the proposal today. New citizens, of course, fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance in the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217185923	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by saying that I am actually very proud to stand here today in the platform, even though it is not the first time, but it is my first resolution. So thank you very much for the debate. This is one of my personal battles, one of my key issues, which I'd really like to take up a fight with. And it is not just because I am a citizen of Odense, where we have seen some of the glaring examples of social control over time. The worst have ended up in honour killings, and in the autumn shocking, but not surprising, revelations about religious imams and parallel courts completely disregarding all Danish legislation, what we have also called Shariaskillsmisser: A woman from Odense could not be allowed to divorce her husband because he simply did not accept it. And in spite of the woman's desire for divorce, the husband kept visiting her in her home and demanding sexual services... what I call rape. Because the woman wasn't allowed to say no, and according to the imam, they were still married. We also have examples where women cannot divorce because they have to pay a dowry of hundreds of thousands of kroner or where they are not allowed to see their children if they move, for example. Just a mile away from their husband. The intention is to keep the woman in this iron grip so she doesn't shame her family. As I have said before, it is quite incredible that despite corona and travel restrictions, there has never been more access to Middle Eastern and Medieval conditions so close. Social control, forced marriages and marriages of minors have been going on for far too long, not only in Odense, but also elsewhere in Denmark: in immigrant environments where the biggest attacks on equality in Denmark happen over and over again, where women are not allowed to go alone at the job centre or go to work where there are male colleagues. A study has shown that young women with a non-Western background experience significantly less self-determination and freedom compared to other young people. We will not accept this, because in Denmark we have equality and we have equal opportunities. In addition, the study has also shown that young people who are exposed to this kind of social control are at greater risk of mental maltreatment, which is not so strange. That is why we are obliged to protect the women and children who are experiencing this. It is they who are the greatest victims and we must support their fight for freedom. Their invaders are Muslim darkmen who understand only one language, and that is tough consequence. That is why they also need to be punished more severely, even if it has to be followed up by other things. For the punishments, there must be more. The Left will enter social control directly into the criminal code in the same way as hate crimes, so that it becomes an aggravating circumstance in the punishment when social control has been exercised as part of a criminal relationship. The Courts must be able to attach greater importance to social control, irrespective of whether social control is directed at women or men or whether there is psychological or physical violence. The legislation must make it clear that Denmark does not accept this, and that is what we do best by writing social control directly into the criminal code. In October I had the Minister in consultation on this subject and the major problems created by social control. I also presented this proposal to the Minister, but unfortunately at that time I could not get a clear and clear answer that supported the Left's proposal. And after today I have to say that I feel more certain that, although the proposals are similar to each other, the government's bill and the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left are therefore more far-reaching; ours is to go further. Finally, I would just like to say thank you to the parties that have supported it. Thanks to DF and Enhedslisten, Conservative and New Citizens. To be honest, I was not so surprised that my blue friends and comrades, Pernille Vermund, Marie Krarup and Marcus Knuth, backed up. But it was gratifying to see that Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten was also positive. By the way, I should also like to say that Mr L.A. Unfortunately, Henrik Dahl had to leave, but of course they also support our proposal. Perhaps we can land it in a report, I will have to look at that, and then I will see if I can embrace the good input of the various parties that have come here today. I would also like to make an appeal to the rapporteurs who actually supported the proposal, but who, for mysterious reasons, did not end up going the last step. Now I see that the rapporteur to whom I would like to speak has gone, unfortunately. Maybe they're watching. However, I would like to make an appeal for them to look again at the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left and the government's legislative proposals. Otherwise, I would also just like to say that my door is open for further talk. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190442	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190445	I would like to ask the rapporteur what is the rapporteur's view of my proposal to change language, so that it becomes clear what it is about, and so that a spade is called a spade and Islam for Islam and Islamic women's oppression for Islamic women's oppression, so that what you criminalise is when someone robs other people of their rightful freedoms on the basis of Islamic rules of living.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190522	Thank you to Mrs Krarup for her question. I was thinking about it when I heard Mrs Krarup mention it. It's kind of the same thing as we've been thinking it's Bill No. L 81 on the prohibition of donations, where we are also faced with the same problem. From what I have said in my rapporteur's speech today and have also asked about, it is clear what I am surrounding and what this is going to be all about. However, I also think that there are some reservations about excluding or specifically engaging in a particular area, because there can therefore also be good examples of social control elsewhere. So I think this is something we should take in committee work, that is, how we solve it best, because I have not really thought it through and we have not talked about it before.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190612	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190613	There has just been no mention of an example outside Islam at any time in the debates we have had. But of course it is possible to refer to Jehovah's Witnesses who, if they fall away from their faith, at least expose their people to some unpleasantness, but not to criminal acts, as far as I am aware. But we did not want to legislate on that in the past. So it has to be said that the reason why there is a desire for legislation in this area is that Islam is so massively present and that we see so many of these kinds of crimes so my proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190655-2	I would really just like to say that I would be sorry if we ended up making a legislative proposal so specific that we end up with, it might be said, excluding some that we should not actually exclude. The rapporteur himself deals with the example of Jehovah's Witnesses, where situations may also arise where a woman or a man is sitting in a situation where he would need this law to cover them too. Then I would just like to agree with the rapporteur that we have to recognise where the problem lies. I know that we will have a good talk about this in the committee work afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190728	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190729	Thank you. And once again, thank you to the Left for raising this issue. I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that, unfortunately, negative social control is something that exists in many parts of our society. So, I would say that we in the Enhedslisten have always wondered that negative social control was something that lay with the Foreign Minister, since it is a question of people living in Denmark, because the negative social control is happening here and unfortunately not only exists in environments where you are very strong supporters of Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190811	But I also recognise that, and that is what I said to Mrs Krarup. I think it is important to do this, also because I have the feeling that there is so much support for it and that we agree on what the objective is, so now we must not let ourselves be blinded by it, so it will be a discussion about who, how and how we exclude it. Let us now focus on helping the people who are in this situation and then get a very clear report or something; I am too new to go into that, but I think that is one of the things we take in the committee work afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190842	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190902	It has been drunk and the debate has been opened. Here you go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217190920	I would also like to start by expressing my thanks for the motion for a resolution B 92 on safeguarding and preserving the Danish cultural tradition in public spaces, and I would like to start by saying that we in the government cannot support the resolution. As a starting point, we agree with the authors of the motion that this is an important and central issue, and I myself also understand the concern expressed by the proposal. Because we are experiencing examples of forces that do not recognise democracy and absolutely fundamental rights and rules of play in this society. It is a set of values which should not take root, or which, I am sorry to say, should not be allowed to take root deeper in Danish society than it has already done, because it is devastating for integration and for cohesion. So, as I said, I actually understand the concerns here and think it is also a relevant discussion. I also think it is important that we constantly ask ourselves what values our society should base itself on and reflect. I myself am rounded by values of community, cohesion and everything that makes society function from my position. For me, therefore, it is basically about how newcomers become citizens and not against citizens. The motion for a resolution refers to the national interests of the Planning Act as a reason for a state objection to proposals for municipal planning. For example: It is a national interest that the municipalities take into account in their planning cultural historical conservation values which relate to the traces of human activity in the open country and cities from prehistoric to recent times, for example. the churches are distinctive cultural historical distinguishing marks in the landscape. However, the fact that there is room in municipal planning for activities that are not considered to arise from Danish cultural values cannot in itself justify an objection under the Planning Act. Questions have previously been raised about the possibility of ensuring with local planning that mosques and other ecclesiastical activities are placed in places suitable for it. The Minister for Industry has informed me that he has asked his ministry to investigate whether and, if so, how the Planning Act can contribute in such a context, so that it can be included in future political discussions as a follow-up to the Plan Act evaluation. I do not think that we should be opposed in principle to mosques. In my view, it is not the case that you put a few bricks on top of each other and call it a mosque that is the problem. We have plenty of religious, including Muslim, citizens who are well-functioning and constructive fellow citizens of Danish society. One of the fundamental rights in Denmark is freedom of religion, which means that one can freely cultivate one's faith in Denmark, just as one can gather to cultivate one's faith in a way that is consistent with one's beliefs. This means that there is nothing to prevent a Muslim, for example. arranges a bathroom or a mosque in an existing building, or that a Buddhist arranges a temple in an existing building, provided, of course, that applicable legislation and regulation in the area are complied with. The problem arises when extremist ideas propagate into ethnic minority communities and when, for example, A mosque becomes a distribution center for destructive ideas. That is why we also have to ask ourselves questions such as:: Who has financed the mosque, and what is being preached about? After all, the government came up with a bill in November on the ban on receiving donations from legal persons, including foreign state authorities, government-controlled organisations and companies that oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. The government also plans to table a bill on sermons in languages other than Danish. The purpose of this bill is to create greater openness about religious preachers' sermons in Denmark when they preach in languages other than Danish. It's the church minister who's bringing that bill. I would also like to mention briefly the debate on prayer calls, which we have had here in the Chamber, when I also said at that time that I think prayer calls are presumptuous for the citizens who live nearby. The government has therefore taken the initiative to clarify the legal basis for a ban on prayer calls, so we know the response options. That work is still under way. It is important for me to stress that the proposed rules will of course apply to all citizens of Denmark regardless of religious affiliation. The proposal that has been put forward today also provides an opportunity to remember some of the tools that we already have the opportunity to use to combat those who will challenge our democracy and our values. It may be the national list of sanctions, which is a tool that helps prevent hate preachers from entering Denmark. I can also mention the parallel community agreement, which was adopted in spring 2018, and which the Social Democracy also helped to agree with the then government. That agreement is also an important step in the fight to bring Denmark together. The agreement must ensure that there are no longer ghettos in Denmark by 2030. The latest list from the Minister of Housing shows that it is going in the right direction... the effort is actually working. The government is also prepared to see whether other measures can be taken to prevent religious parallel societies, and we welcome all good proposals. In conclusion, I would like to mention that we are also in a good dialogue with European colleagues who are facing the same challenges as we are doing and where we share experiences, among other things. on how to prevent anti-democratic funding of activity in European countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191508	Thank you. There are brief comments, and first of all it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191511	In Denmark, we have a law that is only allowed to fly with a keel. We have a law that you can't build buildings or constructions, so they're shadowing a church. But we do not have a law against Islamization, we do not have a law against prayer calling, we do not have a law against the building of Grand Mosques and Minarets and such. Therefore, it is that we think it is a very good idea to create such a general way of defending Danish culture in public spaces rather than having to ban every single small thing. Because we can't really figure out what it is that can get out of things. It is really difficult for each city council to sit and invent the deep plate and find out how to avoid having prayer calls in their local area or how to avoid some strange Middle Eastern building coming to dominate their village. So does the Minister not see that this is a good and practical and useful way of defending everything we want to defend against Islamism?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191618	I understand that not only in Denmark does it occur, but I also believe in other European countries that there is a discussion on how to preserve its cultural character, how to prevent it from simply being dissolved in globalisation and multiculturalism. I can understand that. We also have several different pieces of legislation in Denmark, in particular the Planning Act, which should help regulate how public, municipal planning develops. The consultation, which I also know Mrs Krarup took part in with me and the Minister for Business and Industry, also made it very clear that we would like to be involved in discussing whether the municipalities have the right framework, for example. assess the location of religious buildings. It is not certain that this is a change in the law of plans, but it may be that it requires a change in the law of plans in order to give more local government over, for example. construction of religious buildings. That, as I said in my speech, is also something that the Minister for Industry is looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191721	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191721-2	I just think it is important that something is done instead of hearing such more or less whiny statements that it is unfortunate that there are these presumptuous prayer calls and so on. Then I just think it would be a good idea to act and actually do something, so we have an opportunity to defend our national culture instead of letting us roll over and invade. I also think that there is something beautiful about exactly defending ourselves instead of banning, that is to say, creating a positive agenda, saying that this should stay here, which means that you don't have to say no to so much, because you can just say yes to your own.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191804	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191804-2	Well, to the end, I agree with that, which is why I am also glad that the proposal says: 'To safeguard and preserve the Danish cultural tradition in public spaces, and that it does not say: 'To ensure that mosques do not arise in public spaces'. Because I think that if we now have 300,000 people who are immigrants from countries where the majority of the population profess Islam, then it is also natural that they otherwise want to practice their faith and we have freedom of religion that there is also the possibility of having a mosque in Denmark. This does not mean that mosques and churches should be treated equally; it just means that it is also part of the fact that there is freedom of religion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191841	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191842	Well, then, I really do not understand why the Minister is not just expressing his full support for this proposal. Now most of the day we have been meeting here in Parliament, and this is actually the first time, now quarter past seven, that the Minister cannot avail himself of international conventions to apologize for voting against a proposal, and I think that must be nice for the Minister. Well, at last you can knock out your arms and say: yes, now I mean something, and I must also mean it. But then the minister chooses not to mean anything, and that's a little weird. Why not seize this positive agenda, which Mrs Marie Krarup has raised, and say: yes, this country is Denmark, it is built by Danes for more than a thousand years, and that culture, that tradition and that history of course we must be proud of, and that must be seen, and we are now writing into a law where it is required that of all that is done in public space, Danish culture should take precedence? What could be more natural, what could be more beautiful?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217191944	I can hear you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that he has not, like me, participated in all the debates since kl. 10.00, i.e. for the last 9 hours and 20 minutes, and I understand that too. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't. For example: We have just had a resolution on social control, and that discussion was not about international conventions. But I also believe, and this is the real question here, that if you read the observations of the resolution, you will see that it is not clear at all, it certainly does not do so to me, exactly what it is imposed on the government if you adopt this motion for a resolution. It ends with: • Therefore, the Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the necessary legislative steps so that Danish culture is not displaced from public space, and so general permissions cannot be distorted and used as a cover for religious movements. It seems to me that it tends towards many different pieces of legislation, divided into many different areas of government, and that is why, when I was preparing this debate, I also chose to interpret it as a more general discussion of how to preserve the Danish expression in the public space more than as a specific proposal for a specific law to be put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192054	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192055	I believe that in the proposal there is a very specific reference to the law of plans, and I think that it is Article 15 of the law of plans, and, more specifically, it is hardly possible to say that in Denmark Danish culture takes precedence. This means that when municipalities have to organise their local plans and regional planning, etc. etc., yes, then you know that what takes precedence is the Danish churches, the Danish castles, what carries the Danish history, it is Dannebrog etc., everything that unites us across political differences. It can't be more beautiful. Surely that cannot be so difficult to understand. So again: Why does the minister seize that even during the previous debate has had time to think about things when he came out of his conventional swarms not just the chance and says: Yes, that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192141	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192141-2	It is true that section 15 of the Planning Act is a very specific place to point out, and thank you for that. But what may be a little more difficult as legislators to regulate is what we understand by Danish culture and Danish values. In any case, this could quickly become a rather abstract discussion. As I also said in my consultation speech, and as both the Minister for Industry and I said in the consultation that we took part in, we are prepared to discuss how the municipalities will have better governance with where religious activities in their municipality lie. It is not certain that it is the law of plans that is the instrument. The Minister of Business is investigating this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192220	There are no further brief comments and we can therefore thank the Minister. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192258	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that Danish cultural tradition should be supported by legislation and not crowded out in public spaces in relation to physical changes, sounds and influences on the surrounding environment. First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this resolution and for the fact that you are putting it forward. Because it is important for us politically to ensure that Danish cultural heritage is protected and preserved for the benefit of future generations as well. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also opposed, for example, to high Islamic prayer calls, which were part of what we heard earlier this year, from large speakers who forced everyone nearby to listen to them. In order to become a little more concrete, apart from this resistance, we also have an objective to reduce the proportion of people originating in the Middle East in residential areas, schools and day-to-day services, so that they are better distributed in the country and so that there is a greater chance that integration can succeed when you can live together instead of living next to each other, where some will live in a parallel society. It will ensure that Danish democratic values are overweight, and it will ensure that you are introduced to Danish culture and feel that you live in Denmark and not in North Africa or elsewhere. There are various elements in our 2018 aliens' initiative that the Danish People's Party has been kind enough to show a great deal of interest in, not least earlier today at a query debate. They will also have relevance in this context, and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss them again in this Chamber on other occasions. They will make a difference in terms of preserving Denmark, as we know it, and in terms of preserving Danish cultural heritage. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support this specific motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192502	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192505	I have to admit, I didn't quite understand the end. What was the background on which it could not be supported? There is, of course, a very specific reference to section 15 of the Planning Act. 2, where we propose to include the retention of the Danish cultural tradition as something that must be taken into account when making local plans. In other words, instead of just having to take account of archaeological things and cases, things that are physically located and have historical value, one must also take into account the general cultural tradition. So that means that noisy Islamic prayer calls would clearly not fall under it, and it would be quite easy to say that it should not be present here. What does the rapporteur think is wrong in that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192555	I think that now that the motion for a resolution has been tabled and we are discussing it in such a context as that of a rapporteur for foreigners, it is more value-policy aspects that we are discussing here. I imagine that, if it was the law of plans that we had to discuss in detail, it should be in connection with the Committee on Industry and the Minister for Industry. But I would like to say that I only have sympathy for the idea of ensuring that Danish cultural heritage and tradition are preserved when revising the law on plans. I can't say anything negative about those thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192632	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192632-2	So if I make sure that we have a second reading in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the government and the Social Democrats support this resolution? So it is only a question of my having been so ill-advised to elect a wrong committee to table the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192650	I would never say that Mrs Marie Krarup was ill-advised. So, no, that's not quite what I think you could deduce from what I said. What I mean is that I understood it as if it were more a matter of principle, the attitudes and values of our cultural heritage that the Danish People's Party wanted to discuss, and I imagine that if it were a more technical discussion about how a new law of design should be knitted together, perhaps it was the Minister of Industry who would discuss it with. Anyway, okay, I have sympathy for thinking no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192721	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192723	Now, sir. Rasmus Stoklund took part in most of the consultations and debates in which Mrs Marie Krarup and myself took part on the problems mentioned by Mrs Marie Krarup with Islamisation, prayer calls, etc. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this matter. Rasmus Stoklund. I also think that the reasons for the proposal mention a specific consultation, in which I recall that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund was present. That is why it is a little strange that the Social Democrat rapporteur is taking such a step-motherly approach to this proposal. It is fundamental that we want to preserve Denmark as a Danish country, not only in relation to the population composition and what is going on inside the head and inside the hearts, or where it is, on both those who live here and the newcomers, but also in the visual appearance of the country. Well, we don't want all these minarets and mosques and prayer calls, etc. We want a law which simply states that Danish culture takes precedence, that it has primacy. Why not just embrace it? What is so against the Socialist Group in the European Parliament by writing it? Are you opposed to Danish culture taking precedence in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192827	No, because of course Danish culture has it. In other words, we are in Denmark, so we do not have to write into any legislation; that is the way it is. We are then showing it by action, and after all it has to count more than, what to say, value-policy blows in the air. I think that a specific place where we show it by action is the current Financial Law Agreement that has just been concluded. I have brought with me a few figures, and some of the things that we prioritise with quite considerable amounts are when you go down the list: The Old Town in Aarhus, Denmark's Entertainment Orchestra, Gammel Estrup, Denmark's Herregård Museum, Dybbøl Mølle, Danish Jewish Museum, Fregatten Jutland, Den Danske Dictionary and Team Denmark. In other words, there is a lot of focus on Danish cultural heritage in the finance agreement we have just landed with a number of other parties, and that is because we want to support some of the places where we as a small country must make an effort, and not least also cancel the savings on Denmark's Radio, so that we have a solid Danish public service that can face the major media giants in the world, who will not take such separate Danish considerations into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192937	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217192938	It is wonderful with more money for both Dybbøl Mølle and many of the other things, except Denmark's Radio, which the rapporteur mentions, but it just has nothing to do with the matter. What we are dealing with here in concrete terms is that if there is a town council that has to draw up a new local plan, and a majority of the city council has it that they do not want those mosques, it is a problem today because we have to treat it equally. But if we write into the law of plans that Danish culture and cultural features in the landscape take precedence, there is suddenly a legitimate right to say that you don't want those mosques or you don't want minarets or you don't want prayer calls or whatever it may be. This whole debate has been held by Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has been a part of with the rest of us, but he is just not willing to do what it takes to realize what he says he wants to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193018	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193020	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is also aware of the fact that we have freedom of religion in Denmark, which is why I hope and believe, and I think that is a real and sensible call, and I also know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mrs Krarup have pointed this out in some of the consultations that we have participated in, that when a new piece of legislation is drawn up, it is something that we can hopefully take into account, that is, how to ensure that the expression of new mosques, for example, does not become such that it will dominate the public space in that place, and that it is therefore ensured that some rules are laid down as to what the law of plans should be like, so that we do not get into a situation where, for example, there could be a, what I know, very left-wing city council, who could decide that they would like to have a mosque with minarets who played prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund and may proceed to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193135	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that we in the Left believe that this is a very sensible resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. There are some technical challenges with it, and we have been a little into it with the law of plans and so on. We are in an area which is very much in a position to settle. But that is sensible because there are some ideas in it which we in the Left share. When it comes to loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls and similar religious statements in public space, the Left agrees with the proposers that it does not belong in Denmark. We would very much like to see, when you have the opportunity to revise the law on plans, you get something into the law on plans so that we can get rid of this. We have also been in the Chamber on this in the past. We are also concerned that there are environments in Denmark with anti-democratic and fundamentalist ideas. The fact that people do not respect Danish values and Danish culture is something to which we as a society must of course say very clearly no. However, we also have freedom of religion in Denmark, and religious freedom then belongs to the right to practice its own customs as long as it does not conflict with the law, as long as it does not make noise in public spaces and violates the fundamental values of Danish society. We in the Left are not so concerned about what the religious building looks like; on the other hand, we are very concerned about what is being said inside it. That must be what we're focusing on. But it goes without saying, of course, that if there are anti-democratic and extremist forces behind mosques and Koran schools, it has nothing to do in Denmark, not because of the buildings, but because of what is happening inside them. In Denmark, the Danish National Church has a privileged status, it is constitutionally guaranteed. This special status is often legitimised by reference to the anchoring of historical Christian Danish culture in society, and we believe that there is something here that we should be very careful about, but it is a value struggle, more than it is a battle on architecture. There is a lot we could do just a few hundred meters away if we were to make it such an architectural value struggle in our society. The additional state control that must be included in the law of plans must go on what we have previously agreed on, namely prayer calls, more than on the architectural expression itself. And, as I said, it is settled, and as I remember, the Danish People's Party was included in it back in 2016 together with the Social Democracy and the previous government, and it must then be in the circle that you have to look at whether you want to change that settlement if you want to go down that trail. When it comes to the architectural expression itself, we believe that it must be up to the municipalities themselves to decide on this. Therefore, without having to completely reject everything in this proposal, there are some reasons why we in the Left have some problems with the proposal, although we would very much like to use it as a tool to address prayer calls in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193500	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193504	I do not quite understand what makes it quite impossible for the Left to support this. These are technicalities that I cannot quite understand. But I would just like to say that this has nothing to do with freedom of religion. We are certainly not attacking freedom of religion. It has nothing to do with a ban on mosques either. We are not attacking mosques, but we are attacking mosques, and we do not want there, for example. are calls from minarets. This proposal would be able to prevent it if it were adopted. But so it is a technicality that we have to take it up in a conciliation circle, which means that we do not want to support the motion for a resolution. That is how we have to understand it. Because, as I hear the rapporteur from the Left, we agree on the content. I would also like to say that this is not, of course, aimed at architecture either. It is aimed at things that are foreign, which do not belong to Danish culture. It can, for example, be done. It is a question of a very dominant architecture, for example. in a village, and it may also be about prayer calling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193611-2	In other words, the part that concerns prayer calls is, as I have said, very attentive to it, and we would like to promise it, including with the conciliation circle that made the plan-law agreement and which DF itself is part of. As far as the part about dominant religious architecture is concerned, it is somewhat unclear to me how we should go down that path. However, as I said, we are very positive about having limited speaker-enhanced prayer calls in the public space in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193647	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193647-2	What the proposal is all about is that we can write in the bill that maintaining the Danish cultural tradition should be something that can determine how you make your local plan, so that you can say that a given thing is a prayer call, a storm mosque or a Koran school, you cannot have in your area with reference to what is in the law of plans that you are entitled to say yes or no to something, because we want to maintain the Danish cultural tradition. It will be a starting point for the municipalities to be able to interpret what in their context is a retention of the traditional Danish tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193724-2	My answer is that we in the Left are probably more interested in a change of the law of plans towards the fact that, with regard to what you want to hit, you are specifically going for loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193740	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193742	It is very disappointing to hear that the rapporteur of the Left has no sense at all here that a country should, of course, bear the mark of its culture, its history and its tradition, but is concerned only with regulating a single problem, namely prayer calls. I remember that we too ca. Ten years ago, the debate about the Danish cannon, which emphasized how the landscape should be recognizable, had to be marked by the tradition that is between generations, which I thought, in my view, that a party that on festive occasions mentions both Kold, Grundtvig and others might have a little sense of. It is very disappointing what we are facing here. Well, what it's all about is that you have to recognize your country, and it's even a day when we just won that case over at Nyborg Castle. In the case of the crazy people who would make Nyborg Castle a complete freak of modernity, the conservative national mentality has won, and on that day the Left then chooses to jump out as cultural radicals. That's not very uplifting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193839	I mean, I do not see any of what I have said here on the platform as such a kneel to cultural radicalism. I'm really sorry if Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt hears it in some of the things I've said. I would just like to say that what lies in the part of the draft law dealing with the building, and thus belongs to a different rapporteur than my own, is somewhat uncertain, and we in the Left generally have a problem with it, but we would very much like to take part in raising the part that concerns the religious aspect, which is about the dominant behaviour experienced with loud prayer calls in public space. And I think that is a very important step to get to grips with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193923	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217193925	We won't disagree there. But there's nothing knocking at all in Mr. Knox's office. Mads Birde's heart in relation to the preservation of Danish cultural history, in relation to the recognition of one's country? Then we'll just have to be able to shave a castle, for example. Rosenborg Castle, down if we need to build a new cogeneration plant? No, it's part of Danish culture and part of our history. And precisely because we are surrounded by quite powerful cultural radical types both in the government and in all sorts of institutes around, which try to remove the Danish culture, cast statues into the water, paint statues, and what do I know we need a law that says that in Denmark Danish culture takes precedence. Who in the Left is against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194003	But all that is referred to, I think, is already laid down in the law of plans with its safeguards of historical values. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself mentions the case from Nyborg, which is a good example of how it is covered by the current law on plans. So it may be that I am also the one who needs to learn more about what it is that you want more with this proposal from the Danish People's Party. For what I have concerns about the displacement of historical images in the Danish landscape, also in the form of buildings, I think is covered by the current plan law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194043	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194044	Now I think it's getting late on the night for Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, but we'll have to take that with us. I would just like to ask: what is the problem with the existence of a style of cultural radicalism? I don't know what a building like that looks like, but we're gonna have to try to talk about that. Is it not okay that we have classicistic, romantic and baroque styles that have been taken from, yes, where did it come from, Russia, Germany, France, Italy, and that it stays standing? There is nothing really just Danish that is Danish. Well, there's a mix of culture in our society, and that's probably why we like the society we live in and the buildings. Some people then like one kind, and others like the other kind best. I haven't heard anyone yet who wants to remove Rosenborg Castle. Well, I haven't seen that plan realized. I have heard that Morten Messerschmidt could imagine that someone could think of it, but I have never heard any sober politicians say anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194149	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194151	In other words, I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. I also believe that I have indicated that we do not see a need for a fight with architectural expressions. We have seen a need for a fight with prayer calls in the public room, but we do not care much about what the buildings look like. But if something is going on inside those who are anti-democratic or otherwise contrary to Danish values, it is a matter we would like to raise. It just doesn't have much to do with the law of plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194227	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194228	Now it is not the right rapporteur to ask, but I cannot at all imagine how one could get one, what should one say, the cultural police, who should decide whether it now fits into the one-way view of culture of the Danish People's Party. And who would decide whether it was the 17th century building from the 1800s or the 1500s that was the right one to preserve? It is actually a copy of a French castle, but it happens to be in Denmark. I do not understand how such a system or such a law can work at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194303	Well, I think that is a very reasonable objection, and it runs a great deal with my own attitude up here from the platform, in other words the position of the Left on the same issue. But with my hand on my heart I would like to point out that not much has been built in Denmark, which is really pretty since 1950, and it is worth including.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194349	Thank you for that, President. The resolution here lacks Danish traditions in public space. There is a call for a change in the legislative framework for this, but there is no mention of what exactly needs to be changed, so this might make the debate a bit difficult. But I have to admit that when I look around the public room at the moment, I actually see lots of Danish cultural tradition... Christmas decorations, Christmas trees, Christmas lights, I love it... even though the corona this year makes it impossible to go out and enjoy the public space in the same way. So I see plenty of Danish tradition in public space, and I like that, and it is certainly not displaced. So what do the proposers really want? This appears somewhat unclear, but we may be wiser when the proposers themselves go to the platform. In the questions that have been raised so far, it is so little that it may be about the law of plans, as the authors have expressed themselves, i.e. local plans in relation to the law of plans, which is under the municipal autonomy in which the Radical Left certainly does not want to change, because we have full confidence in the local promotion of Danish cultural heritage. I would like to admit that municipal local plans and supplements to local plans, and not least the four-year municipal plans, which provide the planning framework for a municipality, are super exciting. I myself have been in a town council for 11 years, but basically I think that the fact that local town councils and municipal councils decide them is the right thing, because they know about local conditions and know best what fits in. Therefore, if the proposers want influence on the implementation of the law of plans, on local levels and everything else in the local community, I would like to say as a service announcement that there are municipal elections on 16 November, and there you can stand up if you want to change some of those things. If you think that Danish cultural heritage is not being sufficiently promoted in a local community, or there are other things you want to change, you just have to run for local elections. There are plenty of options to change that. Then you can change everything you want, implement the law of plans and get culture in public space. There are plenty of possibilities for that. So, in summary, the Radical Left cannot support this proposal which, in its simplicity, imposes something on anyone without being able to see what is actually being imposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194643	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194648	I think it is a pity if the rapporteur has not been able to sort out what this is all about. But I hope that will come in the course of the debate here. I think it is touching to hear how much the rapporteur likes Danish cultural manifestations in public space. For the rapporteur's party has otherwise supported massive immigration from countries which are culturally alien to Denmark, so that we have residential areas, such as Denmark. is not marked by Christmas decorations and where you have removed the Christmas trees because you are not Christian and you are not celebrating this holiday. So if the rapporteur really really liked these manifestations of Danish and Christian culture, then it might be a good idea to support this motion for a resolution, which will make it possible to include it in the law of plans, to take account of Danish national culture and thus, for example, to include it in the law of plans. could say that one does not want an Islamic decorating of the streets, but that one wants a Christian Christmas decoration of the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194754	Thank you for the question. Now I don't know a hundred percent whether it would make sense to put into the law of plans whether you should have a Christmas tree in a particular place. I think that goes a long way, and I am confident that you will do so where you feel the need to set up a Christmas tree. It is true that there was a case at a time in my own municipality area where a Christmas tree was not just set up, as was customary. But it changed a few weeks later, and there has been a Christmas tree annually since then. So this is an example of how you can solve it here without the need for major changes to the law of plans, and where you can make a difference locally, you also do so and there is no need for further interference. Danish tradition and culture and cultural heritage, which are important, are able to handle locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194847	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194848	But that is just not true, and that is why we are tabling this resolution. Because we have just received a reply from the Minister for Industry that it is not possible to ban, for example. prayer calls because it is not inscribed in the law of plans, and that is why we want this inscribed. For then prayer calls can be banned and, of course, you will also be able to interpret traditional Danish culture in other ways, such as avoiding the removal of the Christmas tree and other things. It depends on how each city council will interpret these provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194922-2	If prayer calls were so at the heart of this resolution, I would recommend to another time that it be included in what is being imposed on the government itself, because that does not appear there. There you put it a little bit into some lines, without it clearly being defined that this is what is imposed. That is why the motion for a resolution makes it somewhat unclear what the motion for a resolution really wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194949	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217194952	I noted with great interest that Mr. Kristian Hegaard argued against this proposal, on the basis that decisions of this nature should be in the city councils; we in the Folketing should not deal with that. Now it is the case that if you look up Section 1 of the Plan Act today, you can see that some specific interests are mentioned in the purpose clause. It is about the nature of the country, it is about the environment and a good framework for growth and development. Why can't it just as well be out in the municipalities? Why is it that the Radical Left apparently supports a law in which nature and the environment must be taken into account nationally, but when it comes to something as natural as Danish culture, Christianity, etc., it is something that the Folketing must keep completely away from? Why that bias?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195036	I am fully confident that the local elected members of the municipal councils, whether they represent the Danish People's Party or the Radical Left, know what is most important in the local area • how to promote cultural heritage in that particular area. For my part, I can say that in the municipality of Fredensborg, where I myself am on the town council and will be re-launching in November, the Radical Left has had a decisive influence on maintaining some of the special historical buildings that are in the municipality, and not just tearing them down and leaving room for everything else to be built. This is a concrete example of how Danish cultural heritage and Danish culture can be promoted locally in public spaces. It is the local link that best knows, and they must remain free to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195124	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195124-2	But now I understand the Radical Left in general and Mr. Kristian Hegaard in particular as a party and a person who is very concerned about equality and proper regulatory framework. Since we in the planning law today in § 1 have a consideration of the environment and nature and growth, how can one argue against the inclusion of a consideration of Danish culture and Christianity in saying that it must be dealt with by the municipalities? Then the consequence must also be that Mr. Kristian Hegaard is in favour of removing consideration for nature, environment and growth in the law of plans today. Otherwise, sir. Kristian Hegaard says, yes, completely inconsistent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195201-2	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is quite right in saying that I am very concerned about both equality and fairness in legislation. That is why I am delighted that there is a free opportunity for you to choose locally in the way you yourself think best according to local circumstances to give priority to cultural heritage, precisely to give priority to Danish traditions and values in public spaces. I am confident that you are good at traveling and giving priority to local people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195232	There are no more brief comments. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Kristian Hegaard and can go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195250	Thank you, President. I guess I'm gonna have to drink off first. If I have understood the motion for a resolution correctly, the authors propose that the Danish cultural tradition should be included in the legislation on plans so that certain activities which do not comply with Christian culture can be banned. The basic principle of the Planning Act is that local planning must not be based on what is called untrue considerations. For example, a careless consideration is to regulate which groups of people are allowed to visit or use a property. Thus, the law on planning must not regulate on the basis of the age, sex or religious affiliation of certain groups of users. It is therefore not possible for local planning to impose a direct ban on certain religious activities, which is what I understand the motion for a resolution proposes. In the SF, we believe that we should uphold local democracy. We do not think that we from Christiansborg should go in and regulate and dictate in this way. It is also important to remember that in Denmark we have freedom of religion, which means that we must practise the same religion as we want. We believe that legislation such as this could be inconsistent with this fundamental right of freedom, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195436	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195438	I just think it sounds as if you are misreading the proposal, because it is a protection of the Danish cultural tradition, and the Danish cultural tradition is based on Christianity. That is why church bells can make noise in Denmark, and there are no rules against that. But we want it, for example. are prohibited from making prayer calls or being forbidden to build very dominant, large, Middle Eastern-looking buildings, so that they dominate a local area. But it is the consideration of the cultural tradition that we want written in. This is not a ban on certain people moving in the area, of course not. I do not really understand why the rapporteur thinks this is wrong. After all, it will be every city council that will be able to use this to regulate the problems that are in their area or the challenges that are in their area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195543	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195544	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. In other words, the municipalities have the possibility of both planning, but also of limiting activities. The municipalities already have the opportunity to do so today. And we must, of course, combat activities aimed at creating parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195612	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195613	That's exactly what this is going to give us. So it's a really good argument for being in favour of this, because it will just make it harder to create parallel societies, because you get an opportunity to say that that activity or that building or school, or whatever it is, we don't want to have in our local area because it creates parallel societies because it challenges the Danish cultural tradition in our area, for example. Prayer call.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195652	So, I would say that in the SF we have voted on a number of proposals aimed at combating parallel societies, including extremism, women's oppression, crime, and what else lies in the parallel social mentality and idea. But we also need to safeguard freedom of religion. It is a fundamental value of our constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195722	We thank Halime Oguz. There are no more brief comments. And we can move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217195746	A hundred years ago, the cleaning women, as it was then called, formed the Houseworker Federation. They cleaned up, and they did a lot of housework and got paid for it. They later became members of the FOA, and I think they would be proud to see how many people are practicing to join that union these days when we are drinking and cleaning. It is good that we do not have to do everything ourselves, and it is good that we have some good people here in the Folketing who can help us with it. I also grope a little blindly, in terms of what the real purpose of this is. There are two reasons for this. First of all, I don't understand what DF means. Secondly, I think we disagree on some basic principles, for example. If there is one There are some are Christians, some are different, and some are nothing at all. I think that the proposal can be seen as a brazen one, for example. Jewish culture, Catholic tradition and, of course, Muslim building style, if there is one. However, I see that it is a proposal to get the debate back through the back door and the debate we have had on prayer calls again. But thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am extremely opposed to extreme religions and ideologies, especially authoritarian and dominant religions and ideologies. I am also opposed to presumptuous noise, whether it is a rock concert that is turned up completely on the extreme, whether it is high ringing from a folk church, or whether it is prayer calling when it is annoying and unpleasant in public space. I guess that's the point of this proposal. I guess you're not supposed to use that kind of thing to fight a religion and say that we're gonna drive in here when we can't ban it somehow. That's how I see it. I would say that I am also opposed to presumptuous noise from, for example. a highway. I have just been burdened with this in my colonial garden, and I have protested strongly against it. I'm also tired of motor sports interfering on a Sunday if the sound is too loud. But we don't forbid rock music, even though some have called it diabolical, but we ask that it be played so that other people who don't like rock music and better like quiet folk music can also be there. And we set limits on when to play loud music and when to play your motorsports and also when to call the bells. In a society with many cultures and a free and open relationship with other cultures one must surely show a little spaciousness and believe that the fight against religions is about formation and belief in their own strength in arguments and not bans. I am not associated with any religion and do not blame anyone for being so. I am delighted that other people are happy to be part of, to be behind, or to be part of a religion, and I will fight for your right to continue to feel that way. The Danish National Church, the Catholic Church and a number of other religions have drawn a trail throughout history of blood, oppression and unacceptable acts. They have not brought democracy with them. On the contrary, it is the struggle among the common people against the power of the Church and other rulers who have created the democratic, free and open society that we have. Not least the workers' movement has meant decisive changes, and these are the ones on which we live very much. We must be happy about that, and we must safeguard it. Humans' right to cultivate their own faith is important as long as it does not affect others in terms of violence, oppression, witch burning, circumcision, child abuse, etc. etc. We have the right to build a new and exciting society, and we must not only build, as we did in the 1700s or 1600s or in the 1500s. Besides, they're not even Danish. They have been stolen from Germany, France, Italy, Russia and where otherwise something beautiful could be found to be inspired by, and I hope that will happen in the future too, otherwise we will have a dull, monotonous society. I am calling for spaciousness and I am calling for the proposers to dare to believe in their own values in an equal and open meeting with other cultures. I am not afraid to meet other cultures, and I believe that my culture can easily meet with others and is strong enough to survive, and I think the proposers should have so much confidence in that, in other words, they could believe in their own arguments and their own culture and their own religion. So I'm looking for objective arguments when we're discussing this. I think it is very bloodless to say that we do not want what we do not like in the Danish term. Well, we can't make a society after what the Danish People's Party thinks our streets and straits should look like. We have to say that this is something we do together, that taste and pleasure, religion, culture and tradition are different and that we look at things differently. I would ask you to respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200255	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200259	It's unbelievable, though. Christian Juhl is reading into this motion for a resolution which is not there at all. We are in favour of freedom of religion. We do not want to pursue a particular religion. We do not want to ban Islam. We would like Islam not to be present in Denmark, but we do not believe that it is possible under the Constitution to ban Islam. But we do not want an Islamisation of Danish society. That is why we believe that this rewrite of the law of plans, or that we include a new consideration in the law of plans, will be a good tool for individual municipalities to resist the Islamicisation of the public space which sneaks in, for example. building of mosques or exclamations of prayer calls from minarets. It is not possible to say no right now. That would be on the basis of a revised law of plans, and that is what this is all about. And I don't understand why you have to be so furious about that. It would be a shame to get a minarette like that up and down your windows. I do not think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur would think that was funny either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200413	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200413-2	There is no room for that in front of my windows, for there the municipality has built a machine hall in something that was supposed to be modern architecture, but which then looks like some tin plates. I was sick of that, but I was in the minority when we had to protest to the municipality. That is the way it is, and I must respect the majority. I can't make a law that says I don't want such a wall in front of me that I only want it Now we have some new and modern buildings at the library along with some beautiful and some old ones. I'm enjoying both, so long as it doesn't take all the sun out of my windows. But we are so different, and that is where we must try to adapt. I think that the law on plans has a democratic element in which there are consultation periods, and I have actually helped prevent many things in our town that were foolish planning, for example. large shopping stamps, i.e. these shopping malls, which, by God, are awful to look at and also a sign of some of the least we have in our society, namely attitudelessness and one-sided pursuit of material values.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200523	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200524	But now it is just the case that, as the legislation is today, we are told by the Minister for Industry that it is not possible to say no to minarets with prayer calls through the law of plans, because there is no reason to defend the Danish culture in the law of plans. Or rather, we say that if it were included in the law of plans, it would be possible to say no. That'd be great. This can then be done on a democratic basis around the individual municipalities. I do not see anything at all calling into question democracy or all the fine values that the rapporteur has just expressed in that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200604	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200605	Well, that's exactly what the law of plan allows, that is to say, to plan appropriately, so if there's going to be a minaret or some other religious building somewhere, then they can be put outside the city. For example, I was... for a voter meeting in Roskilde in such a building, and it was laid outside the city. It was a free church that had put it there in an industrial area, and I don't think that ringing and the things that were there bothered anyone. They weren't at work at the time anyway. Besides, there is regulation of the church bell ringing, of motor tracks and of all sorts of others. The municipalities have the right to say that this can be done under the conditions and conditions and at the times and maximum with the decibels and the decibels. So there are plenty of regulatory options, so that is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200650	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200651	Now it was a rather infamous interpretation of the history of Christianity that we witnessed here from Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I would say that I can think of political ideologies, as Mr. Christian Juhl himself is close to having a rather bloodier story, but we can take that on another occasion. What might actually be interesting to get an answer to is whether Mr. Christian Juhl is a democrat at all, that is to say about Mr. Christian Juhl is prepared that if a majority in a city council wants to ban prayer calls, then they should be given the opportunity to do so. Because, as the legislation is now in place, you cannot. It's not very democratic. So it would be nice to know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is in favour of us amending the legislation so that a majority of a city council somewhere in the country can say: prayer, no thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200738	No, I am in favour of regulating it and finding out when it is appropriate. Because I am so spacious a human being that I think that the different cultures should have their place. And then we should try to consider each other so that a large group of people do not get annoyed and upset all the time because it makes noise and makes noise or otherwise bothers. Well, we can figure that out. We have always been able to find out about all kinds of cultures and all kinds of religions, and I think we should be able to do so in the future too. So I actually think there are opportunities. I know the debate very well. I myself was in the debate last time about all this prayer call, and I think it is a rather strange debate and it has nothing to do with Danish culture. It has something to do with the fact that you don't like people who make prayer calls. That is the only thing in it, which is why it gets a little flat when we discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200825	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200825-2	I don't know if I like people who make prayer calls. I just don't think they should be in Denmark. They can do that in their own countries. It is clear that Islamic prayer calls have nothing to do in Denmark. That seems perfectly natural to me. That is why it is also natural, if you are a democrat, to agree to change the legislation so that a majority in a city council can implement it. So I just have to understand, sir. Christian Juhl accepts it because he himself believes that his own views take precedence over what the majority of a city council might think to be undemocratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200903	No, it's the other way around. The Danish People's Party has a very one-sided view of this, and if it does not fit with the culture of the Danish People's Party, then it is undemocratic. What if we all said that? I have it that both DF's views and my views and some very third views must be accommodated, and both a Christian culture and a Muslim culture must be accommodated, both in terms of sound and building, and we can easily find out. That is why we have such a beautiful and wonderful society, namely because we have just lived with diversity and have a constitution that allows for that diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200937	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217200954	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party. I think it has been very, very interesting reading. There is a lot of this that reflects things that we have already discussed in Parliament and that we Conservatives agree with. In other words, the whole preservation of Danish culture goes without saying that this is something we Conservatives wholeheartedly support. There were some parts here that we have already discussed, for example. the part about prayer calling. That's where we're touchingly agreed. Noisy prayer calls with a loudspeaker have been part of our own proposal to be banned. Of course, we support that. But when we look at this proposal as a whole, we have a challenge because it consists of a lot of individual parts. The rapporteur himself said that we must preserve the Christmas tree in owners' associations, that we must change the law of plans, that we must be able to regulate in relation to book clubs, and then there is the call for prayer. The reason we can't support this is because I'm having a hard time seeing this translate into a bill. What kind of bill is this supposed to be? So what we would much rather say is that let us discuss prayer calls. We already have. We ourselves have been involved in proposing this. And then let's make legislation about it. If the law of plans is to be amended, let us make a proposal on it separately. However, we find that difficult to see legally feasible in a single legislative proposal, and that is the only reason why we cannot support it. Because, of course, we care about preserving Danish culture. I am annoyed that we cannot support it, because when I hear, for example, I hear it. The things Enhedslisten uses as a reason why they can't support it, at least it's the virtually diametrically opposite. Church critics and their historical influences and a blood trail of the Catholic Church are said. Christianity is a cornerstone of Danish culture, and we must of course preserve it. So let's talk about these parts individually and then take it from here, but we can't support it because of the way this is worked together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201206	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201208	However, the Conservative People's Party can support an amendment to section 15 of the Schedule Act. 2, so that it is written into it that consideration of traditional Danish culture must weigh heavily when adopting local plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201225	I would like to see this as a real proposal, because here we are talking about prayer calls and we are talking about book clubs and there is talk about Christmas tree and there is talk about planning law. If it is the case that there is a real proposal for the precise law of plans, then I would very much like to take it to our group. The parts on e.g. Prayer calls have been part of our own proposal, so we would like to take that. But the way it's knitted together here, we can't support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201249	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201250	Well, then I'd hope I don't make a comma error when I come up with a suggestion to change §15. 2, in the law of plans, for then the Conservative People's Party might have a place to hang its hat, so that you can avoid preserving Danish culture, as has been done for many years, where you have not done enough to stop immigration. Because I think it is a pity, and I think it is really strange that one can call oneself the Conservative People's Party and then not support the fact that we have to register in the planning law that there has to be a consideration of the traditional Danish culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201326	With all due respect to Mrs Krarup, I would like to say that the best way of going about things here is if it is something tangible and not a lot of different things at once. Now, for example, we have. We have had a proposal, let us just say a ban on burka, but we must not say that, but a ban on masking, a ban on cover, and when the Danish People's Party has brought it up, there has been a debate. In the end, we actually got it through with the Conservatives and the Left. But when you do the very big thing and on the wide range, i.e. the preservation of Danish culture, then I find it difficult to see it as a bill. So I'd rather take these parts individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201359	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201401	I think there is something that suggests that the Danish People's Party should have made its homework a bit better and fleshed it out just a tiny bit. When virtually no party can understand what the meaning of this proposal is, there may be a small reason why the senders say it may be that it is also our fault. It doesn't have to be the fault of the recipients. Therefore, I think I would say: try to go home and do that work a little better. I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Conservatives whether he believes that Rosenborg Castle is a distinct Danish building culture? I want to fight to my death to keep it standing, because I want the story to stay standing. And there we have quite tough laws on which historic buildings should be overthrown and which should not be overthrown. I am very pleased that we have regulated it, whether or not it would seem undemocratic on Mr Tugendhat's part. Morten Messerschmidt. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that Rosenborg Castle is distinctly Danish building culture and architecture. I recognize that it is Danish construction workers who have partly built it, but can they say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201507	Now it will be a very interesting cultural discussion that we have here. It is certainly a cornerstone of Danish history and a cornerstone of the culture of the Danish capital. Then it is true that some of the building styles that exist are styles imported from Italy, from Germany, from France, from Sweden. But it is something that has become something Danish together. I do not want to say that there is nothing as Danish as Rosenborg, because that is perhaps too much said, but Rosenborg is certainly part of the Danish cultural heritage, despite the fact that it has inspiration from different places in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201542	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201543	Now we have managed to get the Conservative rapporteur to say the word that is important, namely Danish cultural heritage. For it is essential what has happened in the castle, what has happened around the castle, and what meaning the castle has had. That is what is essential. And that's why we have some tough legislation about those things, and that's why you can't overturn Rosenborg Castle. Even if you were Denmark's richest man, you probably weren't allowed to do that or woman for that matter. I am also thinking of the modern new sustainable building architecture that is emerging in these years, including for example. Tree houses and stuff like that. Is it Danish culture, or is it just a culture that develops, because we live in a time when it is now modern to have zero energy houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201628	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201629	I wish I knew everything that had happened in Rosenborg Castle over the ages. Then I think there would be some festive pictures on the retina. But as far as Danish culture is concerned, I think that where the rapporteur is going is that all of this has come from outside. I would say that what is a cornerstone of Danish culture, among other things. is Christianity, and that is why I share the concern with the Danish People's Party in relation to the Islamisation of Denmark. That is also why I am sympathetic to the proposal here, but I just think that there are too many lower parts in it to support it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201702	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201702-2	Well, I can assure you, sir. Marcus Knuth and others who have found hair in the soup that we will then come up with a new proposal so that the Conservative People's Party will have the opportunity to explain why it cannot be supported either. And it may also be that Mr. Christian Juhl is right that we have simply had too high expectations of the rapporteurs of the Things. Well, of course we had a thought that when there is a specific reference to section 15 of the Plan Act, paragraph 15 of the Plan Act. 2, then would go in and read section 15 of the Schedule Act. I would point out that there are almost 30 considerations which today are legitimate and so implicitly understand that what we want is to add the 29th consideration, which is therefore called the consideration of Danish culture. But if it has been too difficult to understand for Mr. Christian Juhl and others, of course, we do so in a more explicitly understandable way. What is the question for the Conservative People's Party is that since it is thus absolutely clear what we in the Danish People's Party would like to see and it seems to run a lot with it, Mr. Marcus Knuth says; and what has been concluded in the negotiations here is the interpretation of the proposal... it could then have Mr. Marcus Knuth to change his own position on the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201758	I am not quite sure that I understand the rapporteur correctly, but I maintain it now because there is so much. I'm sorry if I repeat myself here, but there's talk of book clubs and prayer calls and planning laws. That is why it is a very, very incalculable proposal to deal with. Now I used burkas myself as an example. If you say that we must ban all Islamisation of Denmark, it is not something tangible, but if we take something specific here are some burkas, we have a challenge with them, and that is why we are making legislation that adapts to it. But that's not the way this proposal is worked together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201835	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201836	The way this proposal is knitted together is exactly the way we have been instructed by government ministers because they have shot down all our other proposals to ban prayer calls. Then it is clear that we will then aim for the next prospect. In other words, what can be taken into account today in accordance with Article 15 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 is something like the size and boundaries of the property, road and path conditions, location and traces of wiring, other settlements, use of the individual buildings, requirement to 25 per cent. of the housing stock shall be general dwellings, etc. It is relatively manageable and quantifiable conditions. It should, of course, only be natural for a conservative mind to say yes to the inclusion of considerations of Danish culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201913	Well, I would like to say that the way in which it has actually been proposed in a very, very sensible way... and we also spent a lot of time looking at purely legal terms... is precisely the proposal that we have tried to make together with the Danish People's Party on, for example. to ban noisy Muslim prayer calls. It was a concrete proposal which has been in the Chamber and which I believe the Minister is actually working on. This is an example of how we actually support the intention in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217201936	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202005	Islam must have no influence in society. That is why foreign policy must be resolved from the bottom up. However, after decades of failed immigration policy, Islam has unfortunately gained influence, including in public space. It has to be stopped. The Islamic revival and culture must be pushed back, it must not be allowed to take root. Denmark is Danish. Minarets, mosques and prayer calls are not part of Danish culture. Therefore, New Citizens would very much like to support proposals and legislation that make it easier for politicians locally to prevent the construction and introduction of Islamic bridgeheads in Denmark. We admit, as others have also said today, that the proposal is a little vague. But when you hear what is being said in today's debate and when you know the law of plans and the challenges it presents to the municipalities in terms of limiting the construction of mosques, then you understand why this is necessary here. The only question is whether that is enough. For New Citizens it is at least as important what is going on inside the buildings as what the buildings look like. And yes, it's an architect who says this. But when I say it, it's because we, among other things. in Helsingør has a dazzling candidate for the municipal elections, who has spent huge amounts of time exposing fake mosques in Helsingør; cultural institutions which have been allowed to be built under the guise of being cultural houses; which have been supported by the public under the guise of being cultural houses but which actually turn out to be mosques. So we have a problem and we have a problem when the municipalities out there and the local politicians out there say that that is not what we said yes to. And then they say from in here that we cannot distinguish, as the law of plans stands today, whether it is a cultural institution that is allowed or whether it is a mosque. I do not think that is the intention of the planning law, and I think it is true of DF that we have to strike down here and put in here. How this is to be put into practice and how to make Danish culture so precise that we do not end up in a situation where there will be an outcry about breaking with religious freedom, but at the same time preventing mosques, minarets and other things from appearing as Islamic bridgeheads under the guise of being cultural institutions, I am still wondering about. I hope we can continue to work on this proposal, but unfortunately I can hear now, there is no majority in favour of it. In fact, I think, if I am to be a little positive, that there are more parties than those who have expressed their support today in the Chamber, who share the wish, if they do not get this explained here. And perhaps one of the problems is, without saying that it is a wrong committee, it is the fact that in some parties you have rapporteurs who do not sit in all committees, and if you do not know the challenges that are in the planning law, it is not certain that you naturally and instinctively think that there is a problem here. If we could encourage the parties that I believe share the intention to go back to their rapporteurs in this area and say that if we could have a constructive approach to how we change the legislation, the law of plans, so that the municipalities have an opportunity to say no to what we would like to give them the opportunity to say no to, then I think that we can actually get greater support in committee for the proposal put forward by the DF, and that we can thus work further along a constructive path and, hopefully, put so much pressure on the government and the minister that we realise that this is a necessary tool at a time when Islam and Muslims have been allowed into our countries to far too much without being prepared for the consequences of cultural change. So in those words, New citizens support the proposal. We would very much like to help in the work of the committee to see if we can do this so precisely that more parties will back up. I think this is a good proposal, and I thank the DF for putting it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202453	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202455	Thank you for your support. We are, of course, pleased with this and we will come back with a more precise proposal to amend section 15 of the Schedule Act. 2. But I just want to say that I do not believe that this challenges freedom of religion. I do not think there is any problem with that. But I also believe that this proposal is not enough to need Islam in the defensive in public space, unfortunately. However, the Danish People's Party has the strategy that we are putting forward a great deal of, a large number of resolutions in a large number of areas, and then some of it is going through and some of it is only moving the debate. And at some point there is a lot of it going through, and hopefully that way we can push back the Islamisation of our society. So this proposal is not meant as the final proposal that can do so. It is only one of the many, many proposals that hopefully can do so in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202556	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202558	Well, I totally agree with that. And it's not that I've seen it this way as a wonder drug that alone can keep the Islamic awakening, which is spreading in large parts of the world at the moment and has been doing it for decades now, out of Denmark and ensuring that it doesn't take root. However, I think it points to some of the specific problems we have talked about before the summer holidays, where we have municipalities that do not have the legislation needed to distinguish them. I see that we have challenges, not least in the municipality of Elsinore, where I live, where local politicians say: We don't have these tools. Even the Conservative mayor says: we cannot, as the law has been knitted together today. That is why I think it is a welcome proposal. And it wasn't to belittle it or anything, but I just know that when we talk about these things, there is often opposition from people who say that we are now going against religious freedom. I do not think we need to do that if the proposal is drawn up properly, nor do I see it being done in this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202703	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202705	Islam should not have influence in secular society. I agree with that. I don't want any religions to do that. Religion is a private matter that the individual must resolve with his faith and his god and his priest. After all, we are no longer living in a Christian-controlled society, where secular society and democracy can only have a small corner. It's the other way around. We live in a secular society, a democracy in which we have freedom of belief written into our finest law, our constitution. That's why I don't understand these bends to try in a campaign against a single religion so to make it so universally valid and covered under some things. The bill of intent is sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who is unfortunately not here right now, read out the first paragraph which says that the size and location of the property should be taken into account. That then gives a fairly broad framework to say what kind of buildings you want lying where. We have a law on our history which also regulates what kind of buildings you have to take down and what kind of buildings you have to build next to, etc. We have a lot of options if we want to, and if we believe in our own culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202821	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202822	It is true that we live in a government of the people, but we also live in a government of the people that is rounded up by Christian values. We live in a democracy in which the church has special status. It's inscribed in the Constitution. Therefore, it is natural for me and for New Citizens that when we have a law of plans, we can set a framework and guidelines for the influence of religions in general, but we maintain that the church of the people, the Danish church of the people, has special status and therefore also have special privileges in Denmark. We must, of course, safeguard that. When it is particularly important to push Islam back, it is because there are no other religions in Denmark right now that are as invasive as Islam is, as imperialist as Islam is, and which are not just missions, but are actually threatening themselves in society, both to the general population, but especially to those who come with a Muslim background, but who may not be right-wing or unbelievers at all. And that must be prevented.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202929	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217202930	But then we may also have to learn from the criticism of Islam, so that we do not get those of the Danes who are Christians themselves falling into the same rightful belief that we are particularly right in this community. That is why I mention that we are a secular society. I feel as much as the Danish citizen as the rapporteur, who is probably a member of the church, I can hear, do. You do not have a special right because you are a member of the church, to influence or control other regions. You have the right to practice your religion. Then the church has been allowed to have the state levy its taxes, etc., and we also have to discuss the church here in Parliament how it should now be operated etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203024	It is quite true that, as a Christian, you do not have special rights that you do not have if you are not a Christian. But it is not true that the Danish National Church has no special privileges in Denmark compared to other denominations. It's just the fact that that's how our constitution is built, that's how our society is built. It is based on a story that is Christian. It is also true that the rule of the people has come forward and that Christianity in Denmark today is more of a thing that we have with us in the back seat, so in this way many experience that we live in a secular society. But it is a secular society that is rounded up by Christian values and not by either Islamic or Buddhist or anyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203111	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Since I do not see the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, it has become time to listen to the rapporteur from the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203126	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we are tired of cases of building storm mosques and of noisy Islamic prayer calls. We are tired of them because there is so much uncertainty about what you can do to avoid such things in local communities, and because each city council has to invent the deep plate to find out how to handle something that everyone can see doesn't belong in Denmark at all. Although we have a Muslim minority in Denmark, we should not have the country transformed into a copy of the Middle East. Denmark is a Christian country. There's a cross in the brook. Christianity has made its mark in the way we have shaped our society, and it puts its obvious physical and cultural traces in public space. Churches, for example, are... built so that they lie at the highest points of the landscape and are often subject to protection, so that new buildings and masters should not shadow this cultural heritage. It is right and proper that Danish culture and values leave their clear mark on our everyday lives, and they must continue to do so. During our attempts to get noisy Islamic prayer calls banned in Denmark, we received an interesting reply from the Minister of Business that prayer calls could not be banned because prayer calls were not included in section 15 of the Plan Act. 2, there is the paragraph that regulates what local plans may include. So because of this, each city council stands rather defenseless when it comes to making a local plan to contain prayer calls or some other form of Islamization of public space. Therefore, we had the idea that it should be included in the planning law that Denmark should, of course, be able to maintain its cultural traditions. Planning legislation deals with four national interests to be taken into account in particular. These are (1) growth and industrial development; (2) natural and environmental protection; (3) cultural heritage and landscape conservation; and (4) national and regional facilities. In the Danish People's Party we believe that maintaining the Danish cultural tradition should be a fundamental national consideration and thus be included in the planning legislation as the first of the special considerations that can be taken into account when drawing up a local plan for an area. The existing provisions aim to preserve special cultural heritage for posterity, but they do not take into account the fact that we must preserve Danish society and cultural activities for posterity. They are primarily aimed at buildings. The regulations are largely related to the regulation of the physical expression and, to a lesser extent, to the content or purpose of the activities to be carried out within the framework of the Planning Act. There is therefore a need for the law of plans to be amended, for example. in Section 15, paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e). 2, so local plans relate to ensuring the Danish cultural tradition, because it cannot be right that in Denmark, which is so much based on Christian democratic values, we cannot regulate and limit what our country should look like. In our opinion, it is crucial that Danish culture and Danish values become an overall consideration and that it can be regulated both nationally and locally, so for example. loudspeaker reinforced prayer calls do not take place without prior permission. We do not believe that this motion for a resolution is in any way a problem for freedom of religion, nor do we believe that this resolution should ban mosques in general. I don't think you can or should. But we believe that it provides a tool for banning Islamic prayer calls from among others. minarets and construction of large mosques in local areas. We must ensure that the Danish culture and values in the same way as the church occupy the highest point and maintain its special position in Danish society. Thank you for today's debate. I am, of course, really sorry that so many people will not support it. We could really expect it to be supported. This is true, for example. The Conservative People's Party, but the Conservative People's Party and the Left have found some commas and perhaps also some spelling mistakes and some practical details that make it just impossible to support it. Of course, we think it is a pity if it is the case that they actually think that Danish culture should be maintained in Denmark. But we are happy to come back with a more precise proposal for amending the law on plans. Then there are others who have said that the proposal calls into question freedom of religion. I have already said that it does not. This is not a reasonable objection to it, as well as the flag law does not affect freedom of religion, but one can only flag with a formbrog in Denmark unless one gets a special permit. The same is true of the law we have regarding church buildings, that you must not build higher than the church right next door or shadow for the church. Nor does it attack freedom of religion in Denmark. We already have these kinds of rules, and that is actually the thinking we want to spread to the law of plans, so that it will be easier for each city council to take a position on the Islamisation that is taking place around the local communities. But we'd be happy to take it up again. We are happy to take it up in the Business Committee so that all those who have found hair in the soup will find it harder to find hair in the soup. So thank you for the debate. We'll be back in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203722	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first from Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203728	Thank you. I think, when you listen to the rapporteur, as I have done in several contexts, that there is a tendency for the rapporteur to drift around with huge words. And if you listen to the rapporteur, you should think that Islam and Islamism have simply infected the entire public space and sneaked into all the corners of Danish society. Then I want to hear: what about the Folketing? Have we in the Folketing secured ourselves against Islamism?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203819	I'm not sure I fully understand the question. I do not believe that Islam has sneaked into all the corners of Danish society, thank God for that. However, I believe that there is a great risk of this, and I believe, for example, that allowing primary school teachers to wear an Islamic scarf is very, very wrong, because it is precisely an Islamic mission that is being carried out in primary school with young Danish children, which I think is glaringly wrong. So there are certainly some places where Islam has crept in where Islam should not be. So there are places where it really has already gone wrong. And it has gone wrong in that we have ghettos, which are characterised by Islamic rules, and we have, as the previous debate on social control has shown, a large number of people who today in Denmark are forced to live by Islamic rules. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203920	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217203922	This is a little difficult for me to understand, because last week, just after a consultation, when we discussed foreign donations, when the rapporteur once again flew around with big ideas that the left wing was totalitarian, and there it was directed at SF and the Enhedslisten, and then I questioned what the rapporteur meant, the rapporteur said directly to me that the rapporteur thought I was as dangerous as an Islamist. I sit in the Danish Parliament, the stronghold of democracy, and I am compared to an Islamist. I can only distance myself from this and therefore it is very, very difficult for me to take the rapporteur and the rapporteur's words seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204019	It is sad, of course, but I think that the rapporteur's position is just as dangerous as Islamism is ■ not that the rapporteur, hopefully, will commit terrorism, but by removing freedom in Danish society. That is why I warn against using the words'social control' instead of 'Islamic control' in the proposal we had just before. For the left, it tends to put all sorts of other things into these more neutral words, so that in reality it forbids the traditional Danish way of life, for example. That you raise your own children yourself. And it is just as anti-freedom as Islamism is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204100	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204104	If the rapporteur has said this about the SF's rapporteur, I think it is quite obscene. But that is a completely different question. I would like to continue this debate. It was, in effect, the Danish People's Party by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who himself suddenly included Rosenborg Castle as something we were going to discuss tonight. And then I thought, what does that have to do with this? Yeah, it was, if anyone could break it down. Yeah, that would be a scandal in my opinion, but who's talking about it? Surely it will not be arranged as a prayer house for Muslims, I am absolutely sure of that. It continues to be a museum and a great space. We also have a large beautiful place in Silkeborg, or apologize we had, but the Left and Dansk Folkeparti have scandalously smeared up concrete construction and destroyed beautiful Danish culture in the middle of Silkeborg city in the sacred name of making more money and getting economic growth. It was a scandal, I agree with that. It has nothing to do with Muslims or Islam, but it has something to do with the fact that sometimes you vandalize some cities by thinking only of money. That's why I think we need to find out what you want to discuss before we can discuss it. And it is no use that Morten Messerschmidt, with his academic arrogance, belittles others because you are not clear enough in your message (First Vice-President Thank you!), so you have to...
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204224	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'd like to disapprove of the use of direct charges. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204229	But I would have liked to have had the opportunity at the time when the centre of Silkeborg was destroyed to rely on parts of the law on plans to preserve historical buildings, which means that I think you already have. The problem is that there is no possibility of preserving Danish traditions in public spaces which are not physical. It is possible to maintain physical buildings, but these are institutions and, for example, institutions. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And that cannot be banned by the law of plans or regulated by the law of plans. So I actually think you could have defended Silkeborg's center at that time. And, of course, it's too bad you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204318	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204320	You couldn't, because it's a big open space around the harbour, which has never been built and which we think is a beautiful place where all people come. All of a sudden, seven-storey high houses are to be built. That's an example. There were no houses in advance, and now you can earn money from building them. But I just want to say that we have something. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that there is cultural heritage in the planning law. Cultural heritage, what is it? That's a lot of things, and it can be used for a lot of things. What more do you want? I'd like to know. If only Islam suffers, I think it is too narrow, and we cannot afford to do so. We should try to have some generalizing instead of excluding rules. We also have another concept called intangible cultural heritage, which is an exciting concept. That is, for example, the case. The border area in Denmark. It is intangible cultural heritage and it has just been recognised as such. And that cannot be described quite clearly, but you know what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204415	But it is, in fact, precisely intangible cultural heritage that we want to be defended here because we have got this answer that prayer calls cannot be regulated by the law of plans. Because there is only something that can be regulated with historic buildings. So that's actually exactly it. And we are not just saying Islamic prayer calls; we are just saying that if we have it incorporated into the law of plans, then these are places where the Danish cultural tradition is challenged.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204500	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204524	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204541	Thank you. I will start by saying that I am here today as a substitute for our transport rapporteur, Thomas Jensen, who is prevented. In the context of the modernisation of the Taxi Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, the residence requirement was continued as a requirement for an undertaking to have an ownership group resident in the EU or the EEA in order for it to be granted an authorisation for commercial passenger transport or an authorisation to operate a driving office. The purpose of the residence requirement was to make it possible to monitor whether an undertaking meets the requirements of good practice in the industry. In a supervisory case in December 2019, it was found that the residence requirement had, on the one hand, too far-reaching consequences when the company was operating in company form and, on the other hand, was not appropriate to achieve the objective of facilitating the supervision of the company's good repute. Among other things: Against this background, the specific undertaking which was the subject of the surveillance proceedings raised questions as to whether the residence requirement was in conformity with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on freedom of establishment and freedom of movement for capital. Following a closer examination of this question, among other things. The Attorney General was asked for advice, the Minister of Transport decided, in agreement with the agreement circle behind the Taxi Act, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party and the SF in December 2019 to suspend enforcement of the residence requirement in accordance with the principle of the primacy of EU law. Therefore, since December 2019 the residence requirement has not been enforced in connection with the processing of applications for authorisation for commercial passenger transport and authorisation to operate a driving office. This bill therefore aims to bring the law into line with the legal situation that has been in practice since December 2019 as regards the conditions for the residence of the owner of the company in the EU for the authorisation of commercial passenger transport or the authorisation to operate a driving office, as the residence requirement is now removed from the law. Subsequently, the Ministry of Transport and Housing has examined whether the residence requirement in the EU/EEA in respect of drivers and responsible managers of taxi companies and driving offices respectively can be said to have too far-reaching consequences in relation to the purpose and that, accordingly, the compatibility of these requirements with Union law can be questioned accordingly. This has proved to be the case and, for that reason, it is proposed that these requirements should also be deleted from the law. In addition, the bill contains a large number of technical changes to the taxi law, in view of the repeal of the EU/EEA residence requirement provisions. Social democracy can support the proposal, and I have also promised to welcome the radical rapporteur and to say that the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204820	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. It's noted. And I can see that the rapporteur of the Left is already ready and, in a moment, the platform will be fully ready for the reception of Mr Tugendhat. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204837	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your despriting. The Socialist rapporteur has already explained the content of the draft law in a thorough and excellent manner, so I will spare you that to repeat. Only we in the Left note that the residence requirement, as is now laid down in the taxi law, has proved to have far-reaching consequences for the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital and is therefore at odds with EU law. That is why we can support the draft law, which will put it right here and, in fact, bring the legislation into line with the practice that has been in force over the past year. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204923	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The rapporteur from the Danish People's Party is being prepared, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217204941	Despite the fact that the rapporteurs before me did not really spend much of their speaking time, I would nevertheless like to conclude that it is difficult for me to come up with much more to say about this matter in particular. Of course, we can put on the historical glasses and tell you a little about the background to it, and if this bill hadn't come true, what it does with this initiative, we would of course have had some challenges in relation to the situation in the Danish taxi market, in that there were big things at stake compared to the situation that arose back in 2019. However, the Danish People's Party can support the bill put forward by the Minister of Transport. We are fully in line with the fact that it makes sense to have these things organized so that ownership can also formally and effectively be in ownership circles located in EU and EEA countries, etc. So, on that basis, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205045	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205054	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it has not occurred to him that this is done on a mandatory basis and in accordance with EU rules, and since the Danish People's Party usually prides itself on being at least an EU critical party, I would have liked to know whether it had not been considered whether this was not a place to challenge EU law. I am also thinking of the situation that one thing is that the residence requirement should be waived in relation to the ownership circle, but it is also done in relation to the day-to-day manager and drivers, which means that taxi drivers can be employed as drivers resident in Thailand, at least in principle. Does this not give rise to any doubts at all in the Danish People's Party about simply saying that we should bow to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205149	It is true that when we have these cases where, for example, there are cuts in relation to EU legislation and everything else, then we have to look at whether these things are plausible, whether they work on the basis of a rational decision or not. And we do not have the same concern that I can, like myself, listen a little to that Enhedslisten may have, in relation to the specific situation picture that we have here. In fact, we do not believe that there will be a huge problem with Thai drivers in Denmark, etc. If it should happen that this is the situation that arises, then of course we would also like to be involved in looking at it, i.e. if it should become a reality. But that doesn't change the fact that when things are for the benefit of Danish interests, and when we consider that reason is involved, we don't mind that even a blind hen can find grain, I almost said. Here comes something from the European Union that is actually very sensible in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205246	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205247	Whether this is good for the taxi business or not, it will show up to a great extent. But that certainly gives the possibility, as I said, that taxi services can in principle be operated both as a daily manager, but certainly also as a driver, without there actually being a residence requirement, without being resident in Denmark or having an official address in Denmark. I simply cannot understand why the Danish People's Party does not have any doubts about this and that it is simply allowed to flourish. In fact, the new taxi law has already given rise to capital funds and is hiding in tax havens, and I shall give you that, but it goes on and says that this also applies to day-to-day managers and drivers, does not necessarily appear, in my opinion, from the EU judgment that has fallen in relation to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205344	No, maybe it doesn't. But I don't think we should start inventing some ghosts that may not exist, and that's what I'm, like, a little experiencing that Enhedslisten is moving into. As regards the ownership of these companies, it is therefore the case that when they operate in Denmark, they also operate on a Danish basis in relation to collective agreements and taxation and all sorts of other matters. As far as ownership of companies in Denmark is concerned, I do not think it makes sense to make specific demands exactly on companies dealing with taxi operations, which are not also addressed to other types of industries in Denmark. So if you were to defend what Enhedslisten is trying to defend, then perhaps I also think you could get busy in relation to other sectors where you could quite rightly ask the same questions, and if that is what you want, and if you want to criminalise people or suspect them before there are any problems, then I think you are doing badly. I think it makes more sense to have confidence in the first place. If it appears as I say, then to be in some places where things are going as Enhedslisten fears, then it is a new situation like all sorts of other places where we have operated with a change of legislation here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205458	So I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and since a message has already been passed on from the Radical Left, it has been time to welcome the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205514	The SF may also support the proposal. I had prepared a very long speech, but I feel that there is no mood for it. So I will confine myself to saying that we think it is very good that, especially in cases where the Ministry concludes that there will be no problems in supervising compliance with good practice in the industry, current EU legislation will be complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205552	Thank you. I am sorry, then, that the SF rapporteur will not make his long speech. I had just looked forward to having some grain of gold in it, for I actually lean to the view that the SF may in fact have regretted its participation in the taxi law at the time, or at least should reflect on what kind of liberalisation monster has been unleashed in the taxi industry. In other words, people driving a taxi, and I do so myself a great deal, especially here in the metropolitan area, want to know that it is simply a monster that has been unleashed and that profits go down, and it is not only because of corona; it was also on its way before, and it is simply no longer in control of the industry. I think it's bombed back to the time when it was a somewhat intrigued business. It's turning out to be again as a result of the taxi law. So I'd like to know if SF hasn't had any reflections on that since the taxi law was passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205701	We also have many reflections, especially in relation to the problem of getting taxis in the countryside where I live, and other problems in the industry which have been mentioned. I note, of course, that there has not been so much as one pep in the consultation response to this bill, and that is why I actually distinguish in this discussion between being critical of the legislation and wanting to improve it and at the same time also thinking that it makes sense to comply with EU law when you find that it has not been complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205739	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205740	I am well aware that over the years the SF has become extremely enthusiastic about the European Union, and that is why it is by no means anticipating EU law. We have the view in the Enhedslisten that it can be challenged occasionally. I simply do not understand why, on the basis of an EU judgment aimed at the Netherlands, which deals with an executive director in a shipping business, it is not strange or questionable that it should now be extended to the day-to-day manager and drivers. How will you control the industry? There is very little control in advance. How will you control the industry if there is no requirement that they actually stay in this country, except when they just drive a taxi?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205829	I think this is a very good question, but, as I said in my speech, the Ministry has indeed dealt with it here and found out that, firstly, the residence requirement has not seen in isolation any great significance for the observance of good practice, and secondly, it has been noted that the supervision of whether good practice is respected can work anyway, and that is what we are referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205857	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Robinson's report. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217205918	Thank you. Unlike the previous rapporteurs, I intend to make a long speech and make full use of the speaking time, virtually speaking. Because you can almost be tempted to say that the chaos with this bill about the taxi industry, the taxi law, continues. The new taxi law has, as you know, put a full blow on the liberalisation of the industry, and that was also the intention, by opening the way to corporate formation, to pave the way for the entry of capital funds into the industry, with the consequent possibility of placing in tax havens, which is already taking place, and to smash the profits of serious road hauliers and drivers, and not only because of the corona crisis, but also, to a large extent, before the Corona crisis came through, through the far too many permits that are now being issued, which have also led to working days of 16-18 hours, we are now hearing about. The business is thus also opened up to plattenslayers and lucky knights who are only in the industry for a short time, but of course they help to push the profits. It was then all something that Enhedslisten warned against at the time, and the reason why we could not agree to the agreement on the taxi law. But now, with this bill, one of the very few controls the authorities have with the industry, individual companies and individual road hauliers and drivers, namely the residence requirement, will be abolished. We think it is a reasonable requirement to conduct taxi business in Denmark, but of course it is contrary to the ravaged liberalism, and that is contrary to EU law, the Danish Trade Administration and the Ministry have certainly also found out. This is based on a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which opposed the Netherlands to a judgment which has fallen in the maritime sector in a profession, the shipping industry or the shipping industry, which is international in nature, contrary to the practice of the taxi industry, which is so much nationally anchored, indeed, almost down to the city level. However, the free movement of capital and the freedom of establishment on which the European Union judgment is based are, as you know, above everything else, and for the Enhedslisten, instead, it is a question of taking in the consequences of these so-called freedoms, which result in social dumping, gross exploitation and trafficking in human beings. The least that could have been done was then to try to challenge EU law here because we think what is happening is grotesque. But it seems to be far away from the conciliation parties. It is quite grotesque, as I have already mentioned in some of my questions, to abolish the residence requirement for the daily, responsible manager and even for drivers. To me, how to draw the consequence of an EU judgment aimed at an executive director of a shipping company or a shipping company is a mystery. And how will the Danish Trade Administration possibly be able to carry out the necessary checks on a taxi company if the manager is in some third country in Thailand, in the Philippines or for that matter in Sicily? And in relation to the drivers, have we not just been through a Padborg case where Filipino drivers on Polish work permits were offered quite monstrous pay and accommodation conditions by a Danish road haulage company? If there are no longer any residence requirements for drivers, that pattern may well be repeated for taxi services. With the extremely low level of control that the Danish Transport Authority seems to be leading with the taxi industry, and I am based on a series of answers to me on the basis of a series of questions I have asked, one can only fear for even more wild west conditions in the industry. How, for example, do you want to do this? enforce Article 10 of the taxi law on Danish salary levels when drivers are not even resident in the country? I can, of course, see in the comments that the Danish Trade Agency can turn to the tax authorities, but the experience from e.g. the collection of parking charges and fines from foreign hauliers does not exactly imply that it is the easiest thing in the world to provide for orderly conditions, including the payment of tax and wages • what should be paid when companies and their employees are abroad, even in third countries. The purpose of the residence requirement has been to ensure, as Section 3 and 5 states, that the company complies with the requirements of good practice in the industry, but when both owners, the day-to-day manager and even drivers are resident abroad, one has shown oneself on a very difficult task. The Enhedslisten foretold that the new taxi law would be a nightmare for the former hauliers and drivers, who would completely lose control of their businesses and could expect a reduction in income. We were right about that, but it has not, in parentheses, become cheaper to drive a taxi. Now one of the few control mechanisms provided for in the taxi law is being abolished. It will be a resounding 'no' from the Enhedslisten and a great surprise that the Social Democrats, the government, the SF and, for that matter, the DF also allow the liberalist morass that the taxi law has developed to continue, now even with more lack of control of bids from the EU. It was just spot on on on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210454	I can confirm this to the rapporteur. It was exactly fully utilized speaking time and respect for it. Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and welcome to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr Conservatives. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210507	Has he wiped off? No? First Vice-President No, the previous rapporteur forgot about the alcohol, and so it was the start of the rapporteur). Then I will see to it that the previous rapporteur is wiped out. I will, and I will not wipe off the microphone. Thank you very much for the floor, and thus for Mr. Henning Hyllested's long fire speech, I would like to say from here that I have promised the Minister that I will say something nice about him, so that it will be a very short speech today. No, we can one to back up on the proposal we see no reason to spend longer of people's night on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210543	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I would urge the rapporteur to spritze off before the next rapporteur. Thank you very much, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. I do not see the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party present in the Chamber, nor the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and so the Conservative rapporteur has made it quite clear that the Minister for Transport can take the floor. Niels Flemming Hansen The Conservatives have made a clean table! ) Yes, completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210613	Thus we got both word speaker making and standupcomedy at one and the same time. Thank you. Thank you for your support from the various parties. I have, of course, noted that the Enhedslisten has a different position. It's not so surprising, all the time that Enhedslisten is not part of the conciliation circle. The purpose of this draft law is quite clearly described, in other words to bring legislation into line with EU law, and so it is also a relatively technical legislative proposal, which, of course, if needed, we would like to be available to answer questions about in committee. I look forward to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210706	Thank you, Minister. I can see that it looks like it's Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, who has pressed in and would like to ask for the floor, but it must be because Mr. Henning Hyllested has chosen a wrong place. I hope, sir. Henning Hyllested spritses it off before he chooses the correct place. And the rapporteur who has asked for the floor for a brief comment is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210728	Thank you, and now I've moved to the right place. Yes, it is a very technical bill, yes, but with great consequences in reality for the control that can be carried out with the industry. That is also what I have been talking about in my rapporteur's speech. I just want to hear the Minister: one thing is that the residence requirement for the ownership circle is abolished, and that, of course, is the reason why we no longer have control over the capital funds that have kept them in place, yes, but that we also abolish it for the manager responsible and for the driver, I simply cannot get into my head, to put it bluntly, because of the European judgment that has fallen. And I have to ask how, in principle, the Danish Trade Administration intends to keep control of that profession if the manager of a company or, for that matter, the driver is abroad when they are not driving a taxi?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210829	After all, the very fact that the legislative proposal, and hence the practice, are in line with EU law, is relatively technical. The fact that there is also work to be done on how taxi legislation should be designed forward-looking, among other things. On the basis of the taxi evaluation that we have just completed and on which the conciliation parties were invited to discuss in January, there is something else. And, of course, there are a number of elements in it that you can take up there. However, it can be said that here we are bringing the legislation into line with what is the administrative practice that is based on the acquis communautaire.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210923	Sir. Henning Hyllested for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217210924	Yes, but it is an assessment that the Danish Trade Administration and the Ministry, as I understand it, have made, namely that this is not just about the ownership circle, it is also about drivers and the daily manager. And that is what I cannot get into my head, to put it plainly, because I believe that this is the way to abandon control mechanisms which are already scarce in the taxi law, that is to say to abandon a control mechanism and easier access to supervision. I do not know how the Minister imagines it: if something is wrong, you have to pick up the phone and call Thailand or the Philippines, because there is the Chief Executive. Maybe he doesn't even know Danish, who knows? I know there are some demands in the taxi law, but still. It is really going to be a hell of a thing to have that supervision carried out and that control carried out, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211015-2	It's very funny that sir. Henning Hyllested mentions this because precisely language requirements are one of the elements that should be emphasised in the evaluation of the taxi law, because there is probably a rather too lenient approach to the exact language requirement. So there is at least one element that we expect to discuss with the parties that are part of the circle of agreements, the circle of conciliation, in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211047	So thank you to the Minister for Transport No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211104	The debate is open. I should first like to welcome the Minister of Taxation, who is acting Minister of Finance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211134	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss this important issue. New citizens have tabled a motion for a resolution which will oblige the government to put forward legislative proposals to organise an indicative referendum on Denmark's accession to the EU recovery plan. As part of the negotiations on the EU's multiannual financial framework, what is known as MFF is also being introduced in popular terms, a new recovery plan is being introduced to support the recovery of European economies. The total amount of the recovery plan is 750 billion. EUR distributed in the form of either direct grants or loans. Direct grants amount to 390 billion. EUR, and the remaining EUR 360 billion. The euro will be used as a loan to the Member States. A smaller proportion, approx. 80 billion. Euro, is channelled into a number of EU spending programmes such as research and rural support via the EU budget, while the majority, i.e. approx. 670 billion The euro will be implemented through the so-called recovery facility, which will be distributed either as direct grants or on-lending. It is no secret that the government in the negotiations was and for that matter still is extremely sceptical about direct subsidies. That is why we worked hard in the negotiations to ensure that the funds could be made available as loans on favourable terms. We did so because we believe that it is a healthy principle to repay your own debt. That is why we have always been sceptical about transfers between countries financed by common debt. At the same time, however, this is a situation in which, among 27 countries, we had to obtain unanimity. In other words, it was very difficult negotiations, how many interests were at stake, of course. For the government it was essential to ensure that the recovery plan became as responsible as possible. Given the very different positions of the countries, we therefore worked hard to reduce the proportion of direct grants. But, of course, it was also for the government that the recovery instrument should contribute to digitisation and the green transition. The green elements of the recovery plan must therefore be implemented so that they support the European Green Pact • also what is called green deal in EU contexts. And then, of course, it was a question of ensuring that this is a one-off case, a crisis aid which does not fall into the general budget and which has a clear expiry date appropriate to the temporary crisis. The government's efforts in the negotiations must be said to have borne fruit. We had reduced the share of direct grants from 500 billion. EUR 390 billion proposed by the Commission. EUR 110 billion. euro. In addition, the funds from the EU recovery plan, together with the MFF, are included in the requirement that at least 30% of the funds be spent. must go to climate initiatives. This is important in order to support a green transition, which must therefore also help restore growth. It is also important for the government that recovery funds are used sensibly. That is why, of course, we are also pleased that all countries need to draw up a recovery plan in order to have access to the funds in the EU recovery facility. The plans of the countries must be approved by the Council on the basis of an assessment by the European Commission. A number of criteria must be met in order to make funds available to the Member States. Firstly, the recovery plans must address the country-specific recommendations of the European Semester; secondly, the recovery plans must address the covid-19 pandemic through strengthened growth potential, job creation and economic and social resilience; thirdly, at least 37 per cent. the funds are earmarked for the green conversion; and finally, at least 20% of the funds are earmarked for the green conversion; and fourthly, at least 20% of the funds are earmarked for the green conversion. the funds are earmarked for digitisation. These measures ensure that the recovery plan contributes to economic recovery in Europe in both the short and the long term. I also understand that the proposers are concerned that the EU recovery plan will increase the pressure and need for EU taxes. On this issue, the government's position is quite clear: we do not want to give the EU the powers to issue taxes. It belongs in the Member States. That is why, in the negotiating table for the MFF, we also attached the utmost importance to the fact that new sources of income are collected in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and are therefore not based on direct collections from citizens or companies from the European Union. In addition, let me make it quite clear that the sources of income included in the MFF agreement are not EU taxes. As far as the new space contribution is concerned, it is basically a redistribution of EU contributions that underpins the green transition. The compromise with the European Parliament sets out a timetable for the presentation by the Commission of proposals for new own resources. When there is a proposal for new sources of revenue, it still needs to be dealt with on an equal footing with other EU proposals. This implies, by its very nature, the involvement of the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. It remains the case that the introduction of new revenue into the EU budget requires unanimity among the Member States. The agreement therefore does not bind the Member States to vote in favour of concrete proposals. Let me say once again that it remains essential for the government to retain the exclusive right of Member States to collect taxes on the part of citizens and businesses. In other words, the government has delivered an agreement which is fully in line with the mandate which a majority of Parliament's parties supported at the time. It is an agreement which is solidarity and which supports the necessary steps to help restore the European economies. It is also an agreement that is of enormous importance for the internal market and therefore also for Denmark's main export market. The EU recovery plan is at the heart of Europe's recovery from the corona crisis. Up to 600,000 Danish jobs depend on exports to the EU, and the economic situation throughout the EU is therefore of enormous importance for Denmark, Danish companies and Danish employees. It is therefore also in Denmark's clear interest that the economic consequences of the corona crisis will be as few and as short as possible. At the same time, let me stress that we in Denmark do not have a tradition of issuing indicative referendums, and I do not see why this matter should break with this. Against this background, of course, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211924	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it's sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211930	Thank you. Social democracy started the year by being part of the so-called savings gang in the EU together with Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden. Can the Minister explain why the government suddenly thinks it is quite okay to take money from the Danish welfare community and spend it on correcting the poor economy of southern European countries? Isn't that a clear breach of promise to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217211952	It's not. The mandate given to the government has been fully implemented, in the sense that the political priorities are clear, that there have also been changes and limitations in the circumstances which were part of the discussions we had when I was last a substitute for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212022	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212025	Can the Minister guarantee that the EU countries receiving funds from the fund will then carry out sustainable and lasting reforms of their economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212034	That is what the criteria are and, of course, it will be assessed in the right places. Denmark has fought for it, and we believe, as I said, that this plan helps not only to bring the European Union back on track, but also to make EU cooperation itself contribute to the growth of Europe, which is more green and more digitised and therefore more forward-looking than if we had not done what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212107	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212110	First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on indicative referenda, in which I would like to draw the attention of the acting Finance Minister to the fact that the 1986 vote was after Paragraph 19 and it is still being discussed whether the 1993 vote was according to Paragraph 20 or Paragraph 19, the time there was more than five sixths majority. So it is not true that we do not have a tradition of indicative referendums. What is the matter, however, and what is the question of the otherwise excellent speech, is its relevance at all. For that is the first speech to be made by the acting Finance Minister when, in fact, there is no reason to defend anything that has been agreed on a policy for which the government has obtained its majority. It would have been good if the acting Finance Minister had spent a little more time explaining why the Danes should not have an opinion on this, so why the Danes should not be asked about this. That's what this is all about. The European Union is taking a huge step towards a federation with this: joint liability, new aid packages, 750 billion. EUR etc. The acting Finance Minister thinks it's fantastic. He's allowed to do that. What he has to defend and explain is why the Danes must not be asked. We want a referendum, and that is what the acting Finance Minister must defend and explain why he does not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212220	I have replied to that, and I believe that there is a straight line here from the very broad signal that you can say powerful signal that was, for example, in the last parliamentary elections, that the development that was supposed to take place in Denmark after the elections was a development in which not least the green transition had to be weighted much more and weigh much heavier than before. The government has addressed this here, most recently with the large and broad agreement on green tax reform; we have stopped oil extraction by 2050 in the North Sea; we have an ambitious green transformation of our transport sector. This is also something we are fighting for in the European arena, and we are doing so here and with the mandate that we have received and with the activities that we otherwise carry out where these things are being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212316	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212317	After all, the Minister is completely out of the question again. So, what we would like an answer to is why the Minister does not think the Danes should be asked about this, which is surely one of the biggest EU decisions taken in recent times, at least since the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. And then he starts talking about wind turbines in the North Sea and car conversions in Denmark. That is not what we are talking about here, Minister. So what we are talking about here is that the government does not want the Danes to be heard. And frankly, I think that deserves a little more and a little more winged words for you to have just a little bit of respect for that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212350	The government has very great respect for the decision of the people. That is why we have addressed the very clear signal that was sent in the parliamentary elections. It was a clear signal not only of a political change in the country, but it was also a clear signal of a change of direction in favour of and towards a much more greener transformation of Danish society, still away with the focus on cohesion, the development of our welfare society and a development where we can ensure that there is also progress in relation to jobs in the direction of Denmark. That is what we have fought for here in this thing where we stand now, and that is what we are fighting for in Europe, and we think in all modesty that we have succeeded very well in the efforts we have made in the negotiations on this plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212439	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. So thank you to the Minister, and that opens the way for the rapporteur. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Henrik Møller. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212452	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this recovery fund, which the EU Member States agreed on back this summer, is very good news from the Socialist side, both for Europe, but also for Denmark as well. When this was launched, Europe was hard hit by the covid-19, but it has to be said that we are, as it were, now that the second wave is actually raging all over the continent. We believe that there is both sense and solidarity in the recovery fund that has been set up. We are supposed to be helping these European economies on their feet, and this is really important for us here in Denmark, because over half of Danish exports go to the EU, which means that there are a lot of jobs at stake here. I also think it is important to stress that back in June a mandate was actually created by a majority of the Folketing for an MFF agreement and a recovery fund, so it can be said that what we are establishing is in line with a majority of the Folketing that has supported the government in this. I know, and it is also well known, of course, that in the negotiations on this recovery fund we have worked hard to make these funds available as a loan rather than a grant. It has to be said that from where we started and to where we landed, we actually think that a compromise has succeeded very well in reducing a large part of the direct subsidies that were put up and converting them into loans instead. We're kind of happy about that. We have also helped to ensure that the new sources of revenue from the MFF and the recovery fund do not exceed the Treaty base and, in this way, do not involve EU taxes, because we are, in this way, still taking part in the fact that what is called the tax area or the tax recovery is still a national matter, and that must, of course, continue to be so. I also think that somewhere else we have made it clear that exceptional times also require exceptional funds, but it is also proposed that this recovery fund should be a one-off affair. Because we certainly cannot agree with the fact that there are permanent measures involving joint EU loans for transfers between EU countries, and therefore it is important to emphasise that the recovery fund is a temporary solution to a temporary crisis. I would also like to say that it has been important for us that the recovery funds are used wisely, and that is also why this agreement here means that all countries must draw up recovery plans in order to benefit from these funds, which must be approved by the Council and, moreover, lay down a number of criteria, as the Minister also mentioned. Here, emphasis has been placed on both economic and social resilience, but also on the green transition and on the digitisation of our society. We are, in fact, very pleased with this. So we in the Social Democratic Party think that, overall, we have achieved a good result. We have achieved a good agreement, which has the backing of the Folketing, and that is why we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are requests for a few brief remarks, first from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212834	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur mentions that we are in a very special situation, and we are clearly doing so. I have then used this as a reason for making this package. But we have to anticipate that there will be a crisis again at a later stage. Will the Social Democrats then not be included in a corresponding package if it is proposed by the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212901-2	No, I think in the first place we'll stick to the package that's been made here. But it is clear that we cannot predict what the future will mean. What can be said is important for social democracy is that we ensure that Europe does not collapse, but that, where we export half of our goods, it will also become a market in the future. However, there are no plans for us to take further action at a later stage. Let what we've set in motion here work and get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212936	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212937	So the rapporteur does not think that the public should be consulted on this issue. So I would like to ask: in the opinion of the rapporteur, what commitment should be made to the Danes before the Danes are consulted in a referendum? Is it only according to the limits of the Constitution on sovereignty, or are there other cases in which the Danes should be heard in a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217212956	I think that this is within the mandate given to a government by a majority of the Folketing, where, moreover, the EU's budgets are normally made. This is not something we put to a referendum when they are there every seven years. Here there is a separate situation with a particular challenge, not just in Denmark, but in the rest of Europe and in the rest of the world. We will solve this, but I do not see why a referendum should be held in this case. Then we have to do it by saying that we are at the goal of this in the next parliamentary elections, if we think that what we have done is wrong. I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213035	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213038	I don't know if it was an attempt to be funny when Mr. Simpson... Henrik Møller said this was a one-time thing. Well, that's the longest show I've ever seen. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Henrik Møller is aware that it is an agreement that extends 30 years in the future. That is why it is a little pauvert to come and say that then you can just overthrow the government when there is a parliamentary election. Well, thank you, but it's still gonna tie it away 30 years in the future. So now is the time for us to have the opportunity to say no. I have noticed several times that both the Minister and Mr. Henrik Møller has stressed that you have a parliamentary mandate behind you. - Sir... Henrik Møller remembers how wide that mandate was? How many members of parliament supported the government in the agreement that has been reached here for a 30-year period?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213116-2	The starting point here is that if you have more than 90 seats, you have a majority. One can then discuss the size of the • whether it should be larger or smaller. Here there is a majority behind the government in relation to the mandate for negotiation given, both to the MFF, but also to the recovery agreement that is here. It is true that it runs longer, just as the budget does. But I believe that we must then be held accountable when the next parliamentary elections are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213144	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213146	We certainly intend to do so. But what is at stake here is that we have heard the Social Democrats repeatedly accuse ourselves of bourgeoisism when there was a bourgeois majority, in order to use a quite narrowly bourgeois majority on precisely what Mr. Henrik Møller says 90 seats. So this is a government which debts the Danes jointly with 26 other countries, some of them a little doubtful on the edge, so it has to be said, in relation to economic stability, during a 30-year period with the narrowest possible majority of the people behind it. And when we are some people who say that we really should ask the Danes that, then there comes a song from the hot countries about how amazing it is that there is now the green transition. Why would Mr. Henrik Møller and the tax minister with the narrowest possible parliamentary majority behind his actions do not ask the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213231	I think I have explained this, both in my speech and in general. I do not think this is a matter for a referendum. It is within the framework of what a government and a parliament can decide, and we have done so by a majority here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213248	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213251	Thank you. I just want to hear how many times the Socialist rapporteur thinks you can go out and make a loan of this size that goes from 2028 to 2058? Is that something you can do every year? Is that something you can do every seven years? Is that something you can do every two years? Is that something you can do very, very rarely? What is the Socialist rapporteur's assessment of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213329	I therefore believe, as I said at the outset, that we are in a special situation which requires special solutions. That is what we have been doing in connection with this recovery plan. I find it hard to imagine that this is something that is going to repeat itself several times. So the starting point is that this is a special solution to a particular problem. One thing can be said is that the European Union is challenged, but Denmark is also in danger of being challenged in the long term if we do not manage this epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213401	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213402	When I ask, of course, it is because the biggest challenge we face at all if we go some years ahead because it is clear what is the biggest right now is the climate change, which it will take a gigantic investment to achieve. Well, we have seen that the European Union is weak pissers and is down about 55%, haven't we? There is what I am thinking: does the Social Democrats feel that they are hand in hand with the fact that all the many, many billions of dollars that have been borrowed are actually going to promote the green transition so that we do not have to borrow money again in a few years' time to achieve the goal by 2030 and by 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213448	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. I would just like to say a word about language. Looks like sir. Søren Søndergaard simply cannot himself remember that an expression was used which in no way belongs in the Assembly Hall. I will explain that to Søren Søndergaard on another occasion. Then it is the rapporteur's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213507	I would say that, in addition to language, I think it is actually a really comprehensive question because it contains more elements than just this agreement, which is here, where, of course, emphasis has been placed on both digitalisation and the green part, what I think is sensible when you invest as many billions of dollars in the form of loans and grants as you do here. However, it is clear that we have a climate agenda alongside which, in some way, both in relation to Denmark and to Europe and the rest of the world, must also be resolved. And I do not think that we are through discussing how we can meet those challenges. I am not quite as negative in relation to the 55% that has been agreed, and it is not, of course, because I do not think it should have been higher, but I think it is good that some of the countries that have so much challenges here are actually being made relatively large climate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213556	Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, coming to a cleaned pulpit. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217213616	Thank you for that and thank you to the new citizens for the resolution. This led me to take a trip back to memory lane to the vote on the EEC package in 1986, when a young VU, namely the one standing on the platform right now, hung in various lampposts with japlats. It was February, and it was so cold that your hands risked freezing on the lamppost. After all, it was a vote which was written out because the government then had a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly against it on the question of whether Denmark should accede to the EC package, which was the basis of the whole internal market, and which we all, or almost all of us today, think is a very excellent idea. But then there was a slanderous majority in the Danish Parliament who thought that we should not, and then Prime Minister Poul Schlüter printed an indicative referendum, which was won quite significantly by 56.2%. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations has been approved by the Council. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It was therefore a situation in which a very large minority in the Folketing, including the government, could not get through with its policy, and then they decided to ask the Danish population. That is not what we are dealing with today. Today we are faced with a major decision, admittedly, resulting from a situation that we have not faced before: a global pandemic, which risks destroying quite a lot for Europe's economies, and which therefore requires exceptional measures. Then I have calculated that 33 seats in the Folketing think this is such a bad idea that we should have a referendum on the issue, and therefore there are 146 seats that do not think we should have a referendum. As has been said earlier and as has also been said by the Minister, there is no tradition in Denmark that we ask the people about all sorts of things. We ask the people every four years, at least when we have elections to the Folketing, and then we have representative democracy, where we have been elected in here, to measure the decisions we make. I can only note that, in elections after elections, most recently in the parliamentary elections and the European Parliament elections, the EU-positive parties will have around 70-80 per cent. of the votes, and the EU-negative parties get these 20-30 per cent. of the votes. I am not saying that to gloat; I am just saying this to explain that this great popular wish, which is said to exist, to have a referendum, I allow myself to doubt the existence of. Personally, I would like to see it be very exciting to live in Switzerland or the United States, where there is a much greater tradition of referendums on this and that, but we do not have that in Denmark. I am tempted to say that the proposal is out of the question, but I will not. So the Left does not support the desire for a referendum. If we were to vote on this issue, there were a great many other things that we also had to put to a consultative referendum, and that would be a completely new tradition in Danish parliamentarianism, which we do not see any need to introduce. So I must disappoint New Citizens that the Left cannot support the resolution to hold an indicative referendum, and frankly we also believe that the Danes have other things right now that they care about, than an indicative referendum on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214017	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's for mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214022	It is true that there is a large majority in the Folketing, which is very pro-EU, but we have had some referendums where we have actually seen the people vote differently, in other words vote against what there has been a majority in favour. So I do not think that in itself is an argument for it not to be of interest to the people. However, I would like to ask something: if the Left was not in the negotiating mandate that led to the recovery package because they could not get a guarantee that the cost of a larger EU budget could be found in the economic space, does the Left consider that recovery packages and redistribution should be part of the European Union, and does the Left believe that the problems of southern Europe can be addressed with such packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214105	It is true that the Left did not give a mandate to the government because we could not get a guarantee that the increased expenditure that comes from the recovery package would not lead to a tax increase; it is quite true that they would not lead to a tax increase. It is actually surprising that we could not get that guarantee from the government. It would not have been very difficult to give it, since the increase was already included in the Ministry of Finance's calculations and, as such, there is no need for a tax increase as a result of the recovery package and the new MFF. On the contrary, we could really reduce the tax because the costs of the next, and now I say MFF, but the next multiannual budget in the European Union, that is. Seven-year budget, in other words, is lower than what had been calculated by the Ministry of Finance. So this isn't gonna lead to a tax increase. It should also be remembered that the recovery package Denmark can also seek money from, and we get money from it. So things are being set up fairly squarely, I have to say, but that is to say, now the debate is about whether we should have a referendum or not, and not whether the recovery package is a good idea or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214214	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214215	It is true that we are receiving some money in connection with the recovery package, but it is quite a small amount in relation to what we are going to pay, even if payments have been put out in the future, so it is the next generation that will pay for it. But it is clear from the Left's programme of principles that the EU must be strong, but slim, and therefore the EU must not be able to levy taxes. The text of the agreement with the Recovery Fund states that in the coming years the European Union will work towards reforming the own resources system and introducing new own resources, and it does not require much imagination to imagine that one day the European Union will dream of printing direct taxes, despite the fact that the Treaty prevents them. Will the Left help prevent the EU from being allowed to levy direct taxes in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214302	The short answer is yes. In other words, the European Union does not have the power to issue taxes. We do not think the European Union should have that either. Well, we have the municipalities that issue taxes, and the state that issues taxes, and we think that's all enough. After all, the own resources that the European Union has, as the acting Finance Minister also said, are a way of distributing expenditure from the Member States, i.e. countries which, for example, are able to recycle plastics, are getting cheaper in quotas than countries that are not so good at. So this is not a tax or a tax on Danish citizens or the company, because this is against the Left; there we are completely in line with New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214345	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214348	Thank you to the rapporteur for actually giving a speech on what the proposal is about, namely to wind up an indicative referendum on the recovery package. I understand that the rapporteur's main argument against the Danes being asked about this is that we can clarify this in the parliamentary elections: if the Danes are so dissatisfied with this decision, then the Danes can choose a new government and that is right, and we are hoping the Danes will do so. What I'd like to ask, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, on the other hand, is: Once this new government has arrived, will it have the legal opportunity to step out of the recovery mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214429-2	Well, I understand the point of the question, and it is quite correct that decisions are being taken there in the European Union, so there is also in the Danish Parliament which will last many years in the future. If you decide to build a Great Belt Bridge, you cannot imagine that a Parliament, which would then suddenly turn out to be against the Great Belt Bridge, will begin to tear it down. Well, that's the way it is. Decisions will be taken and also large-scale economic decisions that will last years in the future. That's the way it is. That is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214459	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214459-2	Will Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen then maintain his argument? Because just before we heard that the Danes should not be asked today, so that we can put a stop to this before it gets started, because we can take it in two years' time. But now Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen saw that if we change our mind, that is, if the Danes think otherwise in two years' time, you can't stop it anyway. That doesn't seem very logical. So if we cannot stop it in two years' time, it would not be more sensible for the Left to vote in favour of the Danes being asked now and then Mr. Jørgensen go out and use all his good arguments to get a majority of Danes to vote yes? But it probably makes the most sense to be able to block something as long as it is legally possible to block it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214540-2	Well, that is a good point, but now you are at the forefront of a desire for a referendum if you want it to be a yes in that referendum, that is, there is something you want it to be. We have no desire for the recovery package to fall, even though we would have liked to see a larger share given as loans and not as direct subsidies, but we do not have a burning desire to prevent it. And that is why they would be a little strange if we were to take the lead together with the Danish People's Party, the New Citizens' Party and the Enhedslisten with the desire for a referendum in the same way as the Danish People's Party did not support the request for a referendum on the reservation of rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214622	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217214649	Thank you, President. The former rapporteur mentions in his report the legal reservation vote, and that is quite a good place to start the story of the debate we have here this evening. For what exactly was the legal reserve vote pictured? Yes, it was a case in which an overwhelming majority in the Danish Parliament wanted to give the EU more powers, wanted to let the EU decide more, but where it turned out that the people wanted something else. I do not know anyone who is actively arguing today that it was a bad idea for the Danes to be heard. In fact, contrary to all expectations, the special agreement that we all hoped for, and indeed the disasters which the parties that wanted to abolish Danish sovereignty had announced for both paedophiles and terrorists etc., have so far not been realized. So referendums are basically a very good instrument for ensuring that when it comes to large, far-reaching decisions with far-reaching consequences for the Danes and for Denmark, the decisions have a basic sound in the Danish population. I cannot imagine any decision in the near future or in the near past which is as far-reaching as what we are dealing with here. There is, in part, the recovery facility, as it says, where debt is now taken up jointly for the first time among the 27 countries. It goes without saying that it is the first step towards a common financial law that we can begin to meddle in this way in whether the other countries then conduct a decent fiscal policy and such things and meet the requirements of how to manage the economy. This is also the first time that we have seen such a direct response to the Commission's proposal to be able to levy taxes themselves. A plastic tax, or a plastic tax, is expected to come into force soon, even on the thinliest possible democratic basis on which one can work at all here in the Folketing, namely 90 mandates, knitted together by another patchwork blanket, where one should have the Conservatives convinced, because Enhedslisten did not appear to be there, and the Left, which normally votes in favour of anything in Brussels, or at least Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen didn't want to be there either, and then you had to make a weird rug like that. Not even in that strange democratic constellation, not even in the completely new creation of joint liability and debt, etc. And not even in an instrument that is going to be 30 years ahead, it seems important enough to ask the Danes. Are you really so scared that you don't have the arguments right? Are you so afraid that in the particular situation of the Danes, you will be sent home with unfinished business, just as you did with the legal reservation? I think you are, and then you cover yourself, and then you pop up, with bad arguments that we can just take that in the parliamentary elections, even though you know very well that by then the EU train will be running. It is a poor craftsmanship, and it is democratically indecent, and this is linked to the fact that the same mandate allowed the Danes to increase their contribution to the EU budget by 4.5 billion. kr. In short, the Prime Minister had said that 5 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Prime Minister for extending the political vocabulary. But completely gakgak was the expression used by the Prime Minister when the Commission proposed 5 billion. kr. more, but when you came home with a new and improved budget, which only increased the Danish contribution by 4.5 billion. kr., it was absolutely fantastic. That we could have had 7,000 more nurses and that we could have had 10,000 more educators faded completely in the euphoria, and haven't the Danes forgotten all about it next time there's a parliamentary election? After all, we can hear that the large, broad EU-enthusiastic majority has now reunited in Parliament. The Left will not ask the Danes they did not vote for; it was something about the tax not being paid. But all that with the European Union is still more important than what happened a few months ago, so no, away with the ideas of a referendum. Having the narrowest possible parliamentary majority for the matter was a little fun this summer to be able to tease the government, but no, it is not enough to give the Danes the opportunity to say stop. And that's really a shame. I believe that if the Danes had had the opportunity to say stop something more frequently during the history of Denmark in recent decades, this country would have been in a better constitution on immigration policy, on EU policy and on a number of other areas. I find it sad, and I would almost say shameful, that people are being prevented from being asked. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215154	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215200	Well, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the fine description of this situation and thank you for supporting the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215211	Well, thank you. I am pleased that we can work together here. Now I do not know whether the Enhedslisten will vote in favour and whether we will end up with 33 seats, or whether it will be 20 seats, but I really do hope that the debate will not end with this, but that we can create a broad public debate on the European Union. I do not think it will be forgotten for the next 30 years who in this Chamber misprinted the day when it was possible to give the Danes the opportunity to block this evil.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215238	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party and thus welcome the SF rapporteur, Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, to the newly-cleaned platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215305	Thank you for that and thank you to the new citizens for tabling this resolution. With the resolution, new citizens want an indicative referendum to be held on Denmark's accession to the EU recovery package. The World Health Organization stated on 11 March this year that we are in the midst of a covid-19 pandemic, that is, an exceptional health crisis. The pandemic puts deep marks in the European economy, many Europeans have already lost their jobs, including here in Denmark, and the economy of many European countries is badly affected. After all, economic activity has been seriously disrupted. We see disrupted supply chains, the closure of production and major consequences for employment and social conditions, with poverty and inequality resulting from it. After all, the economies of the EU countries are closely linked, and that is one of them. What makes us one of the wealthiest regions in the world has created peace and unity across our diversity. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has plunged the EU into an economic crisis. It is now a cliché, but apparently there are still some who have not realised the point. If the Italian economy collapses, the Germans cannot sell their goods, and if the German economy goes into slow motion, we cannot sell our goods to the Germans. It will cost a lot of Danish jobs, and it is quite simple in my view. The proposers believe that the Recovery Fund is a step on the road to direct EU taxes. I think that the Minister explained this very well, and I also think that the rapporteur from the Left has explained it very well: the European Union does not have the competence to collect direct taxes, and for this reason too we in the SF do not see the need for an indicative referendum on the recovery fund. Right now we have the opportunity to reach out to some countries and help those who are the hardest hit by the covid-19, while at the same time helping our own economy. It is called not only solidarity but also responsible economic policy at home. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215544	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215549	Thank you. Despite the lack of support in the wording of the Treaties, the European Union has announced that it will interfere in setting the minimum wage in the European Union. In this context, Danish Metal threatens a referendum on EU membership if the minimum wage is paid. Will the SF participate in such a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215607-2	For the time being, we in the Committee on European Affairs have decided to draw the yellow card. Secondly, we must see whether we can bring together more countries that will do the same on the issue of minimum wage, because there should be no doubt that the SF is opposed to an EU minimum wage. The European Union should not interfere in how we set wages in Denmark. However, I think it is a little early to consider whether a referendum will be held if the proposal goes through as it is. I think we should start by seeing if we can gather enough countries that will draw the yellow card, and if we do not succeed, then we will have to deal with it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215653	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215654	Yes, it was also more to try if there are areas where SF could be interested in a referendum. So I would like to ask whether there is a limit to how much the European Union can demand the Danes to undertake without being asked in a referendum. The recovery plan provides a liability of 5,600 billion. kr., and a significantly increased contribution from the EU is not enough. If that is not enough, I would like to ask whether there is a limit to how many billions the EU can demand before the SF will be in favour of a referendum on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215726-2	There's always a limit to what you want to do. But the limit does not go here because the fact that we have this recovery fund means a great deal to Danish jobs, and because New Citizens' assumption that this is a slippery path on the road to direct taxes is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215748	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215751	I would like to ask whether Mrs Valentina Berthelsen can recall examples from recent years that members of the Socialist People's Party have accused a very narrow bourgeois majority of politics in Denmark, i.e. that perhaps even 90 civil mandates until the last parliamentary elections took some decisions with which the Socialist People's Party disagreed, and where it was used that only the narrowest possible majority in the Folketing was behind it, as an independent argument for why it was obscene.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215828-2	After all, I was not elected in the last parliamentary term. I am sure there are examples, but I do not really understand why the rapporteur is throwing himself into the rather hypothetical debate in this scenario, because that is far from the scenario we are in on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215846	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215847	Yeah, that's exactly the scenario, or it's actually an even worse scenario we're in here. Because what we are dealing with is that there are 90 mandates for the policy pursued by the government, but it has not even been dealt with in this Chamber. In other words, it is something that has been applauded in the Committee on European Affairs in a small cozy committee meeting. Normally, we say that legislation, for example. must be dealt with three times in the Assembly Hall and twice in a committee in order to become law, and then it goes right down to Amalienborg, where Her Majesty the Queen can then also countersign and such things. But here we are dealing with the narrowest possible majority, which has agreed that the government can commit the Danes for 30 years to a joint debt liability of 750 billion. kr. There it is just that, in view of the many times that the SF has accused the bourgeois majority of using its majority, however narrow it may be, it seems a little hypocritical that it is not even here willing to ask the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217215940-2	Well, that wasn't many minutes ago, sir. Morten Messerschmidt said that what we are talking about here is whether we should have a referendum, and on that issue there are far more than 90 mandates, which I count it I do not know whether Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has spoken after "who doesn't really think that's the way forward, even the Left." With that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself said that we have to deal with what the proposal is about, namely whether we should have a referendum, so I really do not think that it is relevant in other political matters how many mandates there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220016	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220020	Thank you. "Solidarity" said the SF's rapporteur, and to understand that, I would like to hear what that word of solidarity covers. Was it when the troika, the European Central Bank and the Commission and the IMF gave a large loan to Greece and demanded in return that agreements be terminated, that ports be sold, that pensioners be brought into poverty, an expression of something that the SF understands as solidarity?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220059	Again, it is a rather hypothetical question, in relation to what we are actually discussing here, because I see nowhere that we are required to terminate our agreements. On the other hand, I see a recovery package which will mean something for Danish jobs, for the European economy and which, although it might be more ambitious, will help to make green conversion at European level. So in isolation in this case, I think that this is solidarity, and I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220133	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220134	In other words, what the SF rapporteur is saying here is that in order to vote in favour of this recovery package, we have made sure that we do not come back into a situation where the Commission imposes cuts on various countries, dictates their contractual relations, requires them to cut down on pensioners, etc. etc. This has simply been ensured to vote in favour of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220202	What I am saying is that the content of this agreement is that we secure Danish jobs, and by the way, there will also be money for our Finance Act 2021, which Enhedslisten has so far been quite willing to use. This is a proposal which will ensure the European economy and the Danish economy for a very long time to come, and that is why we are of course voting in favour of it. I hope that there will be no demand for us to terminate Danish agreements. If that is the case, I think the Minister will also be quite critical of it, but so far I do not see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220237	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten. It's sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220248	Thank you. There are four reasons why Enhedslisten supports this proposal for a referendum. First of all, and this has been mentioned by several people, it imposes obligations on Denmark for generations to come. It is true that there are other things that do too, but after all it is not every day that we make decisions in here that bind the economy so much up to 2058. Secondly, there is no doubt that the fact that all countries in the European Union are subject to this payment increases the pressure for own resources to be established in the European Union at a very different level than we know today. Homemell will be found. There, of course, we have seen creative things time and again, and with the interpretation given in the Ministry of Justice in relation to the surrender of sovereignty, I have no doubt that it is possible to get quite a long way along the way without requiring a referendum in Denmark. But we want to see massive pressure, because countries that are economically disadvantaged have to draw the payments from their annual budgets, and it is clear that then the idea of own resources for the European Union will come. This is something that we are opposed to, and we can explain why we are. Thirdly, we are in favour of a referendum because we are against the recovery package. We are not against it in general. We actually presented our own recovery package. So the idea of borrowing money together to help the poorest countries seems to us to be very good, but there were three crucial problems in this recovery package. One was that to some extent it would benefit the wrong countries, which were not affected by corona, even though that was the starting point. The second is that the content is not green enough. And then you can say that it's typically Enhedslisten not green enough. Yes, but we have a 70-percent target, and there are limits to how many times we can go out and borrow so many hundred billion dollars. There are limits to how many times we can do this to get the green transition in place. Therefore, this opportunity should have been used to ensure the green transition. You don't. The third is, and this is for the SF's rapporteur, that there are no guarantees that this will not be used to impose neoliberal policies. I am not criticising the SF rapporteur for not reading El País, nor am I daily, but I have been given the quote. It tells us what these are, at least at this stage, rumours that the Commission has raised in the discussions with the Spanish Government. And one of the things the Commission has raised is that the prerequisite for paying out money from the Recovery Fund is that Spanish pensions do not follow price developments. It can also be said more directly: Spanish pensioners must, day by day, become poorer and poorer compared with the rest of the population. Yes, that is what is written in El País, i.e. that it is negotiated in government offices. Another point that is mentioned is the question of trade union rights, which was dropped by the bourgeois government and which the new government wanted to reinstate, but trade union rights must not be reinstated. It can then be said that this can really happen, because I am sure that good forces, such as the Social Democrats and the SF, have been given a guarantee that under no circumstances could this be used to restore this neoliberal policy of cuts to employees. But unfortunately, there is no such thing in the agreement. So there is one more reason why we cannot support the recovery package and therefore also believe that it should be blocked and therefore wants a referendum. The fourth and final argument is that we were never allowed to vote on the Lisbon Treaty. So, the basis for the whole regime on which the European Union is based today is the Treaty of Lisbon, and the Danish people have never been allowed to vote on it. So I have a fresh exchange for the minister: okay, we drop the vote on the recovery package, and then we vote on the Lisbon Treaty, so that the basis on which the EU is working has popular support, just as it did when it voted on the Maastricht Treaty and later on the Edinburgh Agreement. We think it is absolutely essential that there is that support, and we cannot see it today. That is why it is clear that, when there is an opportunity to give the public an opportunity to take a position with all three other arguments I have mentioned, then, of course, we support it. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220758	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220804	I would like to thank you for your support. I am pleased that we can agree on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220813	So I would like to hear: did the agreement also go against the fact that the European Commission, with the help of the Council sitting on the decision on loans, should be able to use it to implement a neoliberal policy? If that is the case, then I think it is brilliant. It is certainly something that is very close to our hearts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220840	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it has become the rapporteur of the proposers. Welcome to sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217220851	Thank you. New citizens believe that the Danes should be heard in a referendum on Denmark's accession to the EU recovery plan. For the first time, we Danes and our children must be liable for a loan made by the European Union. Joint debt creation will increase the pressure on the need for EU taxes. Denmark's commitment to the EU will increase significantly with the recovery plan. The European Commission has long been working for the EU to have its own tax revenues and an unnecessary precedent will be created. There is no guarantee that the Member States receiving grants or loans will carry out the necessary reforms to prevent countries from returning to an unfair economic situation. 750 billion. Euros, approx. 6,500 billion. kr., the Danes must repay our nice part of in the period from 2028 to 2058. With conservative mandates, it was ensured that the government could travel to Brussels with an absurd mandate... a mandate for the historic debt of the Danes. With the EU recovery plan, the Danes are committed not only to an increase in payments to the EU, the Prime Minister's accession to the Recovery Fund is also an flagrant breach of an earlier promise not to send any more money to the EU. I would like to thank the Left for not agreeing to give the government that mandate. In New Citizens we do not believe that the Danes should be enslaved to the EU. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. extra a year it will cost the Danish taxpayers for 30 years. In addition, in the agreement, the European Commission states in black and white that it will work for new revenue and a reform of the revenue base. It is a major democratic problem that the Danish Parliament and the government are giving away money, which the Danes have confidently paid in tax, naturally in the expectation that the tax crowns would go to our own welfare community, to hospitals, schools, care for the elderly, etc. for the benefit of us in Denmark. At the same time, the EU refuses to save on current expenditure, on the contrary. Britain has resigned, but the European Union completely ignores this. They merely increase the cost of the remaining countries. The European Union continues as if nothing had happened. Together with the proposal for a recovery fund that is on the table, Denmark is expected to increase expenditure on the EU by 23 per cent. Unfortunately, the Danish constitution does not oblige the Danish Parliament to hold a referendum on this increased debt obligations, but any reasonable and democratic idea advocates that the Danes be heard freely and directly in this matter, because the Danes have never been asked. Danish citizens have never been given the opportunity to take a position. Will we and our children really cut our own welfare society to support, for example. the southern European countries? Supporters may say that redistribution is necessary in the light of corona. That idea must be rejected. The money will only come out to work from the earliest in the summer of 2021. The money must be targeted at measures that emphasise everything but economic recovery, for example. climate action. It is doubtful that the aid package will work as intended. None of these extra corona money can change the self-inflicted suffering of the South European economies. Danes therefore do not pay for the recovery of the EU; Danes pay for early retirement, undeclared work and lack of moderation in southern Europe. The recovery that the European Union wants is a restoration of the image of the European Union, an image that has been damaged during the Corona crisis, because confidence in the European Union has once again suffered a break. The European Union is once again interfering without courage, the European Union is once again perplexing the necessary national measures. National self-determination, decentralisation and local democracy are de facto incompatible with the spirit and letter of the European Union. Money that goes from Danish welfare to central government in Brussels and to southern Europe cannot be further away from the citizens. The principle of subsidiarity is shattered by this centralist recovery plan. The European Union always wants more centralisation and power in Brussels. It is surprising that the government and, in particular, the Conservatives agree. If the Danes are to be responsible for a huge borrowing in the EU, the Folketing should now ask the Danes whether the Danes agree with this debt. That is why we are discussing this resolution today while time remains. All countries have a right of veto when it comes to the recovery plan. The recovery plan cannot enter into force unless all countries ratify it nationally. The Danes must be heard when they are strapped to the EU's debt union. They haven't been. That is the opportunity we will take, it is the opportunity to say no to giving away the Danes' money, we will make the subject of a referendum. Then I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten for supporting the resolution and thank you for the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217221407	And I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201217221424	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 18 December 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
