ParlaMint-DK_20200617100019	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Mads Fuglede (V), Marie Krarup (DF), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Pernille Vermund (NB): Motion for a resolution No. B 185 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls and similar religious expressions in public spaces). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100059	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100111	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party has tabled a proposal requiring the government to submit legislative proposals by the end of 2020 which will make morning singing compulsory in all the country's primary and secondary schools. The motion for a resolution is justified by the fact that common morning songs can contribute positively to the community at the individual school and in society in general. That is the basic content of this proposal. I would like to say that I have rarely come across a proposal which, on the control side, is so opposed to what I am actually in favour of us looking into the primary school as this is doing. It is not because I have something against morning singing, but because I think it is a retail management which should simply not be in primary school. Like the Danish People's Party, I am excited about Phillip Faber's morning song on DR1, and that together you have been able to sing with each other at home and have sung in everything. There is no doubt that morning songs and songs on balconies, by the way, on roads and everything else where they have been organized, have created enormous joy and enormous cohesion, and there is no doubt that they do so in places where they have morning songs in schools and in high schools. So it's not the morning song that's the challenge. In fact, we share the enthusiasm for common singing. Every time we, as Social Democrats, are gathered together, that is. At our group meetings, too, it is the case that we are singing. It is not because it always sounds great, especially if I participate in the festivity, but it is a fantastic tradition, and it creates exactly cohesion and unity. I have climbed on my own countless times when I see a red flag smashing, and I would say that for me there is no doubt at all that common songs have been strengthened with the coronarium. I believe that our society is very much in favour of this as a Community element, but I do not think that we should decide from a central point of view whether and how schools should sing common songs. So this must be something you decide on in a decentralised way. It should be entirely up to the individual school to decide how to organise it. I do not believe that we are faced with a situation in which schools and educational institutions should be subject to more rules from the centre and more control from the centre. On the contrary, I believe that we must move in exactly the opposite direction. They must have freedom back much more than they do today. There is also something that causes me to run cold down my back, thinking that all Danish school pupils at 1 p.m. 8:00 a.m. stands and sings the same songs all over the country because we have decided it from the centre. I do not think that is good. It has to be something you decide on in a decentralised way. We in the government have a great deal of confidence in the Danish teachers and school leaders, and of that confidence higher degrees of freedom should follow than is the case today in relation to the possibility of running a school. There's a camera that should have some oil. Well, I do not think that Christiansborg should be able to put the clocks so that they call in to teaching at the same time in all schools. I think you can plan that better yourself. I do not think that we should decide that we should sing at certain times or sing certain songs or that we should sing. I think you have to decide for yourself. We want schools to have much greater freedom locally, and that is why, by its very nature, we cannot support a proposal to make morning song compulsory. So it is very good as a Community element, and that is why I can recommend to anyone who does not do so in advance to start a song tradition. It feels incredibly nice to start the day like this with each other in a community, but should we decide that from the central point of view? No, we're not. So the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100506	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100508	Yes, thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I am glad that we share the enthusiasm for singing, that we share the enthusiasm for the community it creates, because the framework it creates, for the development it creates. I don't like it when the minister tries to create a picture that what we want is to say that the time it's all standing and singing the same song all over the country. That's not what this is all about. But it is about the fact that when we agree that there is really great value for children and young people in singing in the community it creates, why shouldn't we push on? So, the Minister says: recommend. What if we said: No, once a week, at the time you think is reasonable, stand up and sing a song that you find out? There is a great deal of freedom in it. But I really want to say that we want you to have that experience, because if you haven't had the experience, then you don't know it. And we share the experience... the minister shares the experience... so why don't you give it extra push and say, "Well, get started?"
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100619	Well, that is because, on the part of the government, we believe that the detailed management of our primary schools has gone completely crazy, and that is why we helped to ensure that the common objectives were no longer compulsory, but that they became voluntary. And there are still some huge challenges with the limitation of freedom in relation to schools and it sucks out the joy of work from teachers, and this makes basic education less exciting than if teachers get that freedom. I simply do not believe that we should sit in here and learn how best to put different elements together in the individual schools. It's just not gonna work. We do not take the view that each school must have a roundball tournament, because it can help to create a community across class levels, that you have common Olympic games that you have in some schools, where you then compete against each other and have a few days when you get to know each other together. We do not consider that the individual schools say to all the fifth classes that they should be the farm friend of one of the small ones, so that they feel safe knowing that there are some of the big ones who can help them. It is all incredibly good and important measures • but no, it is not something that we from Christiansborg decide; it is something that you decide at the individual schools. I think morning singing is a really good idea. I think it should be decided at the individual school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100727	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100728	It is not because we want detailed management at all ends and edges, but we do have areas where we already control it and where we do it because we think it is important. We think it is important that there is some exercise in everyday life... so we say that it should be done out there. Now that we agree that singing actually has such great value as it does, why can we not agree to say: well, it must also be an element of school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100755-2	That is because, in my opinion, we should, in the best of our knowledge, go exactly the opposite way. Prior to the elections and a few years ago, we had discussions about making a non-paragraph. There was the Danish People's Party, and I hope that the Danish People's Party is still very interested in the fact that the municipalities avoided making the things that had been made possible something mandatory. I thought that was the right way to go. And I don't even see how this is compatible with it. I have actually had an experience that we have been in line with each other on a very long stretch compared to the degrees of freedom in the primary school in recent years, and this also applies to the day institutions, in relation to not allowing the municipalities to run in detail in that way. I hope that remains the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100840	Thank you. Then we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100859	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, the morning song will be made compulsory in all the country's primary schools and in the upper secondary secondary schools. I can find really, really many good arguments for singing morning songs. I have not succeeded in finding an argument as to why we should decide it from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100933	There's no comment, of course, there is, but sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has to press in. Yes, it was quick, but here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617100937	The rapporteur was so quick that I barely managed to get my finger on the button. I'm sorry. The rapporteur says that there are very many good arguments for singing, that there are very many good arguments for morning singing. But there wasn't an argument against us thinking it's so important when we think it's so good when we think it's something we should do, so don't say it too. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101002	What I am saying is that I can find a lot of arguments to suggest that this is a good idea. I sing myself with great joy, and I remember that at my first primary school we sang morning songs. As the Minister said, it is a weekly occurrence in the Socialist Group room, and I myself have sung in the student associations that I have come into. I think there's really good reason for that. What I said was that while there are a lot of arguments for singing morning songs, I haven't found an argument for why it's something, we and it's based on the fact that I actually think there are lots of teachers, school leaders, scout leaders, all sorts out there who actually want to sing and want to do it because it creates a community. I think they should be allowed to do so, and I think they will do more after the corona crisis, because there has been very good experience of it and because it has been something we have done together in this time of crisis. But I still can't find an argument for • but it may be that the rapporteur for the proposers has a • why this is something we have to decide at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101058	Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101100	Well, the arguments are that we know that singing helps create a framework; singing helps help children and young people to focus on the community; singing helps collect across cultural differences; singing has really, very many good qualities. That is the argument to say that then it is not something you just decide whether you do at all you decide how and what you sing and how you handle it, but we just think it should be something that goes on everywhere, so everyone gets, if I may say so, exposed to it and actually gets to experience the value it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101138	I do not know whether the rapporteur for the proposers knows any schools where no teachers have experienced that it may be good to sing a joint song. So, I do not know whether the rapporteur for the proposers knows about areas of Danish society that are simply so cleansed of common song that not one person has had that experience and thus can bring that idea to the table. But if the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is in such a position, that is to say we think it is a good idea here, then I wonder why he is only proposing it in schools and in upper secondary education. I mean, it doesn't stop if we want to regulate into the detail what we're going to do. And that is why I am saying that there is no good argument for us to decide it, but there are a lot of good arguments for singing morning songs, and I think that is what many of the teachers, many of the schools, many of the high schools will do, both before and after that resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101234	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs. Gitte Willumsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101253	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative for this important debate on morning song in this Chamber with proposal B 164. Singing makes you happy. When we sing, endorphins are triggered, and our mental health improves. Most of us know that feeling. In the Left we welcome the intention of more common singing at the country's schools and upper secondary education. Common song is a proud and strong tradition, which for many years has been built up in some places anchored with Grundtvig and the High School songbook and elsewhere with the little ones singing for the smallest. It is a tradition that has been maintained over the years by voluntary means, and of course we must support this from the political side. During the Corona crisis, communal singing has reached completely new heights, perhaps even a kind of rebirth in some circles. Thus, DR with Phillip Faber and Mads Steffensen in the program has had ratings of over one million each, and it has beaten X Factor· with hundreds of thousands of viewers. So common singing is something special: We get engaged and emotionally affected • it's alive. However, the Left does not believe that it is the right way to go about introducing legal requirements for morning singing. We do not think so for any more reason. Firstly, the tradition of common song is quite well maintained over the years, so it is not necessary to force the Danes into the song books. Secondly, and this is perhaps more important, we are opposed to such detailed management of the country's schools and upper secondary schools, where you will be required to sing together every morning. It is not difficult to imagine examples where it would be inappropriate and do more harm than good to have such a legal requirement. If e.g. a gymnasium is busy for a period of time it could be in the middle of the exam period it is crazy that the high school must be forced to gather students and teachers to sing when time could be used more sensibly in other ways. It's more important that high school concentrates on the most important thing, that is, the exam in this example. We believe that the institutions must continue to have a free framework for planning daily life. They know best for themselves what makes sense in them. I am also convinced that in the vast majority of schools and upper secondary educations there are already quite voluntary and good examples of common songs, whether in the classroom, in the teacher's room or in the community hall. The Danish primary schools teach music. Here are the cornerstones of the Danish songs, and at the same time there is a focus on the music tradition's connection with social and cultural life. This can be seen from the common goal of music of the Ministry of Children and Education. The general education of children and young people through song is therefore already a priority. We can be proud of that. It is a tradition that we must fight to keep to. But a legal requirement for morning singing would be like kicking in an open door. Instead, let us show confidence in Danish schools and upper secondary education. They are the ones who are best at organising how much and how often they will sing. So the Left cannot support the proposal B 164.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101646	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101649	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur says that singing is happy and that common singing is a proud and strong tradition, and so is it, and I could also hope that it could live and be widespread everywhere, but that is not what we are experiencing, and that is why we are putting forward this proposal. We haven't said that you have to do it every morning. In fact, we have proposed that it should be possible to do so once a week so that it can be fit into the everyday life that is out there. So since it is so proud and strong a tradition when it makes people so committed, I do not understand why the rapporteur at the same time says that there are more important things to do, i.e. that it is more important to use the time to prepare for the teaching that you now have, rather than just spending 5 or 7 minutes on a common song and what it does for the community. Therefore, I would like to challenge the rapporteur a little and ask: if we agree on all the good things in this, why not give it a little push and say that we also want it to happen out there, that we want to make sure that everyone experiences it, so that it is not just those who happen to go to a school where they have discovered it that gets the experience of how good song is and what it can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101802	That's because we don't want to run primary and secondary education. You have a living environment out there, and the individual teachers are best at planning for themselves how everyday life should be. In the folk schools, the Music Teachers' Association organizes what is called the School Song Day, and there you push on from the Music Teachers' Association, so that common singing becomes something they will experience in all schools. But going out and saying exactly how to do it at the individual school, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101837	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101838	I'm just surprised, because I think we have a common agenda that we cherish about the Danish song treasure, that we cherish about the Danish traditions, and we really want to have our children and also the children who might have come from other places experience and get to know, so that it becomes part of their culture and background before they get out of school. Therefore, I still wonder why the Left cannot support us giving this is a push, so we say that we actually want all children who attend the Danish primary school, all young people who attend the Danish upper secondary educations, to have this positive experience of what it is that song can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101927	That's exactly what it says in the common goal of the music profession. It says exactly that you have to sing Danish songs, that you have to sing hymns, and that you have to sing shows that are Danish anchored. It's in the goal of every class all the way down. So we have proud traditions for this, and we focus on it, but to go in and say that you have to gather for morning song by legal requirements, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101949	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617101951	I have to say, it's rather disappointing to experience the Left in this case, which is usually associated with the whole song tradition, the Folkehøjskolen's Songbook, Grundtvigianism, Hostrup etc. It is very sad to see that the Left is not willing to give this impetus to the morning song, because the fact is that it is in the process of winding up. So, like so many parts of what we can say is the core of Danish culture, both in primary school, but also outside, it is under pressure and during liquidation for several reasons. One thing is, of course, that there are some other traditions coming in from outside, but it is also because there are some things in school that students may need to be animated a little, that is something that is pushed a little. And if you just let it be a free choice, it is clear that as a teacher you stand in some opposition to the students, where it may be nice to be able to say: Well it is actually in the law; it is something the politicians have decided, because this has an independent value; we sing morning song, as your father did, as your grandmother did, and the generations before. I simply do not understand the position of the Left here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102057	Now I have my day-to-day time at a primary school, in that I am here as an alternate and actually a trained teacher and working at a primary school, and I am experiencing something quite different from what the rapporteur is talking about here. I actually experience that songs take up a lot in everyday life. When you meet across schools, you actually sing a lot. So I simply cannot recognize the interpretation of the rapporteur's resolution. The song lives strong, and it does, among other things. because there is a strong music teacher's association that focuses on this, and because the School Leader's Association generally also supports talking about it here. So the fact that the song should be under pressure is not how I see it, and in the Left we do not think that we should run the primary school in detail to the extent that this proposal proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102148	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102148-2	Well, I don't understand that ideological challenge, that is, that we want to run retail. It is not the case that we want to sit and make a curriculum and say which songs are to be sung 365 days a year. We just want the good Danish tradition, which many have grown up with, until perhaps 30 years ago, when it came into liquidation, to come back. And I have to say that I do not know where Mrs Willumsen is moving around in Danish society, because when you talk to young people, it is not my impression that the songs of the folk high school or the songs of the Psalm Book, or whatever it may be, are so most prominent. So, I could almost be tempted to ask what kind of reality Mrs Willumsen usually moves around in, because that is certainly not the one I experience when I'm around the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102231	But there is also a development in the song culture, and the songs that young people are singing today may also be slightly different. That is not to say that the traditional songs are not singing, but there is a development in the song culture, and that must also be supported in primary school. So there is a lot going on in relation to singing and song development in schools, and I think the Music Teachers Association is doing a really nice job about singing in primary school. But starting to say precisely from Christiansborg on how to have morning songs out in the individual schools, we cannot in any way support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102313	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102321	Now it was not this rapporteur who argued that there is not as much song as there used to be, but I would still ask, because I was just taking the trouble to go to Google and I see that the Højskole songbook is now on the bestseller list for the first time. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that there is now more common song than before?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102347	I can, and I think my speech supported that too, in that I said that common singing had probably been rebirthed in some circles. Some people have realized what singing together can do, but I believe that the song in schools on which this proposal is based has lived all the time and continues to do so. So I do not think we are going to legislate on this, but I think it is nice that common singing is going to live more in the general public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102417	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102420	I fully agree with the rapporteur and have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102424	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is actually Mrs Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102444	I love to sing, and I have actually been awake last night to wonder if I shouldn't sing from Parliament's platform, or if I could perhaps make a special song for the Danish People's Party by versioning a high school song, but I couldn't really come up with a suitable song. So I'm sorry. Instead, I would just like to say that I and the Radical Left strongly support singing lessons in primary school. It's just there already. We also warmly support common singing, and contrary to what we just heard from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, we see an increasing popularity in common songs, an increasing popularity around the Højskole songbook, and I think that is fantastic. So I also fully agree with both the Social Democratic rapporteur and the Minister that there is no need for detailed management of morning singing at the Danish primary and secondary schools. It would then be appropriate to ask the question that, if there were at last to be, why should it only be in the primary and secondary schools? Why not, then, on vocational training? Are they apparently not formed enough to sing high school songs in the book of the Danish People's Party? Either way, we don't think there's a need for a detailed regulation of this, but we really want to help strengthen music education widely and in all the programmes where there is music education. But we cannot back this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102616	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102617	Thank you. It could have been an interesting thing if the rapporteur had sung his speech. I am not sure if the President had just thought the right thing to do, so perhaps it is good enough that it was as it was. I share the desire that songs should spread out, that songs should be used in several places, and when we have not brought the vocational schools, it is actually because we have started somewhere and have said: let us now take the discussion, let us now find out whether we really agree that this is important. I hear we agree that this is important. But we do not agree that it is so important that we should actually do something about it; that it is so important that we should say that where it is actually not, it should also be so that we are sure that the communities that it creates for children will be created. It sets a framework. This makes it possible for people across cultures to actually be together about something, to have a common experience that you can carry on with you afterwards. Why can we not agree to take the small step and say that yes, it must be done out there in some form they themselves control and where they decide how and when, but that it should be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102727	I can confirm that we agree that this is important. But I can also confirm that we disagree on the method, and that is simply because, firstly, we do not want more detailed management in our schools in general, and secondly, because we see that there is an increasing popularity. So I don't see the need to stop singing down my throat or maybe pull it out of the necks of the country's primary and secondary school students.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102750	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102752	Now I hope that the rapporteur does not really mean it by stopping it down the throat. For my experience from a lot of places is that if you have it, you will really like it. But a lot of places you may not feel, because you are a little unsure about it, and you think that you can also choose from it. Perhaps there are also some who have little resistance. So if we just took responsibility from in here and said that we really want that to happen, then I think it would be a lot easier for those who want it to be, to make sure that it happens, and then we will have the common song that we actually want to be out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102828-2	Yeah, I literally meant that. Because as I said, I love to sing, but if, when I was a primary or secondary school student, I had been told that now the Folketing had decided that I should sing morning songs at a certain time, I don't think a sound had come out of my throat. Basically, I believe that this is something that needs to be promoted locally and at the level of teachers at the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617102857	The SF cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that the same applies to the Enhedslisten. We are at an exciting time in school policy after a number of years, when Christiansborg politicians with lower-value educational complexes have wanted to interfere in everything that is going on in the Danish primary school. This has led to minimum hours in individual subjects, more than 3,000 binding learning goals, which are now fortunately no longer binding, and digital learning platforms where you have to get in and cut off with your flybones, what you have exactly learned. And I saw that up against the election campaign there were 40 new proposals for what the primary school should be able to do beyond what they already have to do today, which has created historically long school days and minimum hours in individual subjects. Finally, there's a movement going the other way. One can call it a freedom movement, a movement of confidence, where one believes that those who know best are actually those who are educated; that those who are wise to run school are those who are at school; and that we from Christiansborg must set a good framework so that skilled people can teach children who hopefully also become skilled. I have been very fond of that movement, and therefore I was somewhat puzzled when I saw this proposal, which not only goes against that movement, and which will not only control that all schools now have to sing morning songs and I love morning songs, we have sung morning songs at my school, and as a group chairman I have introduced it into my own parliament group to great frustration for individual politicians.But now I want to run down into the detail, whether schools should sing morning songs once a week, and I can even see that the Danish People's Party also has opinions that it should be mainly in Danish. I love the Danish language, but it is a government that goes against the freedom and trust movement that we have worked so hard for in the SF. There are plenty of amazing things that schools can do and that they do. I've met schools that are firmly moving from morning to morning in such moving bands. I have met schools that read newspapers from the morning, and schools where you can be allowed to do what is like mindfulness, but which in reality is just sitting still and thinking. The minister himself mentioned assemblies and competitions in sport; anti-bullying, that is to say, understood as such some groups of students who go around and make sure to talk to the students who may not be feeling very well. There are a great many good initiatives around, and perhaps they have just come because there are no Christiansborg politicians who will manage everything that is going to happen out there. So we say no, not because we don't like morning songs, but because Christiansborg doesn't have to run everything that's going to happen in the Danish primary school. However, I would like to give the Danish People's Party and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is an offer because I am pragmatic, and we have made many good agreements together that if the Danish People's Party will be involved in negotiating shorter school days, more freedom for schools, more hours with two adults, we will in turn be willing to negotiate that we set aside money to give all Danish schools and educational institutions songbooks. At the same time, we may be able to set aside some money to update the teaching material, because in many places you cannot afford to buy new books and teaching material. Then I actually believe that many people will choose to find good local solutions by way of voluntary service. Mrs Sophie Callesen mentioned that she was considering singing from the platform. I'll spare you that, but because I really thought I'd like to be a little creative, I've tried to cook my and SF's school policy attitude into a kind of little poem that could also be printed in a songbook. It says: How nice it is that we are now talking about freedom in primary school across the Danish Parliament, and that is why we are of course not voting in favour of a proposal that will run retail how much to sing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103328	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103330	Thanks for the poem. That was completely new qualities that came out up there from mr. Jacob Mark. We fully agree that what this is about in primary school is very much professionalism, and not about how many or how few hours there are, but what is going on while you are there. Sir. Jacob Mark also says that we need to provide a framework, we need to provide a good framework, and one of the things common songs that morning songs can contribute to is precisely to provide a good framework for experiencing the collective community across years, the good framework for experiencing it across cultural differences, the good framework for gaining a common learning, a sense of community. We secure so many other things, sir. Jacob Mark is absolutely right, and I am sure we will ensure too much in some areas too, and we have also agreed to cut back on some of the demands that were out there, and we must continue to do so. But if we now agree that communal singing actually gives so much so that even the SF group is subject to it when the group chairman ensures that it is done, could we not also say that they should also do so in the public schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103445	There are many things that give children a great deal, for example. to go for a walk in the woods, experience nature, e.g. I'm gonna sit here and read the paper. I am very concerned that reading skills are declining and that the page of immersion is declining and that there are fewer people reading the newspaper than before. There are many things that would be wonderfully good for children and that we can encourage, talk about, provide a better framework for, but which we should not force schools to do, because I believe that schools will be best when they have the freedom to create the framework that they think is best for children out there locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103528-2	So far along the way we do not disagree, but we still have to set a few frames from in here. But the question is, if we now enter into a debate and say that we are strengthening professionalism, we are looking at how many hours it takes to ensure the best possible professionalism, does the SF agree that part of it could be about us saying that we should also have morning songs out in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103556	As a general rule, I believe that the school policy approach of Christiansborg should be that we steer harder on frameworks and resources, ensure that there are enough trained staff, that there are not too many pupils in the classes, that there is a good indoor climate, but that the content and pedagogy are more free. Nor am I in favour of controlling how many times we have to sing. If the Danish People's Party takes it to a debate where, in return, we get a lot of SF policy through, I am sure we can make many incentives for more singing, for example. by ensuring that there are songbooks out locally. But that's what we'll have to do then.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103635	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103636	I have just asked for the floor to say that I was with Mr. Thompson. Jacob Mark at the karaoke bar in Tokyo in 2018, and I want to hear about Mr. Jacob Mark agrees with me that it was a good idea for me to use my right as Head of Delegation to declare all sound and image recordings a state secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103701	Yes, it was a very good idea, both for the individual participants on the trip, but also for the people's regime. On that trip we were together across parties, if, after all, you have to share that secret and there were some rapporteurs who work very closely together, and some who may not have had such a tradition of working together. But singing together actually made you a little closer to each other on that trip. That is also why I say that I think singing is fantastic, and I would like more of it. I would also like to encourage it, but like Mr. Henrik Dahl has been a freedom fighter in the education and school system, so am I. And SF wants more freedom, and then we don't have to control how much is to be singed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103747	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617103806	Thank you. Common morning song again. Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt unfortunately left, but after many years of school break, more people are actually restoring morning songs. That's what a teacher student in his bachelor project tells us. There are many reasons for this, and that is very good. Morning song actually went downhill in the 1960s and 1970s under the very socialist spirit, where we were all supposed to be equal and sit there and be the same, and we were supposed to go against much of the classic. But morning songs can give a sense of community, singing joy and maintaining a cultural heritage. In fact, morning song goes back a long way. It is an old tradition from 1814 when singing was introduced as an integral part of the school's everyday life. So morning song can actually be supposed to have existed for 160-200 years. Singing has many educational aspects in relation to the community around the song, cultural and historical heritage, socialization, community feeling, singing joy, vi-feeling, identity, being itself, integration and much more. These are values that are at least important for the Conservative People's Party. In addition, it also provides a certain form of democratic education; being able to listen to others and contribute, as well as sides such as training attention, learning ways of expressing oneself, behavior. So there are many important things in relation to song. The schools have the task of both educating and forming pupils for everything. This is a common matter for all teachers in schools. It can also be said that each school is a unit, a culture, and one bears a great responsibility in schools. When you have morning songs at school, it's about creating a sense of community, and that's positive, and many do. This is also the case in music lessons around the world in the various schools. It is important that we strengthen the musical and the song. So we do not disagree that morning singing is good, and fortunately we also experience it very much. I also believe that thanks to Phillip Faber, the high school song book has now largely come to the top of books here in the coronatide. So it doesn't take much until you get that attention about the value of it. The Conservative People's Party would rather have the positive encouragement of singing in schools, and it does not come of itself either. This requires that there is the necessary competence and resource to be able to carry out the tasks. Unfortunately, in many schools we find that there is only one music teacher for 500 or 700 students who have to work hard on this project themselves. After all, we would like to look at how to strengthen our teacher training and hope that we will soon get the Commission that was set up after the evaluation of teacher training on how to strengthen teacher training. And why not also there look at how we get music and sing into it. We hope that the Minister will look into that as soon as possible. Now I think this whole project of strengthening teacher training has been going on for three years. So we hope that we can look at that in this context, in other words, create the framework for our schools so that they can sing better. And when we talk about it, we could also take a look at our youth education. I fully agree that we must also look at vocational training and elsewhere, in other words how we can bring in some of these educational aspects. So not with compulsion, but with encouragement and security of capacity. So thank you for taking it up as a very important topic, which I think we should take into account in our further discussions on teacher training, etc., and on how to strengthen our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104150	There's a comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104156	Thank you very much for your speech. When I heard Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll's speech now here, I thought that was when all the good arguments were made we have a 200-year-old tradition, it is formation, it is development, it is everything possible. And then I thought that this proposal would be supported, because we agree on how important it is. But no, they should be allowed to decide for themselves out there anyway. I think that's a little weird. Then there is talk of strengthening teacher training, and we fully agree with that. In the Danish People's Party we have come up with a proposal to make the music teacher's education academy based on some extent, so as to ensure the deep professionalism which may be needed precisely if you are to raise musical learning to a higher level; also to develop that part, because it is not extremely attractive. In many places they find it difficult to get well - trained music teachers. But isn't it that we can say about all these values that they actually have to do that out there when we agree that it's both a century long tradition and that it's actually really, really important for formation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104305	There have been so many different things knocked down over primary school in recent years. To start making a new move just like this one-on-one, without really knowing what is going to happen in so many other areas, we think we would be a pity. Once again, we also think that we cannot say that this is something they should do if we cannot also guarantee that they have the capacity to carry out the task. That is why we are also opposed to coercion. We want to encourage it; it does so very much, and they themselves plan it. They also use the song in all kinds of other ways to celebrate, for example. The valdemarsdag they use it to a great extent. And that is what must also be included in teacher training, so that we get the whole educational aspect. And then we must strengthen the musical part in particular. There are also several countries where you have experimented to strengthen the musical, and it turns out that it actually promotes a different kind of intelligence and ability to concentrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104405	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104406	Well, that's actually more arguments about how important it is. There are several of the other rapporteurs who have also mentioned that we have the demand for music lessons out there, so they want the capacity of schools to deal with this if that is what they want. But it is a development that has gone backwards. Well, 30 years ago it was quite general that you had morning songs that were just like that. Right now it may be that it has been given a renaissance, because we have had the experience of common songs during covid-19 etc., but it is something that is challenged. And it's something that needs us to say from in here that it's important that it's something you have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104447	I do not agree that it has gone back. I think we need some more evidence. What I've read up to is also in a bachelor project by a teacher student who's just focusing on this is that it's actually increasing. When I was in primary school, yes, 30 years ago I probably went to one of the poorest schools in the country, we never saw the shadow of a song, and I was bored for nine years. Now I am also in a municipality, in children's councils and more, and I am visiting a lot of schools, and the students are singing. That's what I can hear from our own children... they're singing in the wild. And it's wonderful that they know more songs by heart than I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104525	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no rapporteur from New Citizens, as far as I can see, and then it is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104536	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which I think is very important. I myself have been lucky enough to attend a primary school and a high school that had very strong traditions in music. Tove Tersbøl's music school in Skærbæk, where I come from, is famous throughout South Jutland, and Thomas Alvad, who was head of the music school at Ribe Cathedral School, probably many of you know, although you may not know, because he has made many of the songbooks that are still used in music teaching. When the music lessons worked so well and everyone joyfully came to the morning song at Ribe Cathedral School, it was because the school first had a Steinway grand piano, and secondly a man who could play on it, namely the aforementioned Thomas Alvad, who was a conservatorian. So if you couldn't sing, you could come and hear Alvad play instead. I therefore hope that the Danish People's Party will return to something which Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, who is on leave from time to time, has been a strong advocate of improving music education. There is a huge need to improve music education around, for without skilled music educators interest disappears and the actual practice of music suffers from it. On the other hand, I also very, very much agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that there has been a long period of excessive regulation of both schools and colleges, and where both schools and colleges have been an ideological battleground, which none of these institutions have had particularly good, because those who have been forced out are in fact skilled professionals. There has been a tendency to do so for many years. Previously, the Ministry of Education had specialist consultants, who were experienced teachers with many stars on their shoulders, and who could somehow shoot down the most lofty ideas. It is a pity that one has weakened the possibility that people with a heavy educational professionalism and a great many stars on their shoulders can be such a voice of reason when the reformer grabs the Folketing and changing governments. In the light of this perspective, which is that we really should liberalise both primary and secondary schools and should give professionalism and educational development and decision-making power back to schools, we cannot support this proposal. On the other hand, I am very pleased to hear Mr. Jacob Mark's analysis, because I really agree with it, and if you could get more ideology out of school and high school, that is, educational policy ideology and crazy barbecues of one kind or another and get the skilled professionals back into a more central role, we would think it was very, very positive. Good things have happened in recent years, and I also believe that a lucky side effect of the corona epidemic has perhaps been that one has had to let go of some of the central control over the school and that teachers have had to improvise, and it has been shown that they can quite a lot. It has also been a beneficial side effect in our hospital system. And that may be something we have to keep, even though there are many other things we have to roll back when we get control of the epidemic. So this is a really important debate, and I really want to encourage the Danish People's Party to go ahead with this music education, because it is extremely important; but the proposal itself has something centralist about it that we cannot support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104929	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617104944	Here in the spring, where we were all most affected by the covid-19, we saw how common songs developed daily among isolated Danes around the country. The Danes stood on their balconies, at their open windows or elsewhere in their homes and broke out in common song. Danmarks Radio followed up with daily shared television broadcast morning song led by Philip Faber. It developed into a popular attraction for the Danes, which helps to strengthen the unity and community in a difficult time for Denmark, and which at the same time became a common popular point of reference in a very uncertain time. This shows that morning singing is important for many people and that it creates cohesion and joy. Another and similar initiative is the project "ALSANG 2020" which seeks to strengthen the community and to celebrate freedom and democracy by means of a morning song. We know that morning singing can contribute positively to community and cohesion. Singing creates a framework and helps children and young people to focus on the community. Singing creates atmosphere and community, and it brings together children across cultural backgrounds and ages. Common morning songs will provide children and young people with an insight into the Danish song treasure, promote general education and contribute positively to the integration of children and young people with a different cultural background from Danish. Fortunately, there are many places, as has also been mentioned, where morning singing is part of everyday life in the country's schools. But there are still many children and young people who do not know the Danish song treasure, and we in the Danish People's Party are frankly just sad. And it's sad because a lot of these songs and hymns in a fine way reflect the Danish mentality, the Danish people's life, the moods of life, the culture, our history and our communities. Gathering together for morning singing helps to promote the education and development of students and broaden their horizons. It is something that I actually have an experience of we generally agree in here that we want to achieve. That is why, of course, I am also disappointed that there is no greater support for the proposal than there is. I welcome the fact that there is support for doing something to support it. Sir. Jacob Mark says that we can make sure that there are songbooks out there, and that is of course one thing that could be a small element in it. Another part, of course, is the music, as several have also mentioned. We can address another group: teacher training and music teacher training, which we from the Danish People's Party have previously made a proposal to link up with the conservatories, so that we can make sure that there is actually the music educational and musical gravity in a music teacher's education, which could make it more prominent in schools. But thank you very much for the debate. Not thank you for your support, but thank you for a good debate. And thank you for, yes, good thoughts on what we'd like to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617105247	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 1 p.m. where questions have been answered to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130002	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130019	The first question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Peter Skaarup, and I'll say that the co-questioner here is Mr. Skaarup. Morten Messerschmidt. Sir. Peter Skaarup for reading the question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130022	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's view that, according to the Ministry of Finance, the Commission's draft budget will increase Denmark's contribution to the EU by 6.7 billion? kr., and does the Minister have an opinion on whether the increased Danish contribution should be financed through tax increases or through savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130047	Thank you. On the part of the government, we have always said that the EU budget must be maintained as it is today. This means that we are ready to increase expenditure and the Danish EU contribution in line with the development of prosperity in the EU, no more or less. We think that is both solidarity, fairness and responsibility. This also means that we are faced with a very important task of limiting the increase in the EU contribution compared to the Commission's proposal. A profit of 6,7 billion. kr. is way too much. This task can be solved in several ways. The central issue for the government is, of course, what the EU contribution ends up being, and that is why we also attach a decisive importance in our negotiating mandate to limiting the increase in the Danish EU contribution by maintaining a Danish rebate and by reducing EU expenditure under the multiannual financial framework. There can therefore be no doubt that our negotiating objective is a lower increase in the Danish EU contribution than that proposed by the Commission. That is what we want to work for and fight for from the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130156	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130157	Thank you. Now the Minister for Finance is talking about an increase and that one would like to have a lower increase than that, it will be with what the Commission wants Denmark to pay. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether the Minister for Finance thinks that there is any need for an increase at all. I mean, why, really? The countries have enough challenges, Denmark has enough challenges to cope with the Corona crisis and all the costs associated with it. Why should our budget contribution to the European Union even increase? That was one question. Since the Minister for Finance is talking about the government being given a mandate we have seen this this week during the negotiations, I would like to know how much the extra bill that Denmark can get from Brussels is going to be beyond the mandate before the government will veto. Because it is a clear possibility that the government, on behalf of the citizens, can veto and mark with the other countries that we simply do not want to do so. Then I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance how the government will finance the payment of the EU bill that we are going to experience, as I understand it in the Minister for Finance, no matter what. How will it be financed? How will the Folketing finance it? The Prime Minister has told us here in the Parliamentary Chamber last week that it may be through savings in climate action, perhaps through savings elsewhere in our state budget, but how does the government intend to finance what is needed to cover the EU bill? We all know that the money is scarce. There could be 1,000 kroner. to the folk pensionists here the other day. Can the Minister of Finance tell us whether it is the pensioners who are not getting any more money or who has to pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130400	Thank you. Then it's the finance minister, half a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130401	It is absolutely crucial from the Danish point of view that we have an agreement with the other EU countries, where Denmark retains its rebate • because we are already paying quite a lot to the EU and where we are as close to the negotiating point as Denmark thinks is the right one at all. We think that an extra bill of 6.7 billion. kr. is too high an amount. That is also why we have made it clear that we will fight with our beaks and claws to get that bill brought down. That is the task of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130438	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130439	But, Minister of Finance, does the government not believe that the Danes have a right to know how the bill that the government lays up for there should be from the EU should be financed, in other words who should pay it? It is certainly not too much to ask if, together with a tiny majority in the Danish Parliament, you now get a mandate that means that Denmark has to pay a bill, that you get to know how to finance it. Can't the Minister of Finance tell the Danish Parliament? And again, what does it take for the government to veto Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130514	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130515	What the government sees as the most important task here is to ensure that the bill is reduced in proportion to what the European Commission has proposed. We do not think we should have an extra bill of 6.7 billion. kr. So that is what we want to spend all our energy on, that is to say to get it down so that we have a more reasonable EU budget. And then it is clear that when we know what the Danish contribution is going to be, it will be dealt with in the context of the Finance Act, just as it has been done over all the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130548	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130552	Thank you, President. I have to admit that I think it's surprising that it's not as much as a politician, because we're accustomed to most of this government, but as a taxpayer and a voter, it's time to say that it's surprising how the nonchalant government takes this. In other words, we are talking about a potential additional contribution to the EU of over 6 billion. kr. And the government doesn't even make a bid where the money's coming from. One has been fortunate enough to get the Conservatives to cover the mandate, but can the Minister also give a guarantee that the Enhedslisten, who usually makes finance laws with this government, does not just raise taxes? It would be completely baroque to be in a situation where Italian citizens must have lower taxes financed by Danish taxpayers having to pay more. So if the Minister of Finance does not want to give any indication of where the money will come from, then we must wait in fear and trembling to be told... can we at least get a guarantee that Danish taxpayers will not have to finance tax cuts in Italy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130658	We do not in any way take the nonchalant on this task. On the contrary, the Danish Government is working in close cooperation with the Swedish, Austrian and Dutch Governments to bring down the amount to be paid. And I really think the Danish People's Party should support that instead of trying to make it appear as if it is not the task. We will do everything we can to ensure that the bill is as limited as possible. And when, at some point, we know what it is for a payment that is to be made to the European Union, then it goes into the budget law, just as it has done over all the years, and as will happen in the years to come. And who we're going to make finance agreements with, I think I'm a little early to say something about yet. I am aware, however, that the Danish People's Party has made a number of financial agreements where money has also gone to the EU. It was then with another government, and I do not think that made the Danish People's Party look differently on EU issues for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130800	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130801	But I also have no memory of a government that has made a potential increase to the EU of 34 per cent. And I note that the Minister of Finance will not deny that Danish tax increases should be subject to tax in Italy, as the Italian Deputy Prime Minister has been out to report. Quite frankly, I think this is something nonchalant, so we cannot get any clarity at all about what is actually the position. Well, we know that Denmark has 3 friends, and then there are 23 other countries, so that's 4 to 23, I have to understand; it's not exactly an optimistic message to send to the Danish taxpayers who are already facing enormous challenges on top of this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130835	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130835-2	I would like to see more countries in Europe having the same views as Denmark. But precisely because it is a tough debate that lies ahead, it is good that, after all, we have some strong friends in Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands. And there should be no doubt that what the Commission has proposed is too expensive and that it is too much money that we need to spend on the EU budget. Therefore, the Danish Government is working with others to bring that amount down, while at the same time we also think that the money spent on the EU should be spent wiser, among other things. to the green and to look after our external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130915	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130918	I can at least promise one thing, and that is that the Danish People's Party will follow this matter completely. And we want to know who has to pay the bill that the government is proposing that we now have to pay extra for the European Union. We want to follow through and see why the government does not veto a very, very heavy bill for the Danish people if it does not. And that is why I would like to give the Minister for Finance the chance to tell the Folketing one last time who will pay the bill in Denmark that the government is proposing to pay to the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130956	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617130957	Well, I'd like to say it, so hopefully it's now quite clear to Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup: We do not think that the bill proposed by the European Commission is the bill that Denmark has to pay. We think it should be a smaller bill, and that is what we are fighting for with everything we have. At the same time, we say that the money we saw spending in the European Union should be spent more wisely on the environment and climate, on digitalisation and on looking after the EU's external borders. So it is both a question of how much money we spend and also of how they are spent wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131032	The question is over. But we will continue with the Minister of Finance and questions from Mr. Peter Skaarup and with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131038	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131041	The question is this: does the Minister think that the EU's community aid fund should be translated as a loan to the countries concerned or as a gift?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131054	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131055	After all, the government is very clear in its announcement that we think it is important that, in a situation where some countries in the European Union have been hit extremely hard here during the covid-19, we show solidarity and that we help those countries. But we also think we should do this in a sensible way. And what we think is the best way to do this is to give them the opportunity to obtain loans which the countries in question will then have to pay back instead of transfers between countries, so that Denmark, for example, will have to pay for loans to other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131134	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131135	It sounds very nice what the Minister of Finance says time and time again: Well the Danish position is... etc. etc. The fact is that the Danish Government can whip or sing, and the four countries that are trying to work together on some of these things can actually do so, but when Germany as an economic locomotive in Europe joins France, it is very, very difficult for a country like Denmark to do a great deal. That is why I think it is a reasonable question, and that is why I should like to put it here to the Minister for Finance: what part does the government think it can take as a gift before the government wants to veto? I mean, I understand that the government prefers it as a loan, but the other countries are pulling in the direction of it being a gift. That is why I ask the government: will the government veto the fact that it will be a gift and will the government veto the fact that it will be a gift of a certain size? Because I think it is important for the Folketing and taxpayers to get an answer to that question. The second question I would like to ask the Finance Minister and the Socialists is: does the Minister think it is reasonable that tax increases to the Danes should finance Italian tax cuts? Because that is really what this is about. There may in fact be talk of the Danish side and the other countries giving money to Italy, while at the same time making tax cuts in Italy. Does the Minister think, and does the government think, that it is reasonable for Danish citizens to pay for Italian tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131318	What the government is saying is very clear. We think it is a good thing that we can help both Italy and Spain, and there may also be other countries that, on top of the covid-19, are facing very, very difficult situations because, as a society, we have been affected both in terms of health and economics. However, the aid that we think is right to give is that the countries concerned can borrow some money so that they can get through the crisis in a better way than otherwise. But that also means that those countries will have to pay back the money, so that it is not Danish taxpayers who will have to pay that bill. We think this is a healthy starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131356	Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131357	Yeah, and that's what I've heard. I have heard it last Wednesday, I think, or last Wednesday, and I have heard it today, i.e. what the position of the government is. But now we're getting closer. Now a mandate has been given which means that Denmark accepts increases in the level we pay to the European Union. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance once again what I have done before: what part must be taken as a gift before the government will veto?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131426	But the task, when we have to make a budget agreement with the other countries, is not that Denmark should veto; it is that we can agree on something sensible together. What we in Denmark think is the most sensible thing is that the aid we give to the countries concerned is loans which they then pay back themselves. Then there are some other countries that have a different position, and that is where we have to negotiate with each other. And there should be no doubt that we mean it. It may well be that we have said it many times, but it is important that we do so, because it also tells the other countries that we mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131503	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131506	Thank you, President. Now there should have been the Olympic Games this year, and one could almost believe that the Minister for Finance had been in sharp training in extravagance talk. I am quite sure that he would have gotten a gold medal in until more disciplines in it, because there are none of the questions we are asking here that we can get answers to. The financing of the Italian tax cuts is being completely undermined, the common debt is being completely eliminated, with 6.7 billion. kr. In addition to the Danish tax payers, one completely slips off on where the money is to come from, one completely slips off on. That is just the line, and I am quite sure that if the Minister for Finance were not the Minister for Finance, he would, if he were the Minister for Finance to reply in this way, think that he was extremely unsatisfactory. Because we need to know where Denmark stands. We need to know what the consequences of this recovery package are. After all, none of the previous recovery packages have been corrected in southern Europe, so why on earth should it do so? Now that you want to have a common debt, that is to say that Denmark, along with 26 other countries, has to take on debts of 750 billion. Euros, of which two thirds are to be given in donations to southern Europe, is that really reassuring, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131618	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131619	Well, I can see that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt again this week will give me a gold medal. The reality was the same last week, and I actually thought there would be something new schwung in that account. But it is clear that when you ask the same question week after week, you have to have a certain expectation if, by the way, it is a government that thinks the same answer is also the same. The answer is very, very clear: Denmark is working very hard and focused on the fact that what the Commission has proposed is too high a budget and that it needs to be reduced. We are working very hard to ensure that the aid we have to give to the countries most affected is loans that they have to pay back. Then there are some other countries that want something else and we will not go in and say some certain amount that is the balance, because if we did that it would be showing our cards to other countries that want something other than Denmark. That is why it is really, really important that we continue to move along with the Netherlands, together with Sweden, along with Austria, in the right direction, and I was hoping that the Danish People's Party would support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131727	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131727-2	You are tempted to repeat yourself when it is so obvious that the government will not answer the questions you ask. But the problem here, I would say to the Minister for Finance, is that the government is apparently not willing to take a hard stand. Yes, in one area: you insist on getting the amount down below 750 billion. kr., but we can't know how much the government is willing to accept. I mean, 749 billion. kr. Is that technically lower than that? Is that good enough for the government to say yes? Or we're going down to 745 billion. kr., or is it 740 billion. kr.? I think there are quite a lot of the 200,000 Danes who have lost their jobs in the coronatide, who want to know how much tax increase they get to finance a finance minister's EU policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131805	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131806	I believe that a great many Danes are pleased that there is a government struggling to ensure that the bill to be paid to the European Union is not greater than what is reasonable and is also concerned that the money we spend on the European Union, whether it be loans or on the EU budget, is spent on something sensible, and is also aware that yes, some countries have been particularly hard hit, and we would like to help them, but they must also pay the bill themselves. That is, we think, a good starting point and that is what we have been fighting for for for months. That is what we have received the support of a majority in the Folketing. That is what we want to fight for on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131843	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131846	Learned from the answers that came to Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, one might perhaps almost consider whether we in the Folketing should change the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing, because this is a Question Time, and one assumes that when one asks, one gets an answer. I have asked three or four times the same question, and so far I have not received an answer. I would just like to give the Minister for Finance and the Government another chance: how much must be achieved as a gift to southern Europe before the government will veto? That was the one question...
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131920	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Finance. Peter Skaarup Well, then I won't make the other one, but we'll follow the Rules of Procedure. ) Sorry, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131922	I think we will, after all, have the opportunity to discuss it again, sir. Peter Skaarup would surprise me otherwise. Our job is not to go in and have to veto. Our task is to find an agreement with the other countries, and there we have said, fortunately not only from Denmark, but together with the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria, that what we are going to work for is that the help we can give to those countries that badly need it is that they can borrow some money that they will have to pay back later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617131957	Thank you. Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Peter Skaarup, that I have just approved an urgent question where there may be an opportunity to ask the same questions. We thank the Minister for Finance and the authors. This question is over. Now we're going to the Attorney General's office. I would point out that there are eight questions here, but there are five of them that are being asked, so now we are doing everything we can to achieve everything, but we have to look at that. First of all, it is to the Minister of Justice of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132018	Here you go, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132022	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that there are residential areas where rescue workers and police cannot do their job in the normal way, but where extra personnel are required?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132032	Thank you for the question. I would like to emphasise that there are no areas in Denmark where the police and the preparedness cannot carry out their work. But there are areas where police and preparedness work is hampered by hostility to the authorities, for example. be at Christiania or in the exposed residential areas • and that is quite unacceptable. The primary task of the police and emergency services is to ensure that as a citizen of Denmark you can feel safe and secure. It is a task that is performed daily with great skill and dedication. It is a task which is carried out to the great benefit of all citizens in Denmark, not least the citizens who live in the vulnerable residential areas. That is why the police are also paying particular attention to preventive action in vulnerable residential areas in order to reduce crime and increase security in the areas. In the case of the corona virus, the police have been able to maintain police and preventive action in the areas, and the current crime picture is not different from the normal picture in the areas. Having said that, I would like to stress that we must ensure that the police and the emergency services, who work every day to ensure that we can all be safe, can rely on hard action if they are subjected to attacks in the form of attacks, for example. stone throwing or firing fireworks. My official work is looking at the level of penalties in cases where police or preparedness are attacked or their work is hindered, and if there is a need for tighter penalties, I will ensure that the legislation is amended to make it possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132218	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132220	I very much believe that there is a very, very great need for this. Now the Minister mentioned Christiania, and it is true that this was the case, if I may say so, in the old days. But there are many, many areas that have come to where the police cannot normally do their job, where they are ambushed, where they are harassed, and where they are certainly not driving into a patrol car with only two officers in, which is probably the most common. It doesn't work. The minister says that if not now I can't remember the choice of words... it goes as the minister would like, you have to tighten up the legislation; I think you have to get started on that. So, Vollsmose, Motalavej, Mjølnerparken, Ringparken, Gadehavegård, Tingbjerg, Bispeparken and last, but not least, Gellerup has exploded several days in a row. It is all heavy ghettos with immigrants with Middle Eastern backgrounds or North African descent that regularly create very, very serious problems in the neighbourhood, including for the police. There are car fires, container fires, stone throws against rescue workers, stone throws against indefensible, mostly female, sosu assistants, fireworks, bomb tubes, harassment, insecurity, violence, drug sales, etc. So I would certainly strongly recommend that the Minister come up with some legislative proposals that tighten the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132353	I also mentioned, for the sake of completeness, the particularly vulnerable residential areas, and not just Christiania. I therefore agree with the questioner that this is a problem. What the questioner did not say, but which I know or suppose the questioner agrees with me, is that, unfortunately, this is not a new picture. It is not a new picture; it is an image that we have seen repeated, for example. with fireworks up to and including New Year's Eve, with car burns and container burns, and there are
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132426	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132427	Well, then I'm just standing here thinking, "So what?" There's a need for us to be sharper on this. Yes, I certainly think there is a huge need for that. In other words, it is a behavior which not only poisons the lives and working conditions of those who have to do with it, but also the inhabitants of the area. So I simply miss the Minister saying: we put in a lot of numbers when something happens and not just a patrol car with two cops, because it just doesn't work. I wouldn't want to be a cop sitting in that patrol car with someone else next to me. There must be much stricter means for, and above all legislation to correct, the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132504	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132505	Well, I don't really disagree with that. After all, a year ago in April 2019, the police have drawn up a national strategy for action in the particularly vulnerable residential areas, which I assume the questioner is aware of, where the intention is precisely to strengthen police work to combat crime and to strengthen security in those areas, including a number of areas that have been mentioned, which provide guidance on how the police should work in the areas and which have a number of concrete tools, which I am sure the questioner is also aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132539	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132547	I think the Minister has actually mentioned this. Strategies have been made. You've had it all turned around. We've had it up, also with a former Justice Minister, Søren Pind, in his time, that there are some dominant groups in some of these parallel societies that just keep not listening to what the police say. So the question is, what do you do about it? I would like to hear from the Minister what has happened since the Minister became a minister. After all, we have had talks about a police agreement that we only thought would be in the autumn. Now it should be here before summer, but it looks like it doesn't happen. It has to be said that unfortunately there are examples of the street's parliament ruling and that it is the street's parliament in these ghettos, most recently in Gellerup, that controls things in one way or another. So I would like to hear the Minister: what has happened since the Minister stepped in and what does the government intend to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132650	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132651	Following on from the national strategy that was made in 2019, there are among other things. In addition, there is a need to ensure that criminals in the areas are identified in a strategic way and that criminals in the areas are able to establish more stringent penal zones. The focus has also been on increasing local police efforts to engage the local community in solving the challenges facing the area. Finally, the focus is on the fact that we have a visible and present police force, which is why we have increased the presence and visibility in these areas. Then, of course, there are some interventions that are more dependent on the specific situation, for example. presence of mobile police stations or other. So a large number of initiatives have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132743	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132743-2	Yes, it is true that there have been some strategies, but the impression you get when you follow the episodes that have been in these ghettos is that the police are doing a huge job of being out there and trying to contain it, but that is just not enough. We simply need more manpower. It is clear that we in the Danish People's Party are deeply concerned that time just goes on and on to get a police deal that allows us to get some more police officers trained, so there are enough staff to take action against these things. Will the Minister ensure that we get more police officers very quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132820	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132821	Well, the truth is that when I came into office as Minister a year ago, I had to say that the work done in strengthening the police was marked by a drop in the police's total funding by 2020 of up to 1 billion. kr., which had to be filled first. On top of that, we found that more officers were actually to be trained. As far as the police agreement itself is concerned, it is an understanding that has existed across the parties: if we could not negotiate face-to-face in the coronatid, we should postpone the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132853	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132857	I have to say that I think there are some that have been covered under the coronate. Now we have to move on. For our sake, the parliamentary assembly can be extended for another month, if that is what this is all about in order to get a proper police agreement in place. But I just have to ask the Minister: does the Minister sense that what I would call the image of glory that is sometimes drawn now and then I take Gjellerup, which is one of the moments. Worst areas are holding? Or should we actually say that it does not stand at all, and then say to some of the Red Support Parties, mainly the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left: this is not acceptable. We simply need to have you help tighten up. You're the ones who ruined it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132940	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617132941	Formulation such as that something is covered under the coronate may contain the misunderstanding in relation to some of the things that are being done, that one uses coronate as an excuse not to do what it takes. This is certainly not the case with the agreement to be made on the police and prosecutor's office. One of the elements on which we agreed, including the questioner's party, was that these negotiations should be held when you can physically be together. However, I take the questioner's comments as an indication that the Danish People's Party is ready to negotiate now and throughout the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133016	Then the question is over and we thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr Kjærsgaard. Peter Skaarup. The next question is to the Minister of Justice of Ulla Tørnæs, and the questioner is Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133031	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the government's policy is running away with the Commission's recommendation to open internal borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133039	Thank you for the question. The European Commission has regularly presented guidelines and recommendations to the Member States. In this context, the Commission has also, in the past, been proposing a gradual approach, as we have also been talking about. Now, with the latest recommendation, the Commission goes further and recommends that all restrictions at internal borders be lifted. Of course, we share the Commission's objective of reopening internal borders. For the government, however, it is crucial that we open up in a way so that the Danes can feel safe knowing that this is happening properly. We must do what we can to ensure that the infection does not suddenly flare up again. Therefore, the government will establish a model with objective criteria for when a country is safe enough for its citizens to visit Denmark. In other words, if the number of infected people in a country is at an acceptable level, we will open the borders of that country. One might say that we in Denmark are taking a slightly more cautious approach than what the Commission is proposing. However, I can also say that we are not alone in this approach. This is true, for example. Norway and Finland, too, which have a more cautious approach than the Commission has proposed, and a number of countries have chosen to exempt certain countries from free entry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133157	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133159	That is an amazing answer that the Minister is giving here today. Where would I have wanted me to have had that answer for how many weeks has it been since we first stood here? But in the wake of that, of course, there will be a new wave of questions, because what are the objective criteria to be laid down? That is, of course, the next question we will be asking. Are you going to be married to a Dane, which is one of the things we have also discussed? Do you have to be redhead? Do you need freckles? Do you need glasses? What is it from objective criteria that are laid down? Or is it perhaps the pressure of infection in that country that comes from that country that is crucial? It might be interesting to hear the Minister make an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133311	I would like to give the complete answer now. The truth is that we owe it to the Foreign Policy Name to give this information, and there is a meeting of the Board tomorrow, where the Board will have an account of what is being proposed. But that should not prevent me from lifting a little bit of the veil, and I can say that it has not been part of the government's thinking whether you are red-haired or have freckles or wearing glasses that the questioner put up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133344	Thank you. It's Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133346	Well, thank you for that, after all. So let us try to keep the seriousness a little bit. How glad I am that the government is now proposing that there should be new buns on the soup, if I may say so. For now we are also hearing that the foreign policy name will be consulted. After all, we in the Left have called for this to be done when border restrictions were introduced. So what's the new one here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133413	After all, there has been since the last meeting of the Foreign Policy Name a week ago, in which I took part, and where this matter of border openings, etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It explains that the way in which it has been carried out is in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133444	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133450	Thank you. I share Mrs Ulla Tørnæs' enthusiasm for the fact that the government was actually able to press for more sensible decisions. How good it is that tomorrow I can understand an announcement that you are now opening for exit and, I suppose, for entry. My question to the Minister is therefore whether there will be reciprocity in the opening up of the government? So, in other words, in relation to the countries that accept Danes, do we of course also welcome their citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133527	I understand the approach of saying that the government has succeeded in pushing it to make the changes that are there. I certainly do not want to ignore the efforts made by the questioner and the questioner over a long period of time, but I also have to say that there are a number of other factors which have affected the review that is now taking place and the further opening that we can, fortunately, make, first of all, the fact that the situation is developing around the world, and, of course, the fact that, as we have been in dialogue on a number of occasions, we will have to deal with how the rest of the world views what surrounds us. The complete reciprocite, that is to say, that exactly the same thing should apply, is one of the elements that we will be discussing tomorrow in the foreign policy issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133622	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133623	Nor was it because I was so megalomaniac and thought only of the efforts made by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and myself in this Chamber. I was just thinking about the debate that has been going on in public, about the complete lack of sense and logic in the decisions taken by the government along the way. And we have also discovered along the way that it has certainly not always been based on the professional judgement of the authorities, but that it has been purely a political decision on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133659	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133700	At any rate, it is right to keep the good feeling that there is a part of the decisions that is political. That is one of the things we are here for, in other words, to make political decisions. That is also true, and I think there is reason to recognise that the government is not, of course, an island that is independent of what is being said about us and the debates that are taking place and the issues that are being raised. That is why, of course, we must also ensure that what we are doing is in line with the reality in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133733	Thank you. That's the last question. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133735	It is possible that my inattentiveness is the reason why I did not quite catch whether the Minister simply recognizes on behalf of the government that the border regime that was introduced when the border was closed should have been consulted on the subject of foreign policy. The Minister mentioned that a response had been prepared but did not say what the response had arrived at. However, I should just like to say a few words of thanks if the Minister here acknowledges that, in this way, a mistake has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133812	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133813	Well, the government doesn't. Ulla Tørnæs Pr. definition? ) No, governments do not do that per year. definition. They don't make mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133845	We thank Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen for the time being. We move on to the next question, which is still gone to the Minister for Justice, but now it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133852	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133855	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on opening the border to Dutch people, so that holiday resorts such as the Skærbæk Centre, which is dependent on Dutch tourists, can get the activity going again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617133908	Thank you for the question. It is my view that we should do so as soon as we consider that it will be justifiable and we can be confident about it. The Government has no desire to maintain the current entry restrictions longer than is necessary. We have already opened the door to tourists, as the questioner knows, from Germany, from Norway and Iceland, and we are working to find a model that will enable us to open our borders again to the other European countries. But we must do it in a way that does not jeopardise what we have achieved in terms of health, and that is why we are setting objective criteria for when a country is safe enough for its citizens to be able to visit Denmark. In other words, if the number of infected people in a country is at an acceptable level, then it is our intention to open the borders of that country. It is going the right way in Denmark, and it should continue to do so. That is why it is also important that we continue to be able to insist that we proceed in a controlled manner so that we do not lose out on the great effort that has been made by the Danes and so that we do not lose out on what we have achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134014	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134015	Thank you. After all, I was able to hear that my colleagues who were on this before me received some answers, and I would also like to welcome the fact that we will then be able to look forward to something more tomorrow, so that even more countries and hopefully all countries in Europe will be opened up and, at least, what the European Union may recommend. When I just addressed the Dutch, it was also because the very way they have handled the Corona situation, as well as fortunately in Denmark, has not made so many people sick. Could the Minister comment a little more on the criteria? The minister says so in the answer • the health professional basis for the objective criteria that are likely to be applied, namely in relation to the pressure of infection or the number of people who have become ill, or what are the things you are looking at when you have to find these criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134123	One of the targets used in other European countries is to say how many infected people we have per. 100,000 inhabitants. Sometimes the impression is left that all German states have been opened up and that everyone from all countries can enter. In fact, however, the German Länder can make use of two weeks of quarantine in relation to people travelling from countries with a level of infection of more than 50 per annum. 100,000 people. If they enter, quarantine may be granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134157	Mrs. Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134158	Thank you. I assume that we can agree that the very thing about opening the borders is one of the things that means a great deal to a great many people, people, such as myself. have foreign girlfriends, but of course also people who have businesses and who are deeply, deeply dependent that tourists can also enter the country. I have a question that may just be answered with either yes or no. Does the Minister agree that border opening is far too important to politicize, but that it needs to be done on a professional basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134234	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134235	So, let me not start by addressing the issues of lovers and saying that this is a different situation and a different regulation than that of tourists. And there is indeed now the possibility that boyfriends can come to Denmark because we have revised the rules on that point and have had the opportunity to make that opening. On the other hand, I also believe that the author's party agrees that borders cannot be fully opened on the present and present basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134307	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134309	Thank you. But can we go so far as to look at those countries, because there are actually countries that have also done better than Denmark? Should a flag already be raised in relation to saying that if they have done better, can the people of those countries enter Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134328-2	We could have that thought, and without saying what is going to happen, it would have the problem built into that some countries would have done well, but worse than Denmark, which would be cut off from it. Whether you would have the situation that if Denmark did even better, some countries would be cut off from it, and you would have the situation that if it went back in Denmark, we would open up even more to go in. It would be in danger of creating new chains of infection. So that is a thought that one might have, but I also believe that the questioner will agree with me that this is not a way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134400	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We continue with the Minister of Justice, but now it is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, and the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134409	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134412	Thank you. What is the Minister's justification for not opening all border crossings between Denmark and Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134418	Eva Kjer Hansen There is again trouble with the papers). No, there's no trouble with the papers. President There are also many questions, so there are many papers. Here you go, Minister). Yes, I will have to have the new paper forward, but I can promise the questioner that I will give my answer within the time available, and I can see that I have 1 minute and 42 seconds left, so thank you for the question. The fact that the police have closed the border posts is simply due to the fact that it has been necessary for the police to be able to control those who enter. Now we are a place where you can start opening up again, and on Monday we opened up, among other things. for tourists from Germany, but we still have to be able to keep an eye on who is entering. All restrictions on entry have not been lifted. We are still in the process of reopening. The fact that tourists from Germany have now been opened up can give rise to some traffical challenges, and Danish travel to Germany is no longer discouraged. I know the police are aware of that. That is why the police have also opened two further daily border crossings, Padborg and Pebersmark. At the same time, when necessary for the sake of traffic flow and this is important, the police will be able to switch to border checks. This will help to address at least some of the challenges posed by the closure of border crossings and border controls to road users. Of course, I share the honourable Member's wish that we can soon reopen all border crossings, but basically it is about how many we still have to control away and what can actually be done as long as we have entry restrictions which we in the government believe we should monitor compliance with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134559	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134600	You would think that if you opened all 13 border crossings, there would be much better chance of controlling and phasing out the cross-border traffic. So is it just a question of the Minister of Justice not willing to allocate the resources necessary to open border crossings? And how does it correspond to the fact that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice would like to talk about normalisation in the border country when we do not want to open border crossings? It is precisely there that the ordinary movement of the locals is really important. And right now there are five border crossings that have been opened, but there are eight that are closed. It is therefore simply a question of the Minister of Justice not wanting to allocate the resources needed to open up the last eight transitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134649	No, it's not. In general, I think it has to be said that the management of the Corona situation has not, above all, encountered restrictions in terms of limited resources, and significant police resources have been allocated to the border. If we open up completely, it is true, as the questioner says, that it will be easier to dismantle traffic. On the other hand, it is not true when the questioner says that it will provide better control. If we opened the borders completely, we would lose the opportunity to carry out controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134721	Ask, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134722	I simply do not understand that. It is surely a question of having the staff at the 13 border crossings so that we can carry out the checks that we think are necessary. What I am asking is the Minister's reason for not opening all the border crossings, since the desire to meet the desire of the local population to move freely across the border is so great that it is politically right, very important that it should be possible to do so in respect for the people of the border country. So Minister, what is the concrete justification if it is not resources for control?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134759	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134800	It must also be the case that if you do not want to fully open up all traffic into Denmark, you have to carry out some kind of control. Otherwise, there would be the full opening and, as I understand it, it is also the opinion of the author of the question that we should not open up completely and thus give up the possibility of border controls at the border with Germany, at the border with Sweden and, of course, also on entry via the airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134832	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134834	Thank you. I too find it difficult to see that the reason for this may be anything other than financial resources that the government does not want to allocate to the area. But before we heard that the government will announce tomorrow that it wants to open the border further, and thank you for that, but that it will be based on objective criteria. In the tail of these objective criteria and a renewed approach to the border issue and the opening of the border, does the Minister propose to open further border crossings in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134915	We are constantly working on how to ensure that the dismantling of traffic, while respecting entry restrictions, can take place as appropriately as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134929	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134930	So that was a yes, or...?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134937	As I heard the question, the question was whether I was going to report on this exactly tomorrow. And that's not what I said. I said that the government is constantly considering how we can organise this as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134949	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617134951	Now that the Minister's reasons for not opening up at the last eight border posts are checked and there you have to understand that it is a question of allocating resources for checks that could then take place when will the Minister open the border crossings? When can we expect in the local area to be allowed to travel normally, as we do in the border country, because the government is talking so hot about wanting to normalize? So when does the Minister give the necessary appropriations to check the last border crossings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135029	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135030	This is not just a resource issue. It is also, as I said in my initial answer, a question of how to organise the checks. So this is because we have already gone from having complete control to saying that we can now confine ourselves to spot checks, which, as they say, provides an incredibly great relief in terms of winding up traffic, because in times where there is great pressure, we can say that, instead of controlling all cars, all travellers, using the police nose, as they say, we can control those who are considered to be relevant to control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135103	Thank you. The question is over, so we thank Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen once again for the time being. The next question remains for the Minister of Justice, but now it's Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135112	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135115	Is it reasonable for the Minister to visit his girlfriend in Denmark if he is Italian, but not if he is Canadian, and when does the Minister intend to put all couples on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135132	I have the fundamental desire to be able to visit friends and family again and, of course, also boyfriends as before the corona crisis, and I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that border restrictions have affected a great many girlfriends. This applies in general to this crisis, which has hit very, very many people hard. Fortunately, we are now in the process of reopening, and I do not think anyone is surprised at this when I would like to stress the importance of continuing to move forward gradually. In Denmark we have chosen to focus on our neighbouring countries first, then Europe and then the rest of the world. I think this is a perfectly natural way of doing so, and, by the way, when I think about it, it is the same approach that the European Union, with its recommendation, goes to: open internal borders. After that, the European Union begins to look at the external countries, the countries in the vicinity of the European Union, and then look further into the world. I would like to stress that we have no intention whatsoever of maintaining restrictions longer than is strictly necessary, and I am of the opinion that we will soon be able to open the borders to boyfriends living in third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135240	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135241	Life can offer many challenges and many battles, but I do not think it should be a struggle to see the one person with whom you put the highest value, the person with whom you have chosen to be in marriage or relationships. And now it's the third month that these border rules keep couples apart. I am glad that the government and also the Minister for Justice have relaxed these rules several times once it has come up in this Chamber and in the media. But the more you relax for some, the harder it becomes to explain the rest of the rules, because now you can see each other across all borders if you are married, but if you have not yet married, then you cannot. And I think we can agree that corona probably doesn't infect more among couples than among married couples; then all we had to do was get married, and then we'd have solved it with corona pretty quickly, that is, if it was marriage that was the vaccine. So coronaically, it doesn't make much sense, either, because some of the couples I write with can now see that they may meet in Iceland and then get married there, and they may well get into Denmark. This applies, among other things, to: a man named Asger, who is expecting a child with a Brazilian woman; they have found that now they can meet in Iceland and get married there, and then she can enter Denmark. That's why I'm glad the minister says he's gonna open up to girlfriend and girlfriends from all over the world soon. And then, of course, I'm interested in asking a follow-up question about what this soon means, because I think you can define that differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135434	First of all, I agree with the questioner that there are no studies suggesting that marriage is an effective cure for corona. It can be an effective cure for so much else, but not for corona. It is true, as far as the examples which the questioner has brought to my attention are concerned, that these are examples where they say: it is unreasonable that the boyfriend who lives in Canada or where it may be cannot get over. In some situations, it is even a pregnant spouse, girlfriend, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135510	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135511	I am glad that the Minister can see that this is unreasonable. And that is certainly the first step to change it. Then the Minister did not reply to the definition of the word soon, so the Minister may be allowed to reply to this in the third round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135527	I do not know how to define the word soon, but one can also say that it will happen without undue delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135536	Then the final question to Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135538	Then I would like to say that I hope that the government will come along with the EU countries to open up to countries outside the EU. I think it is 1 July that we are talking about in the EU, so that the countries can come to see their boyfriend again from there. Then people can spend the summer together, and I think that would be fair. So I would like to ask the Minister if he will give the promise that from 1 July it will be allowed for all couples to see each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135608	I think the 1st of July sounds like a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135618	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We continue with questions to the Minister for Justice, but now it is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and co-questioner is Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135626	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135629	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the clearly divided and racist announcement that came from the spokesperson of Black Lives Matter Denmark, Bwalya Sørensen, during a demonstration in Copenhagen on 7 June 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135645	As far as I know, Black Lives Matter's spokesperson has been reported for racism and illegal collection after the demonstration. That report will be processed by the police, and I have no details of the case. From a personal perspective, however, I cannot agree with the approach to combating racism, for which, according to the media, the spokesperson of Black Lives Matter Denmark has been exponent. I believe that the fight for equality and equality and the fight against racism are best fought by uniting and unifying not by creating new divisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135729	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135730	Thank you. Now I cannot help mentioning yesterday's information that there is at least one infected in that huge demonstration; so I think there are many hanging parties in relation to it. What annoys me is that the Minister has not reported out clearly, because I think there have been so many questions. What's been going on has been so unspeakable. So there has been a lack of a clear attitude on the part of the government. Is it even legal to ask people to divide by skin color? It's done. Why has it not been responded to? Can the Minister imagine the reverse, i.e. that a white Dane did the same and said that whites should be at the front, and that all blacks should be at the back, or that an ethnic white Dane said: White Danes in front, and Arabs with Muslim background should be at the back? I can hardly stand to say this, because I simply think that it is so cross-border that we can get the ideas and therefore also act as has happened. It's completely unheard of. And the rest of us have wondered, at least to the highest degree, that these statements have been made. But I do not really think we have heard anything from the Minister. It is a good thing that the Minister can now say something. But if it had been said that all white Danes are welcome, dark and Muslims are unwelcome and must leave the demonstration, how would the Minister have reacted? Then the Minister and the Red Support Parties had said, and indeed the rest of us also said: that just cannot be right. But there is no position on this, and I think that is deeply reprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135901	Let me start by addressing one of the elements that was mentioned, namely the fact that a covid-19 infection has been detected in the demonstration. The Minister for Health and the Elderly has been out to encourage the participants to be tested. One might then ask the question: why is it that such a demonstration can be allowed when we have an assembly ban? But it is precisely the values on which our society stands, that is, the constitutional right to gather and express itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135934	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617135935	Yeah, and then I miss answers to everything else. The Minister clearly took advantage of the fact that I just made that remark. But does the Minister think that there is a fear of touch, precisely because this spokesperson, as we have mentioned here, is black and thus apparently able to get away with these racist statements? Now I know that the minister should not say again that there has been some kind of complaint, but it has certainly been done without anything. I think it is clearly reprehensible that there has been no announcement from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140010	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140011	No, I don't experience any fear of touch.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140016	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140017	It may well be that there is no direct fear of touch, but I think it is a pity that this is not being used to address a very important issue, because it is a very important debate on values, which is going on in our society all the time. We in the Danish People's Party have experienced being called racists completely groundless, because if there is something we don't care about, then it's what skin color people have, but we care very much about what culture they have, and we care very much about Danish freedom. For some reason, some have claimed that we should be racists against this background, and that is of course absolutely wrong, but if we then have obvious racism in the central place of Copenhagen, where people are treated in a certain way solely on the basis of their skin color, then no one really notices it, no one is shouting, and no government is coming and has any opinions on it. I think that's really too bad. One misses a chance to take this very important debate and say that Denmark is a free country where we do not have room for this sort of thing. That is why I would like to repeat Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's question: is it really permissible to hold a racist demonstration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140134	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140136	Now that the questioner indicates that there is an important value-political debate underneath this, which I agree with, I think it is also about a different value-based approach which I believe has strengthened our society in recent years, namely the question of identity policy, that is to say that we only have a community with those with whom we share identity, for example. about what color you are or what sex you are. It has permeated parts of the political debate here at home, and I think that we should stick to the humanist path, that is, keep the focus on the person, the man behind the facade, the person who has his own thoughts, his own feelings, etc. That is why I think this is a good opportunity to have a discussion on the identity policy that has been brought forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140239	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140240	I fully agree with that, and therefore I am also surprised that the Minister has not gone into that debate earlier, but must be forced to do so here on the floor of the Parliamentary Assembly. Because the debate on identity policy affects precisely all these difficult issues, and § 266b has exactly exactly a lot to do with it, and it is constantly being used against Islam criticism, which cannot in any way be called racism or should fall under § 266b, but it should really be racism. That is why I would like to ask once again the question to which we have not yet received a clear answer: is it possible to hold a racist demonstration with racist expressions and racist organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140321	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140322	But here I would just like to quote § 266b: "Whoever makes public or deliberate proclamations in a wider circle or other announcements in which a group of persons is threatened, insulted or humiliated because of its race, skin color, national or ethnic origin, belief or sexual orientation is punished by fines or imprisonment up to 2 years. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140346	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140354	I just have to ask the Minister this at the end of the debate whether, in relation to everything that has happened and that has been so blatantly racist, there has been a lack of that very heated and highly excited debate, where, as Mrs Krarup says, if one of us has gone against immigration in this society and will continue to do so, there is a very quick debate. In the past, it was indeed the Social Democracy, and now the Social Democracy has changed, but still large parts of the Social Democratic support parties continue that debate against us. But here you hear nothing at all, no distance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140433	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140434	I didn't hear a question. Therefore, I would just like to repeat that, whether it comes from the extreme right or the extreme left or from Islamists or from anyone else, I think that we are best at fighting for equality, the fight for equality and the fight against racism by uniting and by uniting and not by separating.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140500	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mrs Marie Krarup. We continue with the Minister of Justice, and now the question is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and the questioner is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140511	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140512	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the Commission's recommendation for opening internal borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140526	Thank you for the question. Oddly enough, all my answers are preceded by that, and it is fair to thank you for that. In its latest communication, the Commission calls for the internal borders to be opened before 15 June. I think anyone can see that we in the government think is just as fast. In the past, the Commission has recommended a gradual approach to reopening the borders, which illustrates, moreover, some of what we have had the opportunity to talk about sometimes, that is, how developments move and how, of course, we have to organise what we do according to the situation in which we find ourselves. Fortunately, for a long time we have had a positive development in Denmark, and this has led to the fact that we have been able to open the country and the borders to a greater and greater extent, which is pleasing, and it should continue to do so. That is why it is also important for the opening of borders to take place gradually. We must do what we can to prevent the epidemic from flare up. Having said that, the government naturally shares the Commission's objective of opening up to internal borders soon. That is why we are also working on a model with objective criteria for when a country is safe enough for its citizens to visit Denmark. Basically, it is a system in which the number of new infected people in a country is governing whether we can open the borders of that country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140645	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140646	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister has stressed here that the government shares the Commission's objective that we should return as soon as possible to normal relations with the Schengen acquis and freedom of movement. But now the Minister again mentioned what we are all waiting for tomorrow, namely this with objective criteria for how and for whom the Danish Government will open the border. That is why I have to ask whether this is one of the recommendations that the Commission has made, in other words that is the way to achieve the common objective that we all share.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140735	The Commission's recommendation, at least as far as internal frontiers are concerned, is that internal frontiers should be abolished, and the Commission is a little more hesitant when it comes to the borders vis-à-vis third countries. As I see the Commission's announcement, it is a lifting of internal borders, and then an assessment of the immediate neighbouring countries of the European Union as those that are first opened up and then for the rest of the world. It is, in fact, a bit the same model that we have been through: first to open to Norway, Iceland and Germany, and now, hopefully, we can move further out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140813	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140814	So operating with objective criteria is not part of the Commission's recommendations on internal borders, nor is it part of the external borders? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140826	I do not actually have the recommendations, so I have to follow that up and answer whether it is included in some way or not. However, the basic idea of the Commission is to ensure the lifting of internal borders and then to look at the lifting of external borders to some extent, with a focus on the immediate area. It is not the view that the Commission is saying that the internal borders must be opened first and then fully to the whole world, but that this must be taken step by step.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140855	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140857	Thank you. Will the government choose criteria other than those used, for example? are elected in neighbouring countries or which may be included in the Commission's recommendations? Or what are the criteria which the Minister believes should be applied? And could you imagine that they are different than, for example. the criteria chosen by Germany in relation to their strategy of openness towards the citizens of other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617140924-2	A little different criteria have been chosen around. The Norwegians choose a diversity of criteria, while Lithuania looks at the number of infected per year. 100,000 inhabitants. If you're going to find a criterion that goes back, it's probably how many infected there are per. 100,000 inhabitants. There is so little difference between where you put the level and how often you measure it. As I am told, Lithuania has a level of 25 infected per year. 100,000 inhabitants. After all, Germany has removed it at federal level, but it has said that the individual German Länder can set up rules which restrict entry from areas where there is an infection which is more than 50 per person. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. will not allow Swedes to enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141023	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141024	But the Minister is talking about objective criteria. So the Minister can already assure us here today that, in addition to the objective criteria that may now be chosen, there will not be further political criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141039	No, the aim is to find a system based on objective criteria. But you must always be careful to lock yourself in a system where you can risk getting an inappropriate livelihood.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141055	Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141058	So we are actually back to the first question I asked: is it glasses, is it freckles, is it red hair, is it brown hair, is it blue eyes, or what are the objective criteria that the government is aiming for? Summa summarum: Unfortunately, we have not made much progress. It will continue to be the political guts of the government that will decide who will be allowed to come to Denmark, and nothing else. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141129-2	No, I can say it's not. When we talk about objective criteria, we are talking about finding criteria that we can keep an eye on, that we can monitor and that can walk again. And it is clear, as I have also indicated in some of my answers earlier, that the direction in which we are looking is, of course, what the pressure of infection in different countries and different areas is, so that we can look at the possibility of going back and forth between those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141154	I can see that we reach the last question because of great discipline, partly on the part of the Minister. So we move on again to the Minister of Justice, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, and the co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141204	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141205	Thank you. How can the Minister talk about a normalisation of the situation in the border country when he does not even want to open all the border crossings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141214	I can't believe I was of the opinion that we hadn't finished with the last question, but now I'm gonna get the note right away on this question. Eva Kjer Hansen Ministeren must have such a briefcase orderer) I am simply offered help in my practical handling of my work not only for my political handling, but also for my practical handling. Thank you for the question. In the border country between Denmark and Germany you have a special and unique community both culturally and historically. And I understand very well that the restrictions imposed on entry have had a particular impact on citizens on both sides of the border. I am also pleased that we have been able, in particular, to reach out to the residents of the border country and say that they can enter without further restrictions. I hope that the questioner recognises this as a significant normalisation of the situation. I understand that it matters if you can cross the border without going out on a detour. However, once border crossings have been closed, it is simply due to the fact that this has been necessary in order for the police to be able to control cross-border traffic. As we opened up on Monday, the police have opened two additional daily border crossings, which we also talked about before, so that there are now five border crossings open and this has also helped to ease the pressure on the other border crossings and help to normalise the situation in the border country. The government's aim is, of course, to have the situation fully normalised in the border country and, of course, to open all border crossings. But we are in a situation where the infection is not under control in the world, and that is why we in the government still believe that gradual and controlled reopening is sensible and that we need to control cross-border traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141405	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141406	I have to say to the Minister that I am not going to recognise the government's efforts for residents of the border country. I think it is highly questionable that from the outset people were not allowed to cross the border to visit grandparents, that boyfriends could see each other, and that they could maintain some of the things they used to do in the border country at all. And I think the government has shown a very great lack of knowledge and respect for the conditions that apply in the border country. And I think that we are really continuing to do so when we make a normalisation in the area, while keeping eight border crossings closed; these are the smaller border crossings. They are the ones that mean a great deal in relation to normalisation for the residents. And yet the Minister insists that so much has been done by opening the five border crossings, but not even half has been opened today. Now the Minister prided himself on an earlier question of the fact that random checks had now been carried out, and this freed up some resources. So my question to the Minister must be: what are we talking about in terms of resources if the remaining eight border crossings are to be opened with a random check?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141525	In fact, I think that if we were to ask this question in the South Jutland area, we would have the impression that the opening that has taken place has been taken quite well. The borders were closed; not only did ours, but so did the Germans. Then we have moved to a place where we have got the infection under control, after which we have been able to say: then we can just as quietly start opening the borders again. The area that has been opened without restrictions is, after all, exactly the border area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141606	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141607	It's just too bad the Justice Minister won't answer the questions. As recently as Monday, the Prime Minister was in the area and received the very message home that one misses opening the last eight border crossings, because that is what matters to the residents of the area and to the fact that one can talk about normalisation. But at the very least, after the lack of answers today, we have to note that it is only about resources that the Minister of Justice is not prepared to find. Because if the political will was there, you could.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141642	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141643	I think that is simply a simplistic way of looking at it. In other words, I think that one of the most crucial factors in how easy it can be to complete such a journey back and forth across borders is also how control of the border is carried out. And that means going from control of everyone to spot checks in fact very much to facilitate flexibility in cross-border traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141711	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141712	Yes, well, it is a little sad, I think we should now have a finale on that basis, because I am here with a ritzautelegram, and there the Prime Minister says quite frankly: "Now it is a question of getting all border openings with us. It's to be perfectly honest... a resource issue. So it cannot be said more clearly that it is a matter of resources whether or not to give priority to normalisation in the border country. And you have to understand that, among other things. The Prime Minister's statement to Ritzau on Monday that the government is not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141759	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141800	But my point is that it is not only a question of resources; it is therefore very much a question of whether we can switch to random checks which have now been opened up. And I must also maintain that if we do not think that our borders should be open to everyone to move freely across the country, and the government does not think so, and the author's party does not think so, then there should be control at our borders, not just the border in South Jutland, but also the airport or border with Sweden, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141835	However, whether we are talking about spot checks or we are talking about border controls as such, opening up the remaining border crossings will have some cost. And, as I understand the Prime Minister's statement to Ritzau on Monday, this is a cost that the government is not prepared to bear here and now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141900	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141901	But the intention is, of course, that we should be able to facilitate border controls at all border crossings. I just have to say that there are also some additional elements that go along with this, not just the random checks, but also the need that we have when we open up to supplement it, for example. tests for tracing compared to those entering. The other day we may have said so much the other day, but I think it was 6 June that we saw a plane from Pakistan that came home, where there were six infected people and where resources will have to be spent on the fact that there is an effective detection of exactly them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141940	Then it is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617141940-2	Well, the plane from Pakistan thinks I was in Copenhagen. What we are discussing right now is border crossings between Denmark and Germany. And what I simply do not understand is how normal border controls can take place during all 13 transitions in normal times, i.e. when we do not have coronatide, but now that you have to do a check, among other things. Because there are restrictions on entry, it cannot be done at eight border crossings because the Minister does not want to allocate the resources needed and obviously believes that there are some practical problems with it. Can the Minister clarify: what are the practical problems with the eight missing border crossings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142028	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142028-2	But as the questioner knows, better than I did was the experience before this, that there were border crossings where there was no control, that is, where there was not always control, but where there was a random check, but where there were also periods where you could cross the border completely unobstructed. And I guess that's normalization. That is why the answer is not enough, if you just say that we will do full control at all border crossings, because then we will have nothing left to do with what was the normal situation before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142100	Thank you. And I can tell you that there were still four seconds left of the hour allotted I would like to thank Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and the Minister for Justice. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142112	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142114	Thank you for that, President. What will the Minister do to ensure better conditions for drug addicts who cannot receive the help offered by the abuse centres due to lack of space during the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142131	It is not quite clear in the question what exactly is meant by the lack of places during the corona crisis. So allow me to ask whether the questioner refers to the fact that people with drug abuse have not had access to treatment in the country's abuse centres because of increased capacity pressure, that is, whether that is what the issue is about. In that case, I would like to make it clear that the social area has been maintained as a critical function during the Corona crisis. Thus, throughout the crisis, municipalities have had to maintain ongoing abuse treatment and search new citizens for treatment. However, it has been possible to derogate from the 14-day treatment guarantee if certain conditions were met. In a joint letter to all the municipalities and regions of the country, the Minister for Health and I stressed on 31 March that abuse treatment was precisely one of the critical functions and that special attention was needed to offer the most vulnerable treatment for abuse. At the same time, we have in the agreement we reached on 25 April with, among other things. The author's party, allocated funds for an out-of-court action in the area of abuse. I and my ministry have regularly had close dialogue with actors in the field and encouraged them to share the challenges they are experiencing. Among other things: We examined the status of the heroin clinics as there was concern that they kept closed, which turned out not to be the case and good for it. I have also regularly informed the rapporteur that the rapporteurs were invited to share specific issues with us so that we could act quickly on them. In this context, I have not come across the fact that the abuse centres have not offered the necessary treatment because of capacity pressure; on the contrary, the announcement by the National Association of Municipalities has been that the municipalities have not experienced any difficulty in complying with the treatment guarantee. This is also apparent from a note on the treatment of abuse under the covid-19, which was sent to the rapporteurs in the context of the negotiations on the agreement for initiatives for vulnerable and vulnerable groups. It is clear that the abuse centres have not been able to offer assistance under normal conditions because they have to comply with the guidelines of the Danish Health Authority, including distance requirements etc.; e.g. it has been necessary to consider whether physical attendance could be reduced, for example by providing medication for longer periods of time or conducting conversations by telephone or via web-based solutions. The Danish Health Service issued early, as early as 18 March, a guide to drug centers on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142336	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142337	Thank you. Then I can lift the veil a little more to the Minister as to why I would like to put this question in the Chamber today. It is actually the case that you have some challenges in Esbjerg, where you hand methadone over to a great many, yes, hundreds of drug addicts, and this has actually presented some challenges. It is the case that drug addicts get it delivered through a small hatch at the abuse center in Esbjerg, and here addicts meet up almost 600 times a week, and the challenge then arises, especially because the neighbors to the abuse center simply feel very bothered by the noise coming. That is actually what I would like to ask, i.e. whether the Minister can somehow try to deal with it, in other words do something to help the neighbours here as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142438	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142439	Okay, so I'm not actually gonna be so sad that I couldn't figure out that this was about the neighbors of a specific municipal drug center in West Jutland, Esbjerg. One might say that the question revolves around what we can do to ensure better conditions for drug addicts who cannot get help, and there I just want to say that there is some of what has been absolutely crucial to me throughout the Corona crisis and that the Danish Health Authority has been concerned about. On 31 March, the Minister for Health and I sent a letter to all the mayors and presidents of the regional councils of the country, stressing the importance of maintaining substitution treatment. But I understand that the questioner's question is in fact pointing a little the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142519	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142520	Yes, it does, but of course it also points a little towards the fact that we all know very well that when we get through this and are on the other side, you can also risk some of these abusers who, in some way during the crisis here, have fallen behind, you can say, and where there will be a pick-up task. I would also like the Minister to say a few more words on that, so how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142548	There, I think, the questioner is at the heart of something, and that is one of the things that concerns me incredibly, because there is no doubt that we will see that. We can see that fewer people have been enrolled in the treatment of abuse. We hear that from KL and that is among other things. This is why there are no problems with compliance with the treatment guarantee, because there are simply fewer new entries. It tells me that there must also be a fear that some people out there may have fallen back into old abuses that were otherwise well-treated. So for me this is one of the major issues we need to be aware of, and that is also one of the reasons why I think it was sensible for us to set aside funds for cooperation with drug centres to improve access to treatment for drug addicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142624	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142625	Now we had a meeting this morning with the various partnerships. There we were not about this part, but is this something on which the Minister has also received some feedback from the various industries involved in the abuse area? Has there been any input on how to solve the particular relapse that has probably happened to some of these addicts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142653	This is a complex issue. I myself, together with the Social Affairs Council, held a thematic meeting precisely on self-isolation and the consequences it may have for those whose problems have deteriorated or who were actually in good shape, but for example. has fallen back into old abuse. I am also looking at what we can take of further initiatives and what has actually come out of the quite large aid package that we, together in the Folketing, deposed, where among other things. was also a focus on the area of abuse, and what some organisations can do entirely hand-held in cooperation with the drug centers to provide more of what we have seen during the covid-19, namely outgoing treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142729	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The question is over. We continue with questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, but now it is by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142735	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142736	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the economic motivation to maintain citizens in offers in their own municipality rather than to choose offers in other municipalities is greatly increased by using the population of the municipality of residence instead of the population of the municipality of payment in connection with the municipal compensations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142758	With the compensatory reform, a population after payment municipalities will no longer be used in the system of subsidies and compensation. The Financial Committee has identified a problem with the quality and impact of the information, which is based on reports from municipalities for direct use in the system. It may in itself be important to switch to basing the system solely on residential population figures and to have an effect in the equalisation system when a citizen moves to an offer in another municipality. However, the compensation reform does not change decisively what a municipality loses on a citizen moving to another municipality. The figures that have been made public are therefore not a consequence of the reform. If there is a problem, that problem already exists in the current system, and that is why we need more thorough analysis to identify the extent of the problem and bring in all relevant aspects. This work will be speeded up by the government as part of the planned evaluation of the specialized social area. If it turns out that there is a problem, it has to be resolved, because the compensation must not, of course, stand in the way of citizens getting the right offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617142904	Thank you for your answer. I can see that the Minister has also said in other contexts that compensation must not stand in the way of the citizen being offered the right offer and that, when the number of payments is abolished, there are no decisive incentives to do so. When I look at my own municipality, Assens on Funen, and see that there we have a difference in payment municipalities and municipality numbers of 60 people, that corresponds in round figures to 3 million. kr. a year; this is approx. 50,000 kroner. per Citizen. It may not sound like much in here when we talk about millions and billions to be distributed in one way or another, but when you have a local budget in a municipality, it is actually something that matters. And it does matter that we now have to consider, as far as we are concerned, that in Assens we have 60 citizens coming in from outside, where other municipalities are paying for them to be in our offer, and we are getting some money for that, but we are immediately beginning to wonder whether the municipalities that have placed them will start to see whether they can find some own offers that they can argue for are just as good. And at the same time we will also be looking at the citizens we send to other municipalities, i.e. if you could now find some offers yourself, so that we could just get the 50,000 kr., because 50,000 kr. In fact, in this context, a lot of money is especially important when it becomes 10, 20, 30, 50 citizens. Because all of a sudden it's actually millions of people it's all about. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to confirm that this changes the economic incentive. There will be an economy in considering whether you can keep the citizens at home in the municipality instead of placing them in the right offer. For that is what I find both the Minister and we agree with, that is to say, that it is about getting an incentive that makes it actually find the best offers for the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143059	After all, it is a long-standing discussion that we do not want a despecialisation of the social area and that we do not want economic incentives to ensure that citizens do not get the right offer for them. After all, we have been discussing this for many years, and it is a problem and a problem that the government is deeply concerned about, and that is why we are also going to look at it when we have to evaluate the entire specialized social area. That it then turns out that there may be a problem in the existing equalisation system already, because most of the socio-economic criteria are based on residential population figures, seems to me to be a good reason for us to analyse it and include it in the overall analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143139	Well, it's always great to do an analysis and see if we can do things better. When you are aware that there is a challenge in the system we have, you must of course also look at it. But what I really ask the Minister is: why are we doing something about now, which quite factually means that where you are receiving a grant as a municipality of payment today, that subsidy is now being transferred to the municipality of residence? This means that the municipality which pays for a stay loses some money, which it can then only regain by moving the citizen home to offer in its own municipality. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143215	I know that the questioner was also not physically, as far as I remember, but digitally present when we had a technical review of this bill, where the Ministry had produced some math examples, which showed with concrete examples what it meant for a specific municipality with a specific citizen. And this is complex because there are so many different criteria, and because there are so many things that affect how something goes through in our equalisation system. That is why we need a thorough analysis. Because I very much agree with the questioner that it should not be financial incentives that are pulling at a disadvantage in relation to whether citizens receive the help they need. It should not at all be so that we intend to carry out an analysis of this by the government and, of course, it should not be done in our compensation system, which is why it is quite natural to take that analysis with us and then find a solution to the problem that may exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143303	Well, analysis is excellent, and let's just work towards better solutions. But can I not get the Minister to confirm that with the change that is coming, an amount is actually transferred from the municipality of payment to the municipality of residence, thereby providing an incentive for the municipality to keep its citizens at home on their own offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143326	In other words, as I said just now, if there is a problem, it is not a new problem. The vast majority of the socio-economic equalization criteria today are not calculated in the municipality of payment but in the municipality of residence. But I do agree with the questioner that this is where we need to find out more thoroughly: whether there is a problem and whether it has a scope where it can mean something for the municipalities to offer the citizens the right offer. By the way, they are not allowed to do so under the law, but if they do, we must resolve it. I hope so, and I sense the rapporteur will also be concerned about that. But we need to get a good and thorough look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143359	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next question, paragraph 13, to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, will be answered at the request of the author. So the next question we are going to now is to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and this is asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 1427.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143426	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143428	Thank you. Is it the Minister's view that older people should have the same freedoms as everyone else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143437	The purpose of the visit restrictions is to protect the particularly vulnerable groups, including elderly people in nursing homes, from an infection which can, of course, have fatal consequences. We know that the restrictions have also had human costs, unfortunately, for both the citizens concerned and their relatives, and we know that the deprivation has been great for many. We also know that more than a third of all deaths with covid-19 have been found among nursing home residents, and the current case from Hjørring Municipality unfortunately also shows how fast it can be if an infection enters a nursing home. Following the political agreement of 20 May 2020, further visits were opened last week, among others. nursing home. This has been done according to a model drawn up with input from the sectoral partnership for the reopening of the care sector and stakeholders from both the elderly, hospital and psychiatry areas. It is now no longer possible to ban visits to outdoor areas and, in addition, it is now possible to visit the citizen's own accommodation in situations where visits cannot take place outdoors. It is important that we create better opportunities for visits as we have got the infection under control and are opening up society, but it is also important that everything that can be done to prevent infection chains from entering nursing homes should continue to be done, as this may have fatal consequences. It's a difficult but necessary balance. Having said that, the government is aware that there are several stakeholders and parties who would like to see even more opportunities opened for visits to nursing homes, but, as the case from Hjørring Municipality shows, however, there is still a need for caution. We focus on the fact that the restrictions should not be more intrusive than necessary, and we are continuously following the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143624	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143624-2	Thank you. Yes, the Minister has the opportunity to follow the area on a regular basis, but when you ask the Minister about this, about how many nursing homes have been affected and how the infection has been introduced, you cannot be told by the Minister for Health what nursing homes have been affected by the covid-19, nor can you be told how the infection has got in. But the Minister does not answer the question, because my question was: is it the view of the Minister that the elderly should have the same freedoms as everyone else? It is very simple to say yes or no to it. So I would like the Minister to answer that question. In addition, on 23 April in Jyllands-Posten, there was an article entitled "Visit ban causing married couples to meet in secret in the cemetery." I am just surprised that no one has informed the elderly that they have the opportunity to go out of their own homes and take a walk in the area with their relatives. No one has informed us of their rights in relation to this, and that is why they are given the idea that they have, like them, been left in the belief that they should stay in the nursing home and simply have been curfewed, and I think that is problematic. I and the Danish People's Party fully agree that we should take care of the elderly and the vulnerable, but there are also limits to how much you can step on people's freedoms in terms of being able to go outside your own home and be able to go out with your relatives. So why has the Minister for Health not sent out a letter to the municipalities as soon as possible when the Minister became aware that something was going on that was not supposed to happen in relation to this area? I think that is deeply, deeply problematic. I told the Minister last week at Question Time that I have an elderly man who keeps calling me and saying he can't go out. I keep explaining to him that he can. So there is a need for clear and clear communication in this area, but that has not been the case by the Minister for Health. Nor has the Minister of Health provided that information to the older rapporteurs, in relation to what it looks like in the nursing homes around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143838	What has happened is that we are, of course, in close dialogue with KL, which is, of course, the organisation which is responsible for the interests of the municipalities, and that is the organisation which must pass the information on to the municipalities and also the other way around. Of course, close communication is also continuing in the future, and if, as a parliamentarian or someone else, you have examples of something that seems unreasonable and that is contrary to the rules that it is presenting here, I am very, very happy to hear about it, also in writing, so that we can go into the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143912	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143913	I am quite sure that the Alzheimer's Association and the Elders case have brought the Minister's attention to the challenges that have arisen in this area. I am therefore surprised that the Minister did not do anything even when he became aware that there were some things going on in this area which were not to happen because older citizens were left in the belief that they simply had a curfew and were not allowed to go for a walk outside the nursing home or anything else, even though the same guidelines applied to everyone else. Why have older ones been left in that faith?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617143949	As I said in the first answer, we have just been in close contact and dialogue with the KL, that is, the National Association of Municipalities, when these cases have been described in the press, to ensure that there is no place where the rules have been misunderstood, which suggests that the examples mentioned by the rapporteur are given. This is the entrance we have, and we have then made use of it, and then it is KL's responsibility to pass it on to the municipalities, which are again responsible for passing it on to the individual institutional managers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144023-2	It is the responsibility of the Minister for Health to communicate quite clearly in this area, which is why I have repeatedly tried to get some answers to these questions. Already on 18 May I wrote to the Minister for Health and asked him to follow up on which municipalities had opened for visits to e.g. nursing homes, and there I got the answer that the Ministry of Health and the Elders does not have information about which municipalities allow visits to outdoor areas and which do not. So it is not even possible, as rapporteur for the elderly, to be able to follow up the agreement we have reached, because there is no answer from the Minister for Health, and I think that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144059	After all, there are some guidelines that are set out centrally, and then it goes through a system where the different municipalities see them and adjust accordingly. But in this area, as in other areas, but perhaps especially in this new area, where there have been changing guidelines, we are now opening up; now we are going the opposite way, the good way could unfortunately be found examples that some have over-interpreted or misinterpreted, and this needs to be corrected as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144137	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and that is Question No. 1428.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144148	Please read it out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144150	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the latest guidelines for the reopening of nursing homes and hospitals take account of local and regional differences in the number of persons infected, so that more normal visits can be permitted in municipalities and regions where coronasmitted have not been detected for a period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144209	Thank you for the question. I understand the question that is being asked about the latest guidelines of the Danish Health Authority of 12 June, which describes how visits to, among others. nursing homes may take place in accordance with the applicable rules. The purpose of the guidelines is to make recommendations on how to organise and plan these visits to the care centres. The question of where visits may or may not take place is regulated in the notice on visit restrictions. The Board of Patient Safety may require the municipal council to temporarily prohibit or restrict visitors' access to, inter alia: nursing home. Prohibition and restrictions may be directed both at specific offers, offers in one or more parts of the country or offers in general. There is an ongoing focus on the fact that restrictions should not be more intrusive than necessary and that better opportunities for visits should be created as we have got the infection under control. That's exactly why these rules were changed per year. 11 June, so that visits to outdoor areas are no longer prohibited and it is possible to have visits indoors by one to two permanent visitors. We must continue to do all we can to avoid infection chains in nursing homes, and we therefore know that more than a third of all deaths with covid-19 have been found among nursing homes. Therefore, the government is aware that there are more stakeholders and more parties that would like to see even more visits to nursing homes opened up. However, as the case from the current Hjørring Municipality shows, there is still a need for some caution in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144340-2	Thank you for your answer, which came a long way. My focus was, in fact, that the government has in the past pursued a policy in which regional differences have been made. It has been the case that foreign tourists were not allowed to stay overnight in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg, that the public employees in the Region of North Jutland, Central Jutland and Southern Denmark were allowed to return to work while in the Region of Zealand and the capital they had to continue to work from home for a period of time. That is why my question is central to whether the government will take account of these local concerns. For I am of the same opinion: we should not allow anything that could cause the infection to explode. But I think it's been two or three weeks on Mom's since there's been an infection. And there are, like, fast shoe lengths, about 150 km from Hjørring to Mother's. That is why it was interesting for me to hear both the chairman of the Social Committee from Morsø Municipality and also in a joint speech with the chairman of the Social and Health Committee from Thisted Municipality. It is, moreover, a party colleague of the Minister who is asking for a different situation, that is to say, that it is highly problematic that the elderly are not able to have visitors. So it is that the core of my question is: is the Minister prepared, if you look at it in a health professional and can see that there are far or no infected people, to make it possible to make more lenient restrictions, for example on Mother's or the City of Thisted, where I know no one has been infected for a long time either? Would that not be health-enabled? Of course we must be careful where there is a risk, we agree on that. However, where the risk is estimated to be very low, other options are offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144545	Yes, and that is also how I understand the question. This is clearly one of the models we are working on. In fact, it may be in a different version that happens exactly now in Hjørring, where you have closed for visits, thus completely closed for visits to the nursing homes in Hjørring Municipality, precisely because we have an outbreak in Hjørring. In other municipalities in Denmark I also mentioned this, there is open access to some kind of visit and at least visits to outdoor areas and, in many cases, one to two visits per year. older inside. This has been stopped in Hjørring. This is one of the things we need to work on very clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144623	Thank you for that answer. There may also be some ingrained frustration about the way things have been reported out. In what was reported out I believe it was on 9 June that it was at least said that now it was so possible to have visits indoors by one to two regular visitors. However, this is in fact only an option if the health of a resident or the physical environment in the nursing home makes it impossible for the visit to take place outdoors. It is certainly a quotation from the joint contributions of the two Social Committee chairmen mentioned, as they have had in the local media. Then, you might say, there is a hope built up which is so difficult to achieve. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144703	One of the lessons we learn all the time from this new situation is that when you leave it up to a specific local assessment it can be a physical environment, physical health, infection etc., all local assessments there is an assessment difference. And it's a responsibility that's hard to lift for the individual nursing home management, because how do you interpret that assessment in relation to this new disease and this new setup? So the clearer the rules and framework you can set, the better. And the more open, the better. Here we have to make it a little less open than we actually wanted, and where there is more risk of infection there is even less open than we really wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144744-2	In conclusion, I will just go to the bite and say: Fine enough, and naturally, that when a situation arises as in Hjørring, there is a marked shut down. But on the other hand, when there are areas where there has been no infection for a long time, will the Minister allow conditions to be more relaxed than they are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144804-2	Well, I really, really, really want to. The question is whether it is justifiable to do so. And if you can make visits outdoors now it's good weather at the moment it's clearly what our authorities recommend. So it would be a good recommendation to continue to follow. And as we still keep the infection under control, we have to do it. However, the example of Hjørring is an example of a municipality which for weeks has not had the shadow of infected people, and within a few days it has spread into the elderly sector, into nursing homes, into home care. So things are moving fast, and it is our vulnerable citizens that we are dealing with. Even if you have been free for a long time, it can flare up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144840	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We shall continue with a question to the Minister for Health and the Elderly. This time it is asked by Mrs Eva Flyvholm. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1449.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144849	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144850	Thank you. People living in nursing homes and settlements are still extremely cut off from their families and relatives because of visiting restrictions. It has major consequences; people suffer depression or lose their ability. We have also heard of many who lose the ability to communicate, and there are also some who simply die after months of loneliness. That is why I would like to ask: have we not reached the point long ago that it is far too violent to deprive people of the right to family life and association for such a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617144922	The aim of these restrictions is to protect the particularly vulnerable groups, for example: Our elderly, against an infection that can have fatal consequences. In Denmark, which has so far escaped through the epidemic graciously, more than a third of all deaths with covid-19 have been found among nursing home residents, and what we see at the moment in Hjørring is how fast it can be if an infection enters a nursing home. Restrictions on visits to nursing homes etc. has therefore been an important tool to protect some of our most vulnerable citizens from infection. But we also know that, unfortunately, the restrictions have had human costs, both for the citizens concerned and their relatives, and that the deprivation has been great for many, and it is important that we create better opportunities for visits as we have got the infection under control and are opening up society in general. However, it is also important that everything that can be done to prevent infection chains entering nursing homes should continue to be done, as it may have fatal tendencies. It is a difficult but necessary balance. Following the political agreement of 20 May last week, further visits were opened, among others. nursing homes, and this has been done according to a model developed with input from the sectoral partnership for the reopening of the care sector and stakeholders from both the elderly, hospital and psychiatry areas. The government is very aware of the fact that there are more stakeholders and more parties. We also see that today • who would like to see even more opened up for visits to nursing homes. However, as the case from Hjørring Municipality shows, caution is still needed. We are focusing on the fact that the restrictions should not be more intrusive than necessary and, of course, we are continuously following this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145106	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145107	But I feel that I have to say to the Minister that what is happening now is very violent. It is going to sound as if visitors have more or less been opened up, but that is not the factual reality. Very many places are what people can be offered, perhaps an hour once a week, where you sit outside in a parking lot or in a tent. You're under surveillance and you're two yards apart. It's a very, very difficult way to be together as a family. We know that it affects people extremely much. We can see a lot of cases where people can no longer talk where people can no longer walk. This is really hardcore. I understand the concern for infection. Of course, it is also necessary to look at what we can do to get better tests, to keep devices separate from each other and a lot of other things it is necessary to look at, but now it has taken a long time. It is so important to look at the balance that must be present. We have to take it very, very seriously, I believe. This has so great consequences because the majority of people living in nursing homes also have dementia or brain damage or other things that make it very difficult for them to understand what is happening and the damage that can be caused by being inactive or lonely for such a long time is typically also irreparable. That is also what is so critical here. So my appeal is therefore whether the Minister will not make sure that this is corrected where we know this is being enforced much more strictly than it should be, for example. where you can only come one hour a week or where people are still not allowed to go for a walk, even if you should actually be able to do so so you get the opportunity. It is planned that these new guidelines, which do not open up much more, will apply for the next three months. Wasn't it possible to have another look at them before? Because I think people deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145312	Yeah, that's definitely possible. I have no wish that we should have shut down more and further than absolutely necessary. I also get a lot of reports about situations and how to try to deal with these restrictions, and it's not easy for families. It is also not easy for employees and for our institutions, nor, of course, for residents. So I fully share that view. I have a great desire that it should be possible to open up more earlier. As soon as possible, we would very much like to do so, but we also need to have an opportunity to shut down quickly again where the infection flares up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145357	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that we will look at whether nothing can happen here more quickly. Is it not possible also to get a little further with much faster looking at how the municipalities then implement the new guidelines, for example. This one with walks? I know de facto that there are very many places where people are still being prevented from doing so. I think municipalities and nursing homes are afraid not to comply with these restrictions. So can the Minister promise that before the summer break at least we will have a look at how this is actually being implemented? Otherwise, I am also a little afraid that there will be summer holidays in it, and people will actually be sitting where they are for the next three months.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145435-2	At least there's no summer vacation in my ministry. We work 24 hours a day and have done so for many, many months now, and we will continue to do so here. We are following it very, very closely and it is clear that we are also following implementation. Some of what comes from the central centre around the covid-19 situation, we have to put forward a concrete local assessment. We can't describe every nursing home's decor: Is there a garden door? Isn't there? Are there tiles? Is there a parking lot? How's it look? Is there a courtyard? Is that good? Is it sheltered? It is impossible to describe all scenarios, and therefore there has to be something for concrete local assessment out there, but the more local assessment, the greater the risk that there is also too much difference in how to follow and enforce these restrictions. Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145524	But exactly the difference also means that the Minister will do something special for example. I would like to say to the local authorities that, for example, this is the case here. is the way it is in the new rules that you have to pass through indoor buildings to get to an outdoor area. This means that you can also go outside with a wheelchair on the outdoor area of the nursing home and such things as the municipalities actually need to get cut in, I think. Because it's not my experience that it's being followed. So will the Minister turn to the municipalities and give some positive examples of what is actually allowed and what lies in these rules so that we can avoid it being tightened further?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145602	Well, I think it's a good idea to send such a shepherd's letter. Isn't that what you'd call it? I will return when my ministry has looked at it, because the danger is that if you describe a positive list, what about everything that is not on the list but that you must? You can't do that? We need to think about it, but as a starting point, perhaps in dialogue with KL, we can try to find out if there are some of the major basic lumps in doubt and make it clear in such a shepherd's letter. I think that's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145635	Thank you. The question is closed. However, we move on to the next issue with the same person gallery, namely the Minister for Health and the elderly and Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145643	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145644	Thank you. It is, after all, a follow-up to what has been done in the past. mental impairment and the need for familiar and tranquil settings are also seen as a health concern justifying a permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145717	Thank you for that question too. I would like to begin by saying that, on the basis of input from, among other things, the government. The sectoral partnership for the care sector and other stakeholders has partially lifted the visit bans and visitor restrictions that we introduced in March in order to prevent infection chains in nursing homes but only partially. This means that the residents of the country's nursing home have been given more opportunities to have visits as we have got the infection under control and also open up into other parts of society. Under these new rules for visits to nursing homes, the municipal council can no longer prohibit visits to outdoor areas. This is a clear difference, because it was possible to do so earlier, but it is no longer possible to achieve a clear relaxation. However, it is also the recommendation that visits to nursing homes, nursing homes and relief places should preferably continue to take place in outdoor areas if it makes physical sense to do so. But then there are also situations where it is not possible to carry out visits outdoors. It can be physical because it is built in a way where it does not make sense and there is no physical framework, but it may also be that it does not make sense in relation to the resident to be visited. In the case where a visit due to health or physical conditions cannot take place outdoors, then it is that the individual citizen has been given the right to appoint 1-2 regular visitors who can visit indoors. It is then a management task to ensure that all close relatives can visit inside if a resident is critically ill or dying. The same applies if the resident, for example. because of dementia, lack of the ability to understand and accept the visitor ban and have a special need for visits. It is, of course, a great responsibility to transfer to the management of the place, but it is the one who knows the residents and knows the framework and the various elements responsible for deciding whether the resident belongs to the group of residents or patients with these special needs. But we are aware that there is a great desire to open up even more. We follow the area closely, but we can also see that it flares up quickly again, and it particularly flares up in our nursing home. We still have examples of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617145932	Well, this is exactly what you have to apply for permission to come in and it's the nursing home manager who has to decide, I think in some cases it can make it difficult. As far as patients who are bedridden are concerned, it is quite self-evident that you must have access, and that is, of course, a great improvement. However, as far as everyone else is concerned, among other things. because of mental impairment or other things actually find it very difficult to handle such a visit in an outdoor setting, it will be a very, very difficult balance for the care home manager. We can already hear this: that people think it is very, very difficult to have to make that decision, and I think it will be very unevenly implemented. That's why I'm actually looking for the minister to help those nursing home managers and municipalities out there actually hear the signal: Yes, it's okay when you think there's a good reason for it; then it's okay that people get the opportunity to have these indoor visits. It's not only if you're in bed, that this can be given as an opportunity. It is simply an appeal to try, at least as well as to spread out the opportunities that are available, so that they reach people. Because it is not my experience that it is the reality at the moment that the opportunities that might be there are being used, and unfortunately I do not think it will be. In his previous reply, the Minister mentioned that he believed that many would have the opportunity to have indoor visits. I do not think so, but that would be something that I think we should be able to clarify as soon as possible, i.e. how many people actually get that opportunity. I think there are a lot of people who need it very, very much, but it would be helpful if the Minister, for example. I would say yes to that, for example. Think of mental weakening as something that is a legitimate cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150127	Yeah, well, it's not just the physical condition of the resident, but it's definitely also, for example, if you... Because of dementia, the ability to understand and accept these frameworks and these visiting bans is lacking. Then you can also be judged as having a very special need for visits. But I am in favour of the premise that lies in the question, namely that it is a huge task to give to the managements to make this assessment. And another difficult balance in this handling is that there must be as clear a framework as possible, but that there must also be an opportunity to make it work in the individual nursing home. They are very different, they are built at different times and have very different indoor and outdoor areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150215	Thanks for that clarification, I think that's important. Will the Minister also ensure that in the coming weeks we can get a picture of how this is actually being implemented, how many people are starting to use this opportunity and how it is progressing? I mean, I think it is very important to keep this balance on all the time, in terms of what the risk of infection is versus the huge consequences, we know that it is absolutely essential that people are as cut off as they are, i.e. that they constantly get it properly weighed up against each other in the discussion, and that we also already make sure that it is done in the coming weeks, because people do not have so much time to run on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150254	Yes, we do what we can to get the overview together, but one must also be aware that when we get such an overview to send over to the Folketing, it is really a snapshot. Because at the individual institution there may be a situation where, for the individual citizen, the individual elderly, one day it can easily be the case that you can have visits out in the courtyard, while the next day you may have been ill in one way or another, where it is then assessed on the spot where they know the elderly and know the framework: Now we have to switch to indoor visits under the restrictions that exist. After all, we must have the opportunity to do this on a local basis, and we must have confidence that they will be able to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150341	But the basic thing is that we can see now, among other things. The Alzheimer's Association and the Elders Case gets so many inquiries from people who clearly say that people get sick from this. These are people who can no longer walk before, but who are now in wheelchairs and people who get depressed and people who cannot have a family life together at all. Well, it's just not the same to sit at 2 meters away once a week in such a white tent, where everything flapping and flapping and is mega-sounding; it's not the same. That is why I think that there is a very great need to restore as much normality as possible. And it also requires that you are willing to go in and ask: what is it really like?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150422	Well, we all yearn for that, and that's what it's all about. The current situation in Hjørring shows just one municipality which for weeks has not had a single infection, nor has one in the neighbouring municipalities, and in a few days it spreads to more than 20 infected people in a care centre, and there are also infected people in home care. That is why I am in favour of everything here, and I really am also in favour of opening up as much as possible, but we also have to bear the responsibility of saying to the organisations and saying to the relatives: we understand the wish, so let us set it up in the best possible way, but we cannot open it up completely at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150458	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and thank you to Mrs Flyvholm. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, and that is what Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. And Mr. Marcus Knuth is an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150509	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150515	Thank you very much. What considerations does the Minister have in relation to extending an economic safety net under the Danish domestic routes to ensure that the routes are resumed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150528	Thank you for the question. First of all, there is no doubt that aviation is one of the industries that is very hard hit by the crisis, the hardest indeed, and the government is therefore also in close dialogue with the aviation industry on the future scenarios for normalisation. With the aid packages, the government has taken some extraordinary steps so that Danish companies can get through the crisis in the best possible way. The aid packages have also benefited the aviation sector and have, among other things, benefited. contributed to the fact that we have been able to maintain some of the many jobs, some of them, in the aviation sector, including at Denmark's largest workplace at Copenhagen Airport Government and Parliament's parties, among others. The author's party has now agreed to phase out the aid packages until 31 August this year, and it is therefore also important that we look at how we can get the planes back on our wings. Aviation is of great importance for the cohesion of Denmark, and the rapid connections in Denmark and abroad are of great benefit to Danish companies and to Danish exports. The Government has therefore also concluded an agreement on an aviation package together with, among other things: The party of the author, and as part of it, the government will examine the possibilities of supporting, inter alia: domestic aviation, which can be discussed with the parties. I cannot yet tell you when these discussions will begin, but we are, of course, working very hard to call the parties for those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150655	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150656	Thank you very much for that answer. Yes, it is true that it was we who brought the aviation debate in front of the Minister for Finance, and one of the other major concerns, apart from the small regional airlines, is of course also Copenhagen Airport and theirs, at least until corona started, are huge engagement and huge hubs in relation to international overseas routes. Does the Minister believe that they are currently in danger of being taken by, for example, the United Kingdom? Swedish airports or similar due to corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150737	First of all, I would like to acknowledge what the questioner says, namely that the subject, among other things. I have not myself been in the Ministry of Finance. I have not been brought to the negotiating table by the author's party. And there are great concerns to be made in this context, including, of course, the importance of Kastrup Airport in the future. That is indisputable and, of course, it is also one of the reasons why we hope to be able to call for more specific discussions in a very short time. We have not yet determined on the part of the government what such a package should contain.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150817	I thank you very much for that answer and will say from here that I am making myself available very far into July to resolve this problem. I think it is very important, and I am sure that if we put it in the hands of the Minister for Transport, it will be in good hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150834	It's noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150836	Thank you, and that's the questioner, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150839	Thank you. Unfortunately, we see some signs out there in both Europe and the world that there is a risk of another wave coming and that the aid packages we have brought with us now may not be enough. In general terms, it is true that direct State aid is not a great idea; in fact, it is only good when it is the only solution, to put it that way. The best thing is to create the best framework conditions for our companies. This also applies to aviation. Does the Minister have any thoughts in relation to tax cuts, the reduction of taxes which make it easier and ease the burden on our small airlines in particular, in other words, some of the smaller operators who, if it is delayed, risk not being able to survive in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617150927	We are in the process of considering all the screws you can look at within the different frames that are now given. It is the case that, in addition to the general aid packages that have been provided, we have already already, on the one hand, via Naviair, the air control part, and, on the other hand, via the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority have helped where we could, among other things. by postponing payment deadlines and other elements. What the final package in this area is going to look like, I can't conclude on now. The government has not finished its deliberations, but we are also prepared, as soon as possible, to call the parties of the Folketing to these discussions, including the author's party, which has stated that this is an important subject. All possible scenarios are included, and that is what it includes. Of course, it is also a question of looking at what, for example, is being done within the framework for state aid legislation, so that we can use the means there. We will have a final consideration on that. As soon as it is, we call the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151034	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151035	Thank you. That leads me to the next question. After all, many of the smaller operators are very diverse. Some get support locally, some get support through business etc. After all, there is a big difference between SAS, of which the government is a co-owner and which is a major international operator. What will the Minister do to embrace all the small operators? I know that it is a broad question so that no one falls outside the network we are trying to give them and so that everyone gets through the crisis in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151111	Of course, we are looking at all the domestic flights that are in Denmark, of which quite a lot are not in the air now, and we are assessing how we can find a model that is not dependent on, for example, whether it is a state-owned company such as SAS, or rather a state-owned company such as SAS, but it must be a more general way of helping. That is also what I understand there is a demand for among the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151144	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151148	Thank you very much. Is it possible for the Minister and I do not expect him to be able to explain this here at least to examine whether it is possible, within the framework of EU legislation, to consider air routes as community-related traffic, as is the case with certain ferry routes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151206	Thank you. It is assumed that it is possible to do some kinds of PRS, Public Service Bond measures. What exactly can be done within the framework must be examined and, of course, we are also looking at what is being done in some of our neighbouring countries in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151227	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Transport, and that is what Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151235	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151238	Thank you. As traffic is rapidly increasing on current Lillebælt links and in the area around them, does the Minister think that we should have a third Lillebælt connection and, if so, where?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151250	Thank you for the question. The bridges over Lillebælt play a crucial role in the development of local, regional and regional traffic. In particular, the motorway link is currently heavily strained by traffic, and the forecasts of the Road Directorate, which have been made before corona, show that traffic will continue to increase in the coming years; I have no reason to believe that this should change significantly because of corona, but one has to always make a reservation. It is clear that the continued smooth flow of traffic across Lillebælt in the long term requires measures to alleviate the increasing capacity pressure. In a strategic analysis in 2013, 7 years ago, the Road Directorate examined a number of possibilities to expand capacity over Lillebælt, among others. the possibility of a parallel Lillebælt connection and the possibility of an alternative Bogense-Juelsminde connection in this context was examined. But I have a clear assumption that these are not the solutions that the questioner is interested in, but rather a third small belt link in the form of a southern connection between Als and Funen. It is not a secret that I also think it is an exciting project, and I have therefore also said that I think it would be gratifying if we in Parliament could find a broad majority in order to launch a feasibility study on the project when we are negotiating a new infrastructure agreement. It has to be said that the Als-Fyn connection is, however, an expensive project that will not be fully user-payable because there is a free alternative over Lillebælt. New traffic calculations in connection with a possible feasibility study of the project will hardly change this. But all in all, I have an open mind on how to solve the long-term capacity challenges over Lillebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151441	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151442	Thank you. I'm glad. After all, I am fully in line with the Minister when it comes to finding a majority for some good solutions in the negotiations. Every day there are 81,500 motorists over the Lillebælt Bridge, the number of cars is rising and rising as I see it last year by 3%. in relation to 2018 and according to Vejdirektoratet, there will be tremendous tribulation on the Lillebælt Bridge in just a few years. In addition, there is enormous pressure on the roads all the way down to the south of Kolding and almost all the way to Odense. So I fully agree with the Minister that something needs to be done. An opportunity for a small belt connection, as the Minister also mentioned, could be an Als-Fyn connection; that is quite correct. It will be of great importance to both South Jutland and Funen, yes, for the whole of Denmark. It would create jobs, I am convinced. This can be seen from studies here and from the excellent piece of preparatory work that has been done precisely in this context. It would create a good coherence in the Region of Southern Denmark and would be a good socio-economic alternative to extending the two current links between Jutland and Funen. So I think there's a lot that speaks for an Als-Fyn connection. In addition, it may not be entirely coherent in economic terms, but fairly coherent in that there are, in fact, several private individuals who have already shown an interest in investing in it. Of course, the Minister knows all this well, because it should not be a secret that we both set up in the Sønderborg Circle, and that is also why I have several times invited the Minister and all the parliamentary candidates in the Sønderborg Circle to a meeting with the clear aim of getting support for the Als-Fyn connection in particular. The support has been great from all other parties; the only ones who have actually missed these meetings here have been the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left. It is regrettable that the Minister has not had the opportunity to come here, there is nothing to do about that, but the Minister has subsequently announced in this connection that he would like to meet on this, so I very much appreciate that. I would therefore like to start by asking the Minister: what does the Minister think of an Als-Fyn connection as an alternative to an extra Lillebælt connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151646	It is, of course, the case that I am discussing this issue, also on an ongoing basis, with the Radical Left's transport rapporteur, and I assume that the rapporteur will inform the questioner of the discussions we have in relation to it. All other things being equal, I am not so concerned about slogans; I am more concerned that at some point we will have some broad agreements made. I agree that an Als-Fyn connection could relieve the Lillebælt Bridge. The assumption is that it will be able to do this in the order of 8,000 vehicles per day, but it will still leave a challenge sometime in the future, so you will still have a need to look at other reinforcements of the connection over Lillebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151734	Thank you. The question is quite simply: does the Minister think that we need a third Lillebælt link, and where does the Minister think it should lie? So the key is actually in relation to what the Road Directorate says, that the traffic on the new Lillebælt Bridge is strong and that it is really moving. Will the Minister at least not consider whether there is a need for an extra Lillebælt connection and whether it could lie between Als and Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151758	Yes, but I have already done so by saying that I think there is good music in looking at it, i.e. a southern Lillebælt connection, in connection with the forthcoming infrastructure negotiations. But I'm also just saying that this may mean that, despite the assumption that it's supposed to be, but we're gonna have to look through these things... we're gonna relieve 8,000 vehicles a day, we can still leave the existing Lillebælt connection in critical distress after 2040... you just have to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151838	Well, first of all, I would like to thank you for the positive attitude. And then I would like to ask: when is the Minister going to start this EIA study? I could almost imagine that this will be done in the course of the negotiations which are likely to take place in the autumn. But I would also like to ask in this context: how much will the Minister press for this particular project to come about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151857	Now the questioner was told EIA study, but what is being proposed is a feasibility study. The order is, of course, that you do a feasibility study, and if you agree to proceed with the project, you do an EIA study. I just wanted to mention it because I think it was a statement. But it is clear that in the end it depends entirely on what is a broad majority for in the Folketing. And it is also just to emphasise that it is not enough that one or two parties think it is a good idea. I think that we should base our agreements on as broad a majority as possible, including in this context. However, I want to make sure that there is a basis for decision when the negotiations begin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151935	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617151949	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister. Thank you for the floor. We could read here on June 8th...
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152000	I want you to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152003	Okay. The question is: Does the Minister believe that the Ministry should have institutions to order students and others without exception? to stay at home for 14 days, only because they have visited countries other than those opened up in the Foreign Ministry's travel advice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152022	We are in a situation where we need to prevent and contain infection with coronavirus. I think we are all aware of this, and part of the task is that everyone should, as far as possible, comply with the recommendations of the authorities, including those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel guides. The travel guides are indicative, and it is always the individual's own decision and responsibility to go, and therefore you have been able to travel to countries to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises not to travel because of the corona virus, and just as in the recommendations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is room for concrete assessments, the recommendations of the Ministry of Children and Education also reflect that there is room for local assessments in schools and institutions in dialogue with the home. Therefore, the answer to the Ministry's website also says that day offers, schools, colleges, vocational schools and other educational institutions etc. for health reasons, may and should refuse to receive a child, student or student who has been abroad, other than those areas. It does not say that we should, and that means that what we are talking about here is that the most important thing is that we look after children, pupils and students, but also teachers and educators, that is to say those who have to work with children and young people, and I think we can expect each other to make an effort to avoid infecting each other and to make an effort to comply with the guidelines. So it's on purpose that it doesn't say shell, but that it says "should" and "can," because there has to be some rubber band in the way we do these things. On the other hand, I also believe that when we are asked by the sector what is actually being done, if someone has traveled to places where you are worried about infection, when they come back again, we have to give a clear answer, that is to say, in the sense that it is our recommendation that you take and that is why it says "should" and "may" ask the children to stay at home for 14 days in quarantine if it is the case that you have been in countries to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises you not to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152211	Yes, because the person concerned may also have a reasonably high claim, and I would also like to ask: what is the legal reason why the persons concerned should not also be entitled to have the institution carry out an individual procedure independently, with information on all relevant matters, the consultation of the parties and a specific decision based on an overall estimate of, inter alia, the risk of infection in a country as a whole and not just from where you have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152237-2	It is quite simple because under no circumstances is there any capacity for it, and I would think it was shooting grey sparrows with guns. It may be that demand is increasing. If thousands of teachers and educators came and asked for it and said that they had this huge problem they couldn't solve, then it could be that you had to use such tools and that you had to do much more systematically. We're just not there. What we are talking about is that there have been a few inquiries to the Ministry where they have asked: what are we actually going to do if we become aware that a child has been a place where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not recommend going? Then we say that it should and can be said to the family that it is a good idea for them to stay home for 14 days. I think we should try to use the tools that the situation requires.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152324	Thank you! Then there is 1⁄2 minute to the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152326	How, then, will the Minister follow up on this? Should the educational institutions go out and check them all and where they have been, and should each student have some kind of information about where you have been on summer vacation? How are they gonna make sure this is kept?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152343	We do not want to make sure of that, because in this time it is complete, just as it is with the distance requirement. When you take a trip around Utterslev Mose, the health authorities recommend that you keep 1 meter apart and that you make sure you sneeze on your sleeve. It doesn't say a checker checking to see if there's a 1 meter distance or sneezing in the sleeve, unless that's what happens. has happened on Islands Brygge • there are so many lumped together that one has to shut down. So that is to say that, as a starting point, you expect the rules to be observed, and if there is a different situation in Iceland's Brygge, you have to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152418	The questioner for his last question on this question. Does the questioner have any further questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152420	No, I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152428	That concludes the question. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Children and Education and also to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 1456.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152438	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152445	Excuse me, I have already taken the second question: is it the Minister's view that children, pupils and students should be obliged to provide the institution with information about their foreign travels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152456	Okay, so it was in the first question round. Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research, and that is what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152513	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152516	Thank you. In view of the abolition of the dual education rule, does the Minister not find it strange that the rule should be partially reinstated by maintaining the rule that two Master's degree programmes cannot be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152529	Thank you for the opportunity to answer the question. First of all, I would like to say that I am very, very pleased that we succeeded in abolishing the education ceiling. I believe that this will be of great importance to a great many of our young people. In their choice of education, many have felt that it was all on one board, i.e. that there was no room to choose wrong. The training ceiling has contributed to this, which is why I am really, really glad that it is gone. The law on the abolition of the restriction of dual education, as is so finely stated, means that applicants will have the same training opportunities as they had before the ceiling was introduced. This means, among other things, that people who have already completed a Master's degree can be admitted to a new higher education programme if there are available places. This also applies to admissions, for example. a new Master's degree. For graduates, therefore, as before, there must be available places on the training they wish to enter. This rule is a question of allocating a limited number of study places to admission-limited courses in the most reasonable way. If graduates could be admitted to qualifying courses, they would take the place of applicants who have not yet completed a Master's degree programme. That wouldn't be fair. I think it is most fair that a Master's degree in baggage cannot take up a place of study which could go to one of the many thousands of applicants who have not yet taken a Master's degree. And that is why the candidate rule was reinstated by the adopted draft law on the abolition of the education ceiling, and I am fully in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152718	Thank you for your answer. But I think that somewhere it's such a jump back and forth. We discussed the dual training limitation for quite some time before I realized that it had a huge psychological effect on closing doors. And when I look a little back in time, I can see that in the course of dealing with this, the Minister said that it was her first bill as Minister and congratulations on it then. And what better reason to signal to our young people that there is room to fail and choose wrong. There must be this for young people as well as politicians. That is quite right, as a matter of fact. The educational ceiling has contributed to pressure and a feeling of not being allowed to risk the fur. Once we had adopted it, the government's website stated that the ceiling for education had filled a lot for students. It is again the Minister I quote and have created insecurity. Too many young people have taken it as an indication that they must not choose wrong and there has been unnecessary pressure on them. Now we remove the ceiling and hope that it creates more calm and better well-being. Then in March there will be one of the stories that has been, such as: It was about Trine Kofod, who has to give up his dream study. She had then gone and counted on the rule of dual education, namely that after six years one could retrain. She was now limited in taking the education for which she would like to use her freedom. And to that the Minister, as she is also saying a little now, says that she believes it is quite reasonable to apply the candidate rule. It is about distributing the study places that we have in a fair way. I think it is quite reasonable that if you already have a Master's degree, you cannot take up a study place for someone who does not have it and that is what the candidate's rule is about. These are exactly the same arguments that we heard when we were defending the dual education rule, that is, it was not fair to go in and take a place for someone else. So why is it fair in this context when it was not fair in relation to the dual training rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152915	In relation to the training ceiling, if you have taken an education, you can have access to one more if what you had originally chosen does not feel right. We have now reinstated that one can. Compared to the master's rule, if you have a Master's degree programme and you would like to take one more, you can also do so, but you have to choose one of the many, many places in the country where there are actually available seats. Because if there is a queue for an education, we will politically prioritise those who do not already have an education in advance and I think that is only fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617152952	But that is quite paradoxical, because it is exactly the same argument that was used for the dual training rule. One can say that at that time one had then even bought it may well be that we can introduce it now • the way out that after 6 years one could actually apply again on an equal footing with the others who sought. So if we changed it and said that there is a candidate rule, but after six years you can actually take a new education, then we would have a parallel to what we did with double education, so that it certainly does not limit more than the double education rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153019	For me, it is about whether there is a feeling that the doors never close completely in order to be able to train, and neither do they with the candidate rule. In other words, we have almost 400 different educational opportunities across the country with available places. There are plenty of places where you can still take an education, by the way, at the community's expense. I am proud to be able to do that in Denmark, but after all it also makes some demands on how the framework should be linked. I think it is sensible and wonderful that we have abolished the ceiling on education. But I actually think it's fair that the candidate rule is now again there, so that if you already have a Master's degree and want one more, you can take it where there is no queue for the seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153101-2	It is only interesting that this is exactly the same argument that kept going when we were discussing the dual education rule. It was also true that it was reasonable for those who did not come first; that it was reasonable for those who did not have the opportunity to take an education before they could take two and three and four courses. We have abolished this because we found that it actually produced a psychological effect of closed doors. Then we'll make a candidate rule that closes some doors and gives the same experience. I think it is quite, very few who would have used the opportunity, just as very few would have used the possibility of double training. But you take away the opportunity, you close that door.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153140	In other words, dual education meant that it was not really possible to enter those doors. With the candidate rule, there are still plenty of doors open. Hundreds of educational opportunities across the country have available places. There are plenty of doors to walk in. There are plenty of opportunities to take additional training. I hope, moreover, that we will go somewhere where people will be given more guidance and advice so that they end up on the right shelf from the start, so that we do not have to have this discussion nearly as much. But, of course, there will always be some who stagger in their choices, and of course there must be room to choose wrong, both as a politician and as a student and as a student.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153216	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The first question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is Question No. 1406.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153235	Please read it out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153238	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's position on the April 2019 agreement between Austria and Serbia that Austria can place foreigners illegally in Austria at an exit centre located in Serbia, and will the Minister try to get Denmark connected to the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153258	My position is first of all: great congratulations, both to Austria and to Serbia. I think it will be in the interests of both countries when this gets going properly. I am pleased that the two countries have reached such an agreement on the transfer to Serbia, among others. rejected asylum seekers. The agreement shows, first of all, that it is actually possible to reach such an agreement and, secondly, that there may be common interests between the countries receiving asylum seekers and the countries that asylum seekers pass through on their way to northern Europe, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That agreement increases the likelihood that more rejected asylum seekers in Austria will return home. I am sure of that and the agreement will also reduce the incentive to move towards Europe at all and, in this case, Austria. This means that, as an irregular migrant, one can no longer bet on having a longer stay in Austria by not cooperating in its repatriation or by dragging the processes into delay when asylum has finally been refused. However, I would also like to say that I welcome the agreement, because it is also a sign of a slightly more general shift in Europe, I hope for a shift that is about us getting recognition that the current asylum system is not working. It is a system that gives irregular migrants and potential asylum seekers an incentive to embark on these dangerous travels towards Europe and which allows people smugglers and mafias to earn billions of dollars. At the same time, we and the rest of the European Union are spending enormous resources on rejected asylum seekers who have no right to protection. Just one example: the same as a single rejected asylum seeker at a Danish exit centre costs, you could get 800 home help hours and emergency aid in the form of blankets and vaccines for approx. 600 children. That is why we are working for a new asylum system. In this regard, we have proposed moving asylum procedures to a third country outside Europe. This is a difficult task, and it is also a different task from that of the Austria-Serbia agreement. However, this does not change the fact that it is based on the same thing: binding cooperation between countries in Europe or the European Union and countries outside the European Union. That is the way forward, we believe in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153456	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153457	Thank you. It is a good thing that we are looking at the same part at least, so that we want to move as much of the asylum procedure as possible and, of course, also the handling of those who are going home. I think that is what makes it as little attractive as possible to apply. It can be said that if people come along the Balkan route, there is a good enough distance to Denmark from the first EU country they enter. That is why the position with Serbia is right and lucrative, including for us. But what's the big question, then, is where Denmark is in this. Because according to among others... We can see from the newspaper Politiken that the former Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, was very involved in this project. Among other things: in October of last year, 2018, there was a joint meeting in Vienna, where she and her then ministerial colleague announced that this center would now be put in place. You also had a series of other points that you worked on. But nothing has really happened since then. It's like it's really fast all of a sudden just vanished. It's something you can't really figure out what really happened to. Therefore, it would be nice if the current Minister for Integration could give us some certainty as to how imminent this is. For me and for my party, this really is a burning question. We need to stop the influx to Denmark. We certainly also need to have better opportunities for those who should never have been involved in illegal immigrants, rejected asylum seekers, etc. Therefore, it would be nice if the Minister for Integration could also say something more concrete about where we stand in relation to this agreement with Serbia with Austria.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153700	I would like to start by saying that I have never been to Serbia, but it is actually not so long ago that I was in Croatia, and it is a country that has very few asylum applications, but which is a transit country, and at least I realised that migration is also a challenge for transit countries; it is not just us as recipient countries. So there must be some common interests here, and that is what the agreement between Austria and Serbia is an expression of, and that is why I am actually very pleased that it has been concluded. What I am a little sorry about, of course, is that Denmark is not part of it. The agreement was made in April 2019, so it's before my time, so I really don't know the reason why we're not part of it. I had hoped so, and as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party before the elections I also called for us to become part of it, but I simply do not know why the previous government did not succeed in bringing Denmark into this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153742-2	Is it an expression that Denmark is definitely excluded from this? It would, of course, be a huge shame if it were to disappear, as Mrs Inger Løjberg has dedicated so much of her time and efforts to cooperate with the Austrians. I can see that the minister here to Politiken says that you have not been involved and that there is no agreement and such things, but hopefully that does not mean that you exclude when this is going to happen, that Denmark can then become a part of it. Could the Minister be a little more specific about what the future holds?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153814	Firstly, of the many ministers from other countries with which I have met, chemistry with the Austrian Minister in this area has been among the best, and this is about both personal and political chemistry. It has not been long since I sent a joint letter to the Commission, in cooperation with him, Karl Nehammer, with some common views in the field of foreign policy. So cooperation between Denmark and Austria continues, and I have also made it clear that we are both in favour of a reception centre at which we are going to vote, but we are also in favour of a centre such as the one they have agreed on here with the Serbs. But it's a deal they've made and you can't just break into it like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153902	I am, of course, fully aware that it is not only possible to break into a contractual relationship between two or more other countries, but what is just so strange is that according to what Politiken writes here, Denmark has been a fairly integral part of the whole start-up phase. In the debate in Austria one can see how the couple race with the Danish government is like being highlighted, and even in the political debate has been quoted then Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen to say that the country that is elected must be a not very attractive place, etc. So it's weird that everything just kind of ended. So what happened? Mrs Inger Løjberg, as a minister, was able to carry out this task, but when the Minister became a minister, everything stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617153942	As I said, I do not know what happened before I entered the office, but I can only note that a joint press conference was held in Vienna between the then Danish Government and the Austrian Government, and then an agreement has been reached in April between Austria and Serbia, and Denmark is not part of it, and that annoys me. I have, of course, reached out to the Austrian Government, which, in parentheses, is also new. It is a cooperation between the Conservatives and the Greens, just as we have had a new government in Denmark, but the views, as I understand them at least, are not changed very much in Vienna, and that is probably the basis for our continuing cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154019	Thank you. The question has been closed and we shall move on to the next question, which is also from Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt, who is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154027	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154030	Thank you, President. As the Minister, before becoming a minister, during the election campaign in 2019 • among other things. In Altingen, on 29 May, presented a proposal that sermons should subsequently be translated into Danish and made publicly available, but the government does not yet seem to have submitted a concrete proposal, will the Minister state whether he still thinks what he said before becoming a minister and when the Folketing can expect such a proposal to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154058	Yes, I think so, and thank you for the question. It is true that, in May 2019, we presented a motion ^ as far as I remember, it was even during the election campaign itself and it was an initiative that among other things. contained a suggestion that sermons held in languages other than Danish should subsequently be translated into Danish and made publicly available. And we are working on this proposal, and the relevant ministries involved are also looking at the proposal. I cannot say yet exactly when a proposal will be put forward on how this will be achieved, but I would like to say that since the elections and so far, we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration have had our focus and our priorities elsewhere, among others. in realising what we have just been talking about: a new asylum system. We have also spent time getting a bill on anti-democratic donations in place. It is a little bit about the same thing the questioner is asking about. And we have proposals against negative social control. It is here that, as a first important step, in the autumn, we will be tabling legislative proposals to ban religious weddings of minors, and in which we will tighten the penalties for those who forcibly maintain another person in a marriage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154220	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154221	I have no doubt that I would never suggest otherwise that the minister is hardworking. But the fact that you have a lot of other important projects and electoral promises in the pipeline does not, of course, justify saying that something else does not really enjoy the promotion. I believe, at least from what the Minister says in public, that we share the view that what is happening in many mosques around the country is particularly worrying. Unfortunately, there have been both hidden cameras, but also by direct revelations, lots of examples have come out where some monstrous things are said, inviting people in with the most mad views. We need that to be made public, and that is also why I think that the proposal put forward by the Minister before he became a minister in the election campaign was good and had many positive elements. Of course, it should not be harassing, i.e. that for example. The Catholic Church may invite a priest from the Vatican who then may preach in Latin or Italian, or whatever it may be. I don't suppose that's what's going on here. At least it is not from our point of view. That is what is happening in the mosques, which is problematic. With everything that we experience with radicalisation, namely that more and more Muslims are moving away from free society, away from democracy, away from the liberalism that I think the Minister and I agree to be Denmark, it is as if this proposal is becoming more and more topical. Therefore, without going into the Minister's work at all, I would just like to say that it is a little urgent. In fact, we would like to see some action by the government. And the honeymoon and such things are probably over in relation to the parliamentary elections. When can we expect something to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154414-2	I agree that we have a challenge with what is going on among some religious religions in Denmark. I am also quite sure that the questioner will agree that, when we legislate, it must be possible to operate all over the palette and that there are also some challenges with the fact that there are a lot of religions that also have sermons in anything other than Danish and that have worked completely unproblematicly. We need to find the right balance here. It is true that I have said during the election campaign that we will achieve this. We are still on the mark for this. We have, for example. also said that foreign preachers who come to Denmark and get a residence permit must have a stricter Danish requirement, and it is also on the government's dining list. And I really hope that in the next assembly we can put forward a legislative proposal on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154457	Now I just get curious, because is it the case that the sufficient resources have not been allocated to the Ministry of Integration? Or what is it that makes things seem a little in a bottleneck? I think most Danes agree that the absolute biggest problem in general is probably corona, but in general it is immigration. That is why it is very worrying if you have a young and energetic minister who comes up with a lot of new ideas that he wants to translate into legislative proposals, and then you run into bottleneck problems in the department because there are no resources to translate it. Well, you should be able to solve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154535	Now, like the questioner, I was born in 1981, so we are no longer young. But the question that belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, which deals with Danish requirements for foreign preachers, is that the plan is being put forward.I really hope so in the next assembly and that we there can get it adopted. When it comes to regulating religions, it not only belongs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it also belongs elsewhere, and therefore it is a common task across ministries to realise the electoral promises that emerged from the May 2019 foreign policy initiative. But that doesn't change the fact that it's still government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154611	But let me just finish by saying that my last point under the Rules of Procedure will ensure that what we are talking about is something specifically aimed at solving the problem in relation to the mosques, the Islamic subcultures we have around, which threaten our democracy, equality, liberalism, etc., and what I understand the Minister is the balance here, is to ensure that you hit those who do not want Denmark, but, on the other hand, do not bother those who are a natural part of Denmark, whether it be in Buddhist temples or Catholic churches or whatever it may be. Do we agree that this is the challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154651	I am sure that both the questioner and I remember the TV 2 programme called the Mosques behind the veil, and following that broadcast in the distance, I think we were many people who were wondering: How do we manage what is going on in the religions that are directly opposed to democracy? Following on from our proposal, I also think there was a very relevant public debate where there were some religions that are in no way part of the challenge, which also just raised a flag and said: Please remember that we have been operating in Denmark for many years under certain conditions, and there is no reason to drag unnecessary bureaucracy down on us. That is the balance we in the government hope to find, not against a single religion, but against anti-democratic forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154729	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. The next person to ask questions is sir. Marcus Knuth, and it's also for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154738	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154742	Thank you, President. What will the Minister do to ensure that the number of foreigners sentenced to prison who are granted Danish citizenship does not increase in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154754	The granting of citizenship is a very large declaration of confidence and, of course, if you want to obtain citizenship, you must behave properly and comply with the law. It's self-evident. Rules apply today as to when you can become a Danish citizen, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. In the summer of 2018 was among other things. The Conservative People's Party helped tighten these rules so that it became harder to become a Danish citizen if you have committed crime and I also know that both the questioner and I participated in the negotiations. This means that more crimes now rule out a person from ever being able to become a Danish citizen; one's actions must have consequences. But there must also be the right balance between the offence and the consequences. In the 2018 agreement, we have taken into account both the crimes involved and the sentence imposed. However, as I have already said, I would also like to discuss with the contracting circle whether the cut has been right or whether some adjustments are needed. I know from our own rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party that at least he believes that there is a need for some tightening up, including in this area. I therefore think it is quite natural that we should discuss this in the next session of Parliament, and I also imagine that we will have the first preliminary discussion at the meeting that we have in the circle of agreements scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154905	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154906	Thank you. After all, we Conservatives do not want to give a Danish passport to criminal foreigners, and we know that in the forthcoming bill there are 15 criminals or, at least, convicted foreigners. Our desire to go in and vote against the 15 will unfortunately be blocked by a majority of Social Democrats and the Left, and we are very sorry about that. Why will the Minister not support the fact that we can share the bill so that we Conservatives can vote against the convicted criminal foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617154940	That is because an agreement is an agreement, and the Conservatives themselves are also a law and order party. We have reached a political agreement, even under a government in which the Conservatives sat, in which it says that people who meet certain conditions can obtain Danish citizenship. Then there are some people who seek under those conditions, and then I think it is quite right that they should have their citizenship. I think that's just off the road. If each party can come and say that you do not want those who have received a traffic ticket of DKK 3,500 and that the bill must then also be split up, or you could say that you do not want to give it to people who come from non-western countries, then it all ends in chaos, and then people do not know what to do when they seek Danish citizenship. A deal must be a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155023	It is, of course, the view of the Social Democrats that they would then vote for the 15 criminals because they comply with the current rules. But that does not change the fact that we have a legitimate desire to vote against criminal foreigners. So if we divide up the proposal so that we cannot vote against it, it is not the same as the Social Democrats having to vote like us. So I still think it is a legitimate wish to give us the opportunity to vote as we wish. I still do not understand why the Minister wants to block the fact that we can go in and vote as we wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155055	It is true that it is the view of the Social Democratic Party that an agreement is an agreement, and that should also be the view of the Conservative People's Party. When we have made an agreement and people have lived up to the demands we have made they have done everything we have asked them to do, then of course I also think it is quite reasonable that they get their citizenship. Then I think it is a perfectly reasonable objection that comes from, among other things. The Conservative People's Party states that there is a need to adjust the agreement. That is quite legitimate, and if we then decide to do so in a majority of the Folketing, then new applications must, of course, comply with the new rules. It's self-evident. But if people do not know what they have to comply with, because politicians do not want to stand by their own words, then everything ends up in anarchy, and that cannot possibly be the wish of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155135	No, of course it is not, and that brings me to the last question. After all, we have sent a joint letter from the blue parties calling for calls for new negotiations on Danish citizenship. There we heard the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Rasmus Stoklund, say the other day from the platform that the negotiations come here, I think he used the term in winter. Will the Minister stand by that announcement? So, will there be negotiations here in the course of 2020, which we blue parties have set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155205	There will be negotiations. My best guess is that it will not come by 2020, but it will certainly happen in the foreseeable future. Because I think it is healthy that we should not go too often on a regular basis, but perhaps once in each session, because new rapporteurs and also new parties have arrived, just sit down and consider with each other whether the rules are exactly as they should be. It is, of course, a very comprehensive circular, and we keep gathering a little for piles, and we find out that something is not quite working as it should. I know, among other things, that both the Social Democrats and the Left have had some criticism of what is called the passages, on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. There is certainly a need for an adjustment, and I also imagine that there are other issues. I can, for example. imagine that the Conservatives would like to discuss the requirements of vandalism, and that is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155247	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Marcus Knuth. The next question is to the Minister for Housing, and it is asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155300	First there is the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155306	Thank you. How does the Minister view the long process of ensuring that municipalities comply with fire safety legislation and how many municipalities still have to comply with legislation on fire safety in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155322	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155323	Thank you for the question. The study on fire safety in the country's nursing homes was launched in autumn 2018 as a follow-up to the tragic fire at the village center Farsøhthus, where three older citizens died. The last municipalities submitted their response to the study at the beginning of 2020 and have been contacted since then if they have self-declared to have buildings where the fire safety measures are not in accordance with the fire requirements in force when the building was built or last rebuilt. The study has made it clear to the individual municipality where correction is to be made and as building authority the municipalities have a clear obligation to ensure the legalisation of illegal situations when the municipality becomes aware of them. I have taken the initiative that the municipalities for which it has been unclear when the work on the legalisation of illegal nursing homes will be completed have been asked to put an end to this. In my opinion, the overall situation has been unsatisfactory. That is why I have also been interested in following the study to the full so that the elderly can feel comfortable with the accommodation that is made available to them. The study and follow-up have undoubtedly been a major task for the municipalities. A fire safety upgrade of existing buildings can be extensive, complicated and require a great planning work, but it is my clear impression that the municipalities are now on the right track. There is no end to the legalization work in 38 municipalities, the vast majority of which expect to be completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155450	Thank you. I understand that the Minister, like myself, as rapporteur for the elderly, finds it totally unsatisfactory that legislation on fire safety is not being complied with. So I would also like to ask the Minister in relation to the 38 municipalities which still have to meet the requirements in this area: will the Minister provide an overview of the remaining municipalities which still have to comply with the law in this area? Because the challenge is this long, long process. And at the same time, I just have to say that now I saw that the mayor of Elsinore was out to say that it could not be understood as I understood it because there was corona, and then it was difficult to live up to the legislation in that area. But the fact is that of course service workers and others have access to nursing homes. Fire safety is important. We saw this precisely in relation to the village center Farsøhthus, that is, the tragic fire that was there. So how will the Minister ensure that action is now being taken, and what will the Minister do if the municipalities continue to fail to comply with the legislation by June or when the Minister said it was? What is the Minister's intention in relation to that part? Because it is also the case that periodic penalty payments can be awarded if a municipality fails to comply with the law. Is this a road the Minister is thinking of going, or how will the Minister ensure that the municipalities now comply with the legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155635	The question arises as to which municipalities it is, and the questioner can actually get my speech paper here after the question, and then they stand there. The City of Haderslev has finished 1 July, Sorø 31 August, Norddjurs 1 September. And then there is the announcement that they have finished December 31: Billund, Brøndby, Dragør, Fredensborg, Fredericia, Frederikshavn, Faaborg-Midtfyn, Gentofte, Gladsaxe, Helsingør, Hillerød, Hjørring, Holstebro, Høje Taastrup, Hørsholm, Copenhagen, Langeland, Lolland, Odder, Odsherred, Randers, Roskilde, Silkeborg, Skive, Tårnby, Vejle, Vesthimmerland, Varde, Vejen, Aabenraa and Aalborg. And then there is Bornholm, which is finished February 2021, and Hedensted, which is finished April 2021, and Sønderborg, which is finished May 1, 2021. And then we need a final answer from the City of Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155724	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155725	In other words, there is only a lack of answers from a municipality if I understood the Minister correctly because this is important. The fire started back in 2018, and there has been a former minister who has started work in this area, which has not been followed up by many of the municipalities. There has therefore been, I think, a long series of years in which the safety of nursing homes has been put at risk, in the event of a fire. Something else is so that you could discuss it but I can't discuss it with the Housing Minister how to ensure that there are enough staff to help the residents if a fire occurs. Therefore, I just want to say to the Minister for Housing that the Danish People's Party will follow this closely, and we want the Minister for Housing to send over the speech papers, but also forward-looking information about the municipalities that comply with fire safety. I think that was something that should have been done a long time ago, and it is totally unacceptable that this has not happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155831	I fully agree that this is completely unacceptable. There is no question of us making new demands here. It is a question of asking the municipalities, which have supervised their own buildings and which have not been adequately supervised, to correct the shortcomings. There has, as has also been mentioned, among other things. in Helsingør Municipality, been discussions in the public about whether we are now making too extensive demands, but I have to say that I do not recognize that at all. It is quite reasonable that nursing homes in Elsinore and anywhere else in the country can also live in a way that does not risk burning in, regardless of the fact that there may be a process that some municipalities seem to be taking a long time. We have given them until the turn of the year, and I think that is already stretching it very far. I also know that the rapporteur agrees with this but now we are also at the end of this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155918	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617155919	I also think it is a long process, but I expect the Minister to keep the municipalities on fire, in other words to ensure that there is safety in the care centres, that there is proper fire safety, so that you do not have to go and worry, either as a foster home or as a relative, about the fact that the fire installations are not in order. In other words, the municipalities have not complied with the legislation, and that in itself is absolutely wrong. So the Minister can really bite the municipalities hard in the hassle and also issue periodic penalty payments if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160007	Yes, please. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160008	Yes, but it has been received and I intend to use all the possibilities of sanctions that I have at my disposal. And if I do not bite the municipalities in the hamstrings, I am sure the rapporteur will bite me in the hamstrings later in the process so that it is received.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160023	Then we thank the Minister for Housing and we thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We are going to the next Karina, and it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF, who has asked questions to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160035	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on slapping sludge in Lillebælt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160043	Thank you for the question. We must take good care of our marine environment, and I think the questioner and I fully agree on that. And that also applies, of course, when we do activities such as slap. Nature is in crisis, and this applies both on land and in the sea. For too long too little has happened when it comes to prioritising nature and a good marine environment. I myself attended a conference with the Help Lillebælt group earlier this year, focusing on finding common solutions to secure the marine environment in Lillebælt. If an authorisation is granted for slap, it must of course be on a basis that is nature- and environmentally sound. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency therefore assesses the potential impact of the slap on the environment before authorisation is granted. The assessment shall include the content of hazardous substances in the material and the dissemination of the material in the marine environment. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency makes an overall assessment of the potential impact of the flapping on the ecological and chemical condition of the water area, and this is done to ensure that the flapping, among other things. do not impede the achievement of targets in waters or conflict with the designation basis in Natura 2000 sites. We must constantly ensure that our rules are up-to-date. In concrete terms, before I heard about this matter, I have already asked the Ministry of the Environment and Food to set environmental quality standards, i.e. limit values, for more substances than is required today. This work will serve as a basis for assessing to a much greater extent the state of the substances that are harmful to the environment in our aquatic and marine environment. The new environmental quality requirements are also expected to include: to be able to have an impact on the future management of banging permits, and that is why my ministry will also look at clapping in the context of the strategy for environmentally hazardous substances that I have asked for is being developed. In connection with the specific case of Kolding Municipality's application for folding at Trelde Næs, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has not yet made a decision. The Danish EPA has involved relevant authorities, including Fredericia and Middelfart Municipalities, and I would, of course, like to call for a good dialogue on the matter between the interested parties, who have also been consulted on the matter. As I said at the outset, it is important for me that we take better care of our marine environment and nature, and therefore only folding should be allowed where it is environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160258	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160300	Thank you for your answer. I do not know whether I became so much wiser at the Minister's attitude towards slapning more about what kind of criteria there are in relation to slapning. Kolding Municipality is planning to dump 360,000 tonnes of sludge coming from the harbour in Lillebælt. The harbour sludge is contaminated with all sorts of phosphorus, nitrogen, cadmium, copper and it must then appear in the middle of Lillebælt. And that doesn't mean the drugs will be gone. They will be scattered all over the seabed. So does the Minister not think it is a thing of the past that such dumpings are made at sea? Now we have got rid of, or are at least getting rid of, landfill sites on land, which have caused us great problems, and we need to clean up generational pollution and other things. So does it make sense to make water dumps? What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160355	It may well be that I did not make myself clear enough, but what I said was that when clapping is done, it should of course only be done if it is natural and environmentally sound. And there it is, of course, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that has to make a specific assessment of the applications. In the case at issue here, no decision has been taken. For it is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's job to look at the specific case and of course also assess the marine soil material • is it something you can move, how is the assessment of the material? It's a court order. But, of course, we must ensure politically that clapping is carried out only when it is natural and environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160450	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160452	After all, we have had long times with left-wing governments, which may not have been as concerned about our common nature as a new majority. I think it was Anders Fogh who once said that there wasn't a bird, a frog or a fish that had gotten worse during his reign. I don't know if that's true. Now we have a red government, and I think we should work to ensure that every bird, every fish and every frog gets better. And when the Minister himself has said that a strategy for limiting environmentally dangerous pollutants in the water and marine environment is to be drawn up in 2020, I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of whether there is a risk that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will grant a permit under the rules of the past, and does the Minister not think that we should stop that authorisation until we have at least become wiser?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160542	It is important to say that when I have asked for a strategy in relation to environmentally dangerous pollutants, it is to ensure that when we constantly become wiser, we must use that knowledge to stand on. We will soon have to make new river basin plans, where we will look at how to significantly reduce some of the nutrients that affect our marine environment and among other things. also Little Belt, which we are talking about here, where particular nitrogen is a significant pressure factor. That's one of the things we need to look at. But, of course, we also need to look at chemistry, which is why this strategy is important. But the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is already on a knowledge base today, and it is up to them to look at this case and say: Well is it nature- and environmentally sound? And that decision has not yet been made. So I think it is important to say that this is the framework for it, in terms of whether it is feasible or not and that, at the same time, we are also looking at the consultation answers and also the criticism that is then made by local authorities in relation to the project, so as to ensure that if authorisation is granted, it is only because it is nature- and environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160651	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160652	In any case, I do not hear the Minister give a promise that it might be put on hold until the Minister has replied to all his studies in relation to water quality. I think that is a little too bad, because I think that there is a big difference between needing to muck out to a sailing and then building a project which, in addition, one seems to be sustainable, but it then involves dumping sludge containing all sorts of substances in Lillebælt. I would have liked the Minister to have said something about that. Now you take some dirty sludge and move it to a place where the seabed is then also dirty and the water quality is poor. Well, that's not gonna make things any better, is it? Does the Minister not think that if Kolding Municipality were granted a permit, there would also be a risk that we would be at odds with the EU's principle of non-degradation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160739	The reason why I stress so strongly that it must be nature- and environmentally sound is that this is what the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has to decide on the basis of, and they are already on a knowledge today. The fact that we have to build on it all the time is only good, but that does not change the fact that their task is also in cases where further studies are needed to measure the actual seabed material to be moved. So that's not how you just have to close your eyes and say that because we don't know enough, they can probably get a permit. That's not how the rules are today. It must be nature- and environmentally sound. You have to look at Natura 2000, you have to look at the material to be moved. This is, of course, absolutely crucial, because we want a better marine environment, and there are so many things that need to be done. That's one of the things I hope we're gonna do with SF too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160828	Then we thank Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. We move on to the next question to the Minister for the Environment. That's by Mr. Keating. Nils Sjøberg, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160840	Thank you. On the basis of my previous Article 20 question to the Minister about the loss of oxygen in Lillebælt and the fjords of South Jutland, will the Minister explain how the Minister will deal with the future of sea-farming and mussel fishing in the specific area and whether he will acknowledge that sea-farming and mussel fishing are important for the oxygen loss and the seabed, and what will the Minister specifically do in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617160906	Thank you for the question. The loss of oxygen, which often occurs in late summer in inland Danish waters, underlines the need to reduce nutrient emissions. Oxygen loss is a phenomenon promoted by an increased supply of nutrients, but also wind and weather play a role. Therefore, it will not quite be possible to avoid oxygen loss. There will always be a risk of oxygen loss in hot and windy summers, but I myself have also been out and helped to measure oxygen loss and see that it has been historically high. Marine farms only contribute to a small part of the total nutrient emissions to Lillebælt, but our marine environment is therefore I have also reported that I do not see that we are getting more or more marine farms in Denmark, so this also applies to Lillebælt. As far as mussel fishing is concerned, it is based in Denmark on a number of objectives and management principles. These principles are laid down in the mussel and Baltic policy of May last year. The policy must include: ensure that the fishing and farming of mussels in Danish waters is carried out on a sustainable basis. Fishing is subject to a number of conditions and rules designed to ensure that fishing does not impede the achievement of environmental objectives and that, inter alia, the obligations set out in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 are met. The habitats directive is being complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161029	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161030	Thank you. As the Minister and I discussed in this Chamber a few weeks ago, the marine environment in Lillebælt and the fjords of South Jutland has been extremely poor over the last few years, both because of the weather, as the Minister said, but also because of the lack of environmental legislation over the last many years. On the basis of the question and answer given just now, I am pleased that this is something the Minister will be working for. The Minister has just mentioned dumping sludge in Lillebælt, exactly at Trelde Nose. I really hope it can be understood that it will not happen until it is absolutely safe and OK, and I find it very difficult to see that it can get right. I strongly reject the burden of dumping sludge in Lillebælt. But there are also other challenges in the Danish inland waters. Two weeks ago, I drew the Minister's attention to the large amounts of nitrogen that help kill all life in the fjords of South Jutland. It is usually agriculture alone that stands for good, but new studies show that there are other elements as well. The emissions of nitrogen also come from other discharges into the sea, from dumping sludge and from marine farming, and then you can actually correct it a little by refraining from mussel fishing, that is to say leaving clams. All of this has been crucial to life in the fjords of South Jutland and Lillebælt. My general question to the Minister is specifically about the future of seafarming and mussel fishing in the fjords of South Jutland and Lillebælt. Will the Minister acknowledge the importance of marine and mussel fishing for the oxygen loss in the seabed? This is done on the basis of Hjarnø Havbrug, which has allegedly overproduced huge amounts of fish and thus emitted large amounts of nutrients into the marine environment. It's nutrients that make the oxygen loss worse. We have a lot of sea farms at Børup Sande, at Skærbæk Harbour, around Kolding Fjord, we have split sea farms south of Sønderskov and at Fænø in the middle of Lillebælt. Does the Minister think that we should remove these marine farms in Lillebælt until it is restored to a good environmental state?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161244	I am actually glad that the questioner is focusing on this. I also have to say very clearly that it is a very serious environmental matter if the illegal activities for which the aquaculture company is accused have been committed, in other words the specific case referred to by the questioner. Of course, as a minister, I cannot go into the specific case, which is now a matter before the courts, but I would say in general terms: environmental sinners must be held accountable in Denmark if they violate our environmental rules. In relation to the aquaculture sector a little more generally, i.e. the marine farms mentioned by the honourable Member, I have said, first of all, that we do not want to have more or more marine farms in Denmark, and therefore we do not want to have to introduce the regulation which should allow for compensatory marine measures. Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council. ) Secondly, the Danish EPA is currently looking at both environmental authorisations and location permits in relation to existing marine farms. And it is an official service, as it is now, that they have to go through it, but of course on the basis of criticism from among others. The DA's office. Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council. ) So, there has to be a review there. And then we are also in the process of having the entire administrative base cleaned up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161357	Yes, please! The Minister therefore has only half a minute and the Minister has had ample time with a little goodwill on my part, but the Minister must also listen to what the President says at least once in a while. Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161409	Then I would like to thank you for your answer and to welcome the fact that no more sea farms will be built and that they will not be allowed to grow. I think that is very positive. I also hope that we will be prepared to eliminate marine farms where they are harmful to the aquatic environment, especially in inland waters. And they are clearly in Lillebælt. Does the Minister think that if, as in cases such as those of Hjarnø Havbrug, if that is the case, and everything seems to have been done, they have violated the conditions, they should mean that the future use of marine farming in Denmark should cease? Should it be removed completely, or is the Minister just happy with it, as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161451	I'll try to make it shorter and subtract the time I spent too much before. I would say that my watch does not work, and then you can quickly talk too long. But quite briefly I would like to say that we are cleaning up the mess. The Danish EPA is looking at the actual permits for existing marine farms that are now. We have said that we do not want more or more marine farms, and then we are in the process of ensuring that control of the current aquaculture is significantly improved, that is. with better supervision, which we gather in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which means that we must be able to control feed information, medicine consumption and all the things that have been a criticism of in relation to the marine sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161530	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161531	I hope that the Minister will stop dumping, which we started by talking about in the last question, and I would like the Minister to stop seafarming in the most vulnerable areas, yes, very much. And I would like the Minister to say stop clam fishing in Lillebælt, because mussels help filter the water and actually help create better oxygen conditions in the water. This can be seen by the fact that there is a difference between fishing on the Danish side of Flensburg Fjord and on the German side and how life is on the one hand and on the other. Although it is actually the same fjord, there is no doubt that it is reasonable when the Germans point out that we must stop mussel fishing in Denmark and in particular in Lillebælt. My final question is therefore: does the Minister think that we should stop clam fishing until we have good environmental conditions again in Flensburg Fjord and in Lillebælt at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161621	I am very concerned that we ensure a better marine environment, that we address the pressures that exist and that we clean up the aquaculture sector. There is, after all, a whole piece of work going on on the authority side in relation to the approvals that have to be made. And then, of course, we also have to ensure that it does not affect our eelgrass if there is clam fishing, that it does not have the negative impact that we do not want, and that it is just right in relation to our nature and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161654	Then we say thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and we thank Mr. Nils Sjøberg. We move on to the Minister for Culture, and this is a question by Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161710	Thank you. What is the Minister's position regarding the removal of, among other things, a number of countries? historical sculptures because they are apparently offensive, and the Minister believes that in Denmark the country should be vacuumed for historical monuments etc. in fear of being offensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161727	Thank you for the question. I will confine myself to commenting on historical sculptures here in a Danish context, as it is very different with the tradition of sculptures in different countries. In a Danish context, I would like to reply clearly: No, I do not think we should start removing statues in public space. It can quickly become a completely impossible reflection, as I see it, because who has not really been guilty of something with our many thousands of years of history that we today consider a crime? As far back as Harald, who won Denmark and Norway and made the Danes Christians, one might well say that he did not only with conviction and nice words, and that is how we can actually take the whole royal line with a whole series of sculptures, just to mention a dilemma. But I think it is a dilemma that we have sculptures, that we have houses, that we have buildings that also contain a dark part of our past. That is why I think it is important and also an issue that I would like to discuss further with the rapporteurs, how we remember just how to get the whole story of the statues that we have. They must be a reminder that we have a past that it is important to understand in order to learn from it and also to learn what we should not repeat. That is why I think it is very important that in recent years we have actually established monuments, sculptures that also convey the other side of history, for example. slavery and colonial times on the former Danish-West Indian Islands, which had otherwise been well hidden and perhaps also slightly forgotten. I am thinking here, for example. at Freedom, which is now standing at Eigtveds Pakhus, and at Am Queen Mary, which stands in front of West Indian Pakhus in a temporary version, but as there among others. 1 million kr. In the support of the Ministry of Culture now also work to make permanent. I think this is a better way to strengthen our storytelling and use our sculptures, our buildings and, hopefully, our history not to repeat the mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161942	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617161949	Thank you for that, Minister, and it is fair enough that you do not want to deal with what is going on abroad. After all, we are in the Danish Parliament, so that is fair enough. But there is, of course, a dangerous trend in removing things because they seem offensive in the present. But, as the Minister says, if we do not stick to what was past and what was also the past that we can all be tired of, then we cannot learn from it either, so as not to repeat the mistakes that have then been made. That is why I need our Minister for Culture to stand guard over this and fight for it. After all, we see that agitated crowds abroad actually succeed in getting rid of things that are not something we should be proud of today, but which are, of course, very important to hold onto, also in order to teach future generations what they should not do. So will the Minister be watching over the Danish cultural history?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162046-2	Yeah, I definitely do. I would also like to say that, although I have, of course, taken note of the debate here on land, I do not in any way think that it has the same approach, perhaps precisely because we also have different sculptures. What I have at least heard from the political team has been more this proposal to set up a commission which would thus contribute to telling about the history of the statues, of course, derived from this debate. But such a commission could of course be interesting if it was about how we ensure that in connection with the statues or buildings, or whatever it may be, we get the memoirs of the whole story. Because that's what we learn from. We learn not only from seeing the story they wanted to tell about themselves at the time, where one sometimes gets to forget the dark sides, but we learn from knowing the whole story.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162143	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162144	I agree with that. However, it can be a little dangerous because sometimes you only get half of it, or half of it is communicated. So if you're going down that road, it's incredibly important that you get the whole picture and that you don't judge the past with the glasses of today. 'Cause it's really dangerous, and then it's that we get into these rabid crowds who exercise vigilantes and tear things down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162212	That's exactly the balance I'm trying to find myself. Because, on the other hand, I understand that if you do not get the whole story told, it can be provocative if you get out of a family or from a region that has suffered. Now we are celebrating reunification, and there we all have the opportunity to remember the story that all the peace, all the freedom that we have today is not something that has come quite naturally. It is something that has required blood, sweat and tears and many long democratic and sometimes corporal struggles. So we should have that respect for each other. But it is a balance, and I think that the only way forward is to keep our whole story going, but then to work on the whole story being what you see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162303	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162303-2	Did I hear the Minister say that some work had been started or that the Minister wanted to set up a commission to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162312	Frankly, the proposal for a Commission has not come from the government. It was such an answer to what kind of debate I have noted here on a country-by-country basis. And since this is the first time I have discussed it with a rapporteur, I would just like to say that if there is a desire to have a discussion on it in the rapporteur's circle, then of course I am always open to it. But I do think that the way we have gone to it lately is precisely working to bring the whole story along, for example. these statues where some of them are quite newly created, showing the other side of history. I also know that the National Museum has been there, and they also have it as part of their exhibition. So without saying that everything is perfect because it's in no way that things are still gone that we should remember not to sweep under the carpet I think we have a good learning approach to our history, namely that no one is wiser to try to forget what was difficult. We must learn from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162412	Thank you. The last item on today's agenda is a question to the Minister for Culture, and it has also been asked by Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162425	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the Royal Cast Collection is threatened by an old leaky sprinkler system, but that the assembly cannot be moved and the building cannot be renovated because the Ministry of Culture cannot decide what to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162437-2	To begin with, I would like to say that it is the Statens Museum of Art that is specifically responsible for the building and they have also informed me that the statutory fire vision of the building will be carried out every year. So the assessment I have asked about at the Statens Museum of Art in the light of the debate that has taken place is, of course, that the collection is not acutely threatened by the circumstances which the questioner, among other things, is threatening. refers to in the question. But that does not change what is asked in the second part of the question, namely that in the long term there is a problem with West Indian Pakhus and what will happen with the assembly. I understand, then, that in the previous Assembly there was an agreement between the author's party, the Danish People's Party, and the previous government that this was a problem that one should try to solve. At that time, the previous government and the Danish People's Party chose to initiate the investigation which I saw somewhere taking over. It is true that it has not come to a conclusion because I wanted other aspects to be included, other than the economic aspects, that is, what we really want with many of these houses here is one very historic house, but there are others too, so that it is not just about the economy, but also about our cultural heritage and what it really is about a development policy that should be, that is, how culture should be included in the city, so that it is also included. So it is not really a question of the Ministry of Culture not being able to decide. This shows that the Ministry of Culture has changed management and that there are other values than the economic ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162612	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162614	So what the Minister is saying is that the work initiated by the previous government is continuing, but that there is still no complete clarification or evaluation. Is it then the case that the Minister calls the rapporteurs when there is some sort of evaluation? And is it also the case that it will be in the Folketing that you decide what to do, or will it take place in the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162640	I expect that the conclusions for all these buildings, which the previous government launched the analysis, will be available in the autumn. For yes, there is a plan, and it is precisely to take it up in the rapporteur's group. Because whatever happens, whether we want to develop the buildings with their current function or maintain them for another function or sell them off, that is something we must decide together. So it's coming up in the fall. One might of course wish that the approach taken by the questioner now had also been what reflected when this study was launched. But we are hurrying, and I expect to return in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162721	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162723	Has the Minister thought of setting up this historical museum in West Indian Pakhus, as there is an association that is very concerned? And it has also had its presence before the Committee on Culture. Or is it simply too late for it to be included in the evaluation to be carried out this autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162742	The review of the study, which I carried out on behalf of the current government, which was intended precisely to include prospects other than purely economic ones, was changed before this debate arose. So I must honestly admit that they are not part of the analysis as it is now, but I have of course taken note of a wish to do so. However, I would just like to say that with the problems that the cultural world is facing in general right now, a three-digit million euro for a new museum in an area which is already very closely occupied with museums is probably not what is at the top of my wish list. I think we should now focus on saving the great cultural values that we have, which are so faltering under the effects of the Corona crisis, before we start putting new ships into the lake. However, that does not change the fact that these are fantastic buildings that the previous government carried out a study on, and that is why I also think that we should have other perspectives than purely economic ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162837	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162838	So is the minister in favour of selling these buildings? We agree that these are fantastic buildings, and I, as rapporteur, would certainly be sorry if they were sold out. So what is the Minister's a little more personal attitude towards it? Is it something we have to fight to hold on to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617162856	This will depend on the result of the analysis, which is because it's not just about this building. This is the building that the questioner's question is about, but the analysis is about a large number of buildings. In addition, I also think that the author's party and the previous government probably also had the same insight as the current government, namely that we also have a whole lot of other buildings, which have a really large maintenance deficit, in fact in the order of 400 million. kr. And if you can't try to get some of this money, for example. So by selling some of these buildings from or otherwise optimizing the operation, we have a common task of finding the 400 million. kr. by other means. That's why the analysis hasn't just stopped. But I have chosen to say that other perspectives than purely economic ones must also be included, because West Indian Pakhus, but also quite a few of the other houses that are being analysed, are quite fantastic buildings that have something other than economic value.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617163002	Then we thank the Minister for Culture and Mrs Pernille Bendixen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200617163013	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 18 June 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
