ParlaMint-DK_20200609143002	The meeting is open. The items listed as No. 3 and 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143021	Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) has applied for leave from 9 June 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143050	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Danish People's Party in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Christian Langballe, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 9 June 2020 on the occasion of Dennis Flydtkjær's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, I shall, with the agreement of the House, regard the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143145	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143450	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143455	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143706	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143712	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143942	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609143949	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour of the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members voting against the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining from the draft law are asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144124	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144142	In January, most of the parties in the Folketing concluded an agreement to ensure orderly conditions in the road transport sector. In New Citizens we very much recognise that globalisation has consequences, and we certainly do not want to see underpaid foreign drivers driving cabotage in Denmark in poor conditions. We agreed with the agreement precisely because we wanted to contribute to securing what was widely agreed in the agreement, namely that there should be orderly conditions on the roads, a level playing field, and that, of course, freedom of association should be maintained, I said that then, and I say that today too, because we have a whole business future in our hands. With the law that we shall finally vote on today, unfortunately, I come to think of the song about Larsen; it should be so good and so it actually bad. First of all, it has been an incredibly hectic and messy process that started incredibly badly and certainly did not get any better from the fact that we have been working on the bill. The draft law simply does not live up to the agreement that has been reached, namely the agreement which points out two specific points. Point 1: The same framework conditions must apply in relation to labour costs when Danish and foreign transport companies drive goods on Danish roads. And paragraph 2: The agreement must be implemented in full respect of the freedom of association and the applicable collective labour law. And I am concerned about both, but this is particularly the last point that I am very concerned about in this legislative proposal, which, of course, means that New Citizens cannot support L 185 as it stands here, and there are several reasons for this. There is a need for a clear definition in the draft law of the possibility for road hauliers to choose between several agreements in the future too; there simply needs to be a prior approval of all the collective agreements between, for example, road hauliers. KA, Christian Trade Union, ITD and the Trade Union House. These must, of course, be included in a positive list on the Danish works council's website from the beginning and not after a longer procedure with both the board and the collective board, because this will only create uncertainty among the hauliers and will certainly contribute to some of pure uncertainty choosing a 3F agreement. The other collective agreements must, of course, be treated as 3F's. And that is the amendment that we dealt with in the law last week. The second important point in the draft law L 185 is a separate point which allows 3F agreements to always pay less than other collective agreements. This makes absolutely no sense, and it really only confirms the first impression that the Minister wanted to strengthen the 3F's de facto monopoly by the back door. That is why we are now tabling this amendment, because we simply want that point of the legislation, that is to say Article 6 (6). No. 3, No. 2, removed. One should not be given special status simply because one is called 3F • it should be common sense. We have also asked a lot of questions in the course of the debate, and in short we have received answers in the East and West. The answers in the consultation note were different from those from the Ministry, and the wordings in the agreement are different from those in the comments to the law; it seems either incredibly sloppy or a little bit sloppy. We entered into this agreement with a clear assumption that we would be able to secure orderly conditions in this area and guarantee freedom of association. That is what the agreement says, and unfortunately the Minister chooses to neglect it, and that is a real shame. So this bill doesn't solve the problems on the contrary. This gives separate rights to 3F, which already has a de facto monopoly on transport, and we do not want to strengthen that monopoly on the contrary. New citizens cannot therefore support L 185 as it stands. The Minister, with the proposed amendments, could live up to a large part of what was promised in the agreement, but it seems that this is not what he wants. It should be so good and then it's actually bad. That is why I would recommend that Parliament back the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144554	The vote will be taken on the amendment, which is Amendment No. 1 by Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. The Members who vote in favour of the amendment are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 12 (KF, NB and LA), against 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144826	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609144841	Thank you for that, President. Now we have just heard that there are at least three parties in here who believe that we are giving a monopoly to 3F. We're not gonna do that. We allow all agreements to be pre-approved and that you can go after them. There is no mention of 3F being given a monopoly and we are introducing an exclusive right in this respect. It may well be that a little time is running out for us to get the first hauliers approved for the agreements. But if they live up to the cost level in the collective agreements, that applies to KA and Krifa and the Trade Union House, and what the different agreements are now called, in addition to those that 3F has, then you have an equal right to conclude agreements. And, of course, we've been working to get it pre-approved. It couldn't be done. You have to have an assessment of what you are included in the agreement. But what remains, when you look at the vote, is that whatever is being said, this bill is about how to avoid social dumping in the road haulage industry, how to avoid social dumping in cabotage. And there, unfortunately, we have to note today that the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance believe that it is all right to have social dumping in the freight sector. That's what you assume. The Liberal Alliance has always stated clearly that they believe that it should be the forces of the free labour market that control it. But new citizens and Conservatives were included in the agreement from the start because they said that they would do something about social dumping. Then comes the discussion on how the trade unions should get their agreement recognised. And yes, there will be some time when the new agreements will have to be put in place: do they live up to the cost level? And the cost level New Civil and Conservatives agreed from the start that it was okay. However, because from the outset it was not possible to get into the website of the Danish Customs Authority that they were approved, you will not be involved in doing anything about social dumping. And it's just regrettable, and it's sad that we have to stand here. We have worked so long to prevent social dumping in the road haulage industry. We did the same under the previous government. We were working on how to get the goods transport industry, the cabotage industry to stop social dumping against those driving in Denmark. And yes, this proposal does not help in relation to those road hauliers who have international driving, for example. as in the Padborg case, where they drive abroad. But it is for those who drive in Denmark, those who have cabotage in Denmark, the hauliers who enter into an agreement in Denmark, that is to say that they get an agreement that is satisfactory for their employees. And far along the way, we must also recognise that if there is a carrier who does not have an agreement, they would also have had it approved if they were to meet the cost level. But it still remains to be seen that New Civil and Conservatives think it is okay to have social dumping in Denmark in the road haulage industry. That is what remains, and it is simply regrettable that we have two parties that helped to reach an agreement from the outset and, when it comes down to it, we will not do anything about social dumping after all. That is what remains. But it is because of social dumping that the Danish People's Party is voting in favour of the proposal, and we can also see that the trade unions that somebody likes to call yellow get their agreements recognised. They're going to be on the Danish Trade Agency's website as recognized, and then you can draw on it. It's the short of the long. And then it is just regrettable that you see those who do not want to do anything about social dumping. They are standing in a row here to make brief remarks to me. That's fine, and I'll answer them as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145247	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145254	What a fire speech. And that is simply not true, because with very few and small adjustments one could have done so that this bill actually came in and made a difference. But paragraph 1 - and it may be that the rapporteur can confirm this to me - is going to resolve the original problem, in which a committee was set up to examine how to solve the problems of, for example, the Padborg case? Is this really going to solve this problem? No, it doesn't. So this is a lot of work to solve a problem that is not solved at all, but on the other hand you go in and make a separate piece of legislation where you actually allow 3F to negotiate a worse agreement than all the others, so 3F has special rights. Paragraph 2 goes in and says that all other agreements must be approved only after the entry into force of the law. The department of commerce has to get in over, and they also have to get in over a contract board. It takes time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145403	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145409	What does the Folketing not do to get some exercise in here? It's just wonderful. When you look at this case, the Kurt Beier case, the Padborg case, where you used Filipino drivers, they don't drive cabotage in Denmark; they don't drive in Denmark they drive abroad. We cannot legislate here in Denmark about what salary they should be paid when driving down in Germany, and New Citizens should also be aware of this. The Danish People's Party has always been aware that this bill had nothing to do with the Kurt Beier case as such. It may well be that this was what triggered one's having to look at whether one could come up with something to ensure that the rules for cabotage in Denmark were complied with and that drivers got a good salary. It has been on the way for a long time, and I believe that the rapporteur on the left can say that the previous government has been working on solving the problem of cabotage. We're gonna get this done by giving them a salary that's up to an agreement. And yes, Krifa, KA and the Trade Union House will also have their agreements approved if they otherwise meet that wage level, and they have said that they will do so, so we cannot see that there is anything wrong with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145518	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mette Thiesen, for half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145524	As I said before, if we wanted to align these agreements with each other, we could simply do what we have always advocated, that is, of course, that we pre-approved. That's one thing. The second point is that I simply cannot understand how any bourgeois party can support the fact that there is a separate part of a paragraph of this bill, where 3F has the opportunity to negotiate agreements that do not meet the requirements to which everyone else has to comply. It just doesn't make any sense. So there are quite a few things in the way of dealing with this bill, which has been completely misplaced here, and this bill does not solve the problems that it was put in the world to solve either. So it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145605	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145610	All I have to say is that we are left with new citizens wanting to do something about social dumping. New citizens will not think it is good for new citizens to have social dumping, and they think it is fair enough for truck drivers to be underpaid. That is what remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145633	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to be sure that is a brief comment, Mr President. Niels Flemming Hansen has to the rapporteur. Niels Flemming Hansen I will try to keep the schedule). Thank you. There is one more brief comment, but then there is one more rapporteur's speech. I'm not taking the "A" off, all the time I'm assessing there's no more than Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested, who wishes to speak as rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145655	Thank you very much. After all, we have heard Bent Bøgsted stand here and try to exterminate more parties from the platform, compared to the fact that we do not want to put an end to social dumping. Never have I ever heard so much nonsense and then even from an honest North Jutland, I just don't understand that. We clearly want to see equal pay and working conditions in this labour market; that is not what we are discussing at all. What we're discussing, sir. Bent Bøgsted, is whether the agreements that are on the market are equivalent to yes or no? Is it therefore the case that there are some agreements which have more difficulty in obtaining a road haulage agreement at the moment they apply? There is. And it is there for those you mentioned earlier as the so-called yellow unions. I just have to point out that this is the basic law for all goods transport in Denmark, and if you do not have a permit on 1 January, which you do not have, because they must first be approved, then you say no to turnover. That's the situation you're putting these companies in with your voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145809	I remind you not to use direct charges. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145815	Thank you for that, President. I'll try to make a little more sober speech. If you look at what Conservatives are saying here, Conservatives say directly that the agreements in relation to the unions that are not 3F, that is KA, the Employers' Association, Krifa, the Trade Union House, are worth nothing unless they are pre-approved. There are no hauliers who will enter into agreements with them because they are not pre-approved. When they make an agreement, they will be approved, and then it will be stated on the Danish Trade Authority's website that they are approved to be able to enter into agreements. But what we are still talking about, and I have to say this over and over again, and I will also say this next time, is that Conservatives still want social dumping in the road haulage sector to continue. That is what remains. And it is sad to see that Conservatives will not do anything about social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145924	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen for the second round of half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145930	Thank you very much. I have to wipe out my face, because the rapporteur knows very well that this is not the case. In reply, I would say here that what the Danish People's Party is doing here is a dispute with the freedom of association and the freedom of assembly, and what else we have of freedoms in Denmark, but at least the freedom to choose its own agreement. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145953	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609145958	It's not a fight with freedom of association. A trucker can still choose which agreement he or she will be in and with whom he or she will enter into agreements. This doesn't change anything. It is even so wrong that a road haulage operator who does not have an agreement can have his employment contracts approved with the employee if they meet the cost level, so they do not have to enter into an agreement. So this has nothing to do with freedom of association. It remains to be seen that the Conservatives will not do anything to counter social dumping in the road haulage sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150030	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor in the rapporteur's series, is Mr Gundelach. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Now I see that New Citizens have also asked for the floor as rapporteur for the main legislative proposal. I still assume that it will take place within the speaking time, and so I am not taking the vote-A off. Here you go, sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150050	Thank you. It was just before I thought that perhaps we should not take the floor, because it is a pleasure to experience the bourgeoisie so much arguing among themselves about what they are voting for and what they are not voting for. However, I think that on behalf of the Enhedslisten I would like to emphasise that Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right in the arguments he puts forward here from the platform. This bill is about combating social dumping, and I have pointed out in the past that, in our view, this is the biggest step that has ever been taken in the fight against social dumping on the road. Great praise for the parties that support it. In order to do so, in order to implement this bill, it has so many different reasons, first and foremost for the sake of the European Union and their equal treatment rules, etc. etc., were necessary to establish the guiding agreements in this field and if not agreements in the field of road transport covering between 85 and 90%. I do not really know what kind of agreements should give direction to all the agreements in this area. And what has been the purpose of those who are not voting for this bill today has been to stamp out a whole series of very, very small agreements, we call them yellow agreements and give them the same status as the agreements, which are therefore 85-90 per cent. And they are concluded by 3F on the one hand and the major employers' organizations in the road haulage sector on the other, i.e. DI Transport, ATL, DTL. I would like to remind the bourgeois parties who are now voting against that, on the other hand, of these agreements, which are 85-90 per cent, some employers' organisations, some of the largest employers' organizations in this country and in this area, and I have not heard any criticism from the bourgeois parties who are now not voting for the bill, shouting a monopoly after these organisations. No, it is 3F that you do not want to give a monopoly, and it is true that it is essentially the purpose. 3F doesn't get a monopoly with this bill, they don't get from the agreements, which, of course, gives direction. Whether you made an agreement that was better than 3F's, it did not give direction, but it would, of course, be acceptable immediately. It is, of course, a safeguard against being able to offer something that is inferior, and there has been an effort to do so, not least from the Christian Trade Union and so on. and so on, which has some agreements that do not, to the best of my knowledge, meet the level of 3F's agreements at all levels. But we'll see about that. So there is no form whatsoever of either monopoly formation or anything else, but there is a trade union in this country that does a huge amount of good professional work and has therefore been able, as I say, to draw agreements at 85-90 per cent. of the area. I think that is the problem for the bourgeois parties that do not vote in favour. I have to say that I am deeply astonished that the Conservative People's Party can agree to vote against this draft law and have so much opposed what is basically the situation in the labour market, namely that there are some trade unions and there are some employers' organisations that enter into agreements. I do not know whether anything new has happened with the Conservative People's Party in this regard, since it will no longer be recognised that this is the situation in the field of land transport, because it therefore seems that 85 to 90% of the population is affected. In the case of the agreements covered by the large employers' organizations and by the 3F, it is necessary to adapt to this. But I understand that this principle is no longer upheld by the Conservative People's Party, on the contrary, because it is evident that we must now decide what to look like. Freedom of association is not affected because people have to make all the trade unions they want, and some have taken advantage of the opportunity over the years. But if we are to find a guiding agreement, we must also find those who dominate, and that is what we are doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150538	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested of the Conservative People's Party from Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150547	Thank you very much, sir. Henning Hyllested to make it clear that we are not in favour of social dumping. Thank you very much for that, because it is true. And I repeat once again that this is a question of whether we could get what has been referred to as the yellow agreements approved in advance. We have agreed in the original agreement that they should not depart unequivocally and substantially from the 3F agreements. So we're kind of on the same page. We just haven't had the opportunity to get into this bill that these agreements are pre-approved. That is what we have fought for in every possible and sometimes impossible way. That's all we're saying. And we are simply voting against, for the sole reason that we simply cannot see that other agreements are placed less favourable than exactly 3F's in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150648	If we agree, I do not understand why the Conservative People's Party is not voting for this bill. We have had to, and it is also in the political agreement, put forward the agreements which give direction. And now I think I will say it for the tenth time: if not the agreements which are 85-90 per cent. in the field, is directional, I don't know what. This means, of course, that all other agreements that have to be put in place must be assessed in this light. It is of course no problem if the agreements then comply with the level of 3F's agreements. So I think that the Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance here is creating a problem which is basically not there and which is not reflected in the legislative proposal. But at any rate, if I may say so, one gets some distance from or disapprove of how things are in the Danish labour market. And I cannot believe that at least the Conservative People's Party, which is sticking to the other side of the table, if I may say so, the employers' organisations and their important role in the Danish labour market, can stand up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150801	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150804	Let me repeat once again: I also do not understand that other parties can stand to create a de facto monopoly for 3F, because the goods traffic law is the constitution of the Danish freight transport system; no freight transport agreement, no freight transport and no turnover. I'm sorry, but that's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150827	Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150833	Nor is this the consequence of the draft law. It is no longer right to be repeated time and time again by Mr Beazley. Niels Flemming Hansen. This, as I said, is a very good step in the fight against social dumping. It is, of course, backed by the trade union movement, and it is backed up by the major employers' organizations. It was even those organisations, among others. 3F, DI Transport, DA and FH came up with the original proposal, which is now translated into a bill. These are the ones against which the Conservative People's Party is opposed in this connection. I say you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150915	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur. The last rapporteur to speak is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609150924	Thank you. The reason I took the floor is, in fact, that you have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. What has to be left after this is that from the start, New Citizens have wanted order in this area. We're still doing that. A committee had been set up to come up with a solution to the so-called Padborg case. This bill doesn't solve that problem. What remains is that we are very few in this Parliament who have fought a hard fight and are still fighting for real freedom of association and equality of the various agreements. This bill will not be possible either, because it has been refused, from the outset, to pre-approval of these alternative agreements. This legislation does not solve the problems. On the contrary, it will create a lot of new ones. This will create uncertainty, and at the same time there is a specific part of the legislation that goes in and allows 3F to actually negotiate poorer agreements than that which the other collective agreements in this area have to meet. Of course, as a bourgeois party, we cannot support this. Fixed conditions: yes, thank you! This bill that doesn't solve the problem and that creates a lot of new: no thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151052	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151058	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote shall be closed. 3, specified manner). In favour 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 12 (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151304	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151310	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote shall be closed. 3, specified manner). In favour of 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA and ALT), against 8 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151526	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151536	Why have we stopped calling things what they are? asked the Prime Minister when she gave the opening speech last year. It's a completely unnecessary alienation. Later in October, the Minister for Education said that it has become just as special with all these strange names. She won't allow schools to take names like that. Tradium and Learnmark. Today they will only get approved names such as Randers Afterschool and Horsens Afterschool, it was said. We were very pleased about this in the Danish People's Party, and that is why, at the end of October last year, we made a proposal for a parliamentary decision requiring the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions and to make suggestions on how to ensure that the educational institutions are given Danish main names. Since then we have been debating this at a first reading, and now we have to vote on this in a moment. I wonder why the government is not voting for it. I am also surprised when I read the report that there is not even a justification for why we are not voting in favour. It may, of course, be because you will be voting in favour in the near future. I would very much hope so. Because I think that we have just asked for a resolution to be adopted on what both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education have said in the past. But I look forward to seeing if the government will vote for this in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151654	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151659	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated way) For voting 8 (DF), against voting 87 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151922	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609151926	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 15 (DF, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 72 (S, V, RV, EL and KF), abstentions 8 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152151	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152156	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 22 (DF, EL, NB, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 73 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. That leaves us with no more votes. Thus there is a very short break before taking up the next point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152445	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152453	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152528	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152535	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152607	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152618	Thank you. When the State or other public authorities intervene in the ownership and impose restrictions, it is usually quite normal that landowners be compensated. This should also, of course, be done to the landowners in this case, where restrictions are imposed and rights are taken away from the landowners. The landowners suffer a loss, of course, and we think that we should be replaced, but the government has not agreed to do so, at least not yet. The minister tries to explain that on average it is not so wrong and in that way, but average considerations alone do not give a true picture of it. There's a very big difference between how the pilots get hit. Some pilots are even hit very hard, and some even threaten it with very big economic challenges, perhaps even in the worst case of economic ones. We think it is highly questionable that the government is merely referring to the possibility of a derogation or perhaps compensation, but only if it is, so to speak, starkly clear that it is expropriation, and, moreover, it is referred to as an attempt to adapt in the first two years. The government is simply running from the bill, and we think that is highly questionable. We have, of course, tried to clarify this in committee, but it is not clear how the individual pilot, who gets into a mess, can quickly clarify his situation. We would like clarification and clarification of this. That is why we are asking for the bill to be sent back to the Committee on the Environment and Food between the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152814	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment. It will take place from the platform, and it is from Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152830	It sounds so good with all those green, green positions that all parties suddenly have, but here we are today in the Chamber with a proposal that is green, and what happens then? We must ask the rapporteur of the Left. We know that a green transition requires the victims of everyone in Denmark to do so. And at the first proposal that comes, you run from the green promises. I don't see what the problem is at all. There's a long, long transition phase where you can adapt to this case. Isn't it just that the Left is only green on paper, but when it comes to legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, is it the end of the green?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152929	That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609152932	We have also made it clear in the past that it is fine to look at and that we must take good care of nature and so on. There are about 450,000 ha § 3 areas in the area approx. There's no problem with 400,000 of them. We have no comment to make on that. But the last approx. Thirty-seven thousand hectares is what this is about. If it is then that we intervene and impose restrictions on the owners concerned, that is to say to intervene in the ownership of property, then we think it is perfectly natural that compensation should be paid. I did not say anything in my rapporteur's speech this time, nor did I say anything earlier, but that if we are to protect it, we should simply replace it. The fact that we also think, as we have said in the debate, that this could be done in other ways, is something we have debated a great deal. But here on the bottom line we are, of course, as green as we have always been, and we want to take care of nature, but when it is that you intervene directly in ownership, impose restrictions, so that the pilots get a direct loss, then of course you also have to replace it. That is what our main appeal is now in the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153039	Mrs Mette Gjerskov on another point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153044	The reality is that this is about avoiding pollution. If we impose special requirements on companies for emissions or other, we will not give them compensation. Here we have addressed some of the areas in agriculture that they need least. We've grabbed where they least need them. And then we have even said that if there are some people who are particularly affected, they will be compensated or they will be granted a derogation. There are the possibilities that the Left is calling for, so it's just getting into the green fight. I think you should press the green button when we vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153135	That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153138	The Socialist rapporteur is beginning to talk about avoiding pollution. Now it's not the Øresund wastewater case we're talking about right now, so I think that belongs in another discussion. We have said quite clearly that we would very much like to take part in the protection of nature. I can also just refer to the recent reign, when we were clearly ahead in blue camp in terms of creating more untouched forests and things like that. So I guess there's nothing to come for. Here the main anchor is that it should be as natural as when the public expropriates to a road or other, in other words, the landlord inflicts a loss on the landlord that you have to replace it. It's basically the clear and simple. And I think it is bad that the government simply refers to the fact that as a pilot you can start legal proceedings and see if you can win. So we don't think that's the way to do it. When the state and the government inflict a loss on the citizen and the pilot owner, it is necessary to replace it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153230	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153238	Thank you for that, President. I can only endorse what the rapporteur of the Left said, namely that we are taking L 164 back in committee between the second and third readings, and it is really very sad that we have to do so. What is most regrettable is what the Socialist rapporteur said, namely that when something green finally arrives, you will not vote in favour, but I would say that when you finally want to make something green, you will not invite the other parties inside. There has not been an invitation to a single bourgeois party to make the green deal you could have made on § 3 areas. In fact, there are 3 areas which should be withdrawn from service. We have also tabled an amendment in which, among other things, we have tabled an amendment. says that there are areas that need to be tampered with. In fact, we think that this legislation could be quite good, but the government chooses to say that the green proposals have been given such a strong mandate that you just want to flatter the rest of the Folketing that you don't even want to talk to the rest of the Folketing when you have to make nature policy. That is simply not right. It's not okay to take nature hostage in this. What may happen, and it has happened before, is that there can now sit a red government and use its power to implement it, and then a blue government can come and use its power to unpick it again, and how much nature have we got? Nothing. But if you now made a broad agreement if you wanted to talk to each other about how we make some green solutions, it might in fact be that both farmers and nature could come out as winners in such a case. I think it is a pity that we have a minister, a social democracy, a red bloc that will not make natural policy with parties other than itself. And why wouldn't that be? It's because you want this fight. There must be the good and the bad, and the only one who loses is nature. I think it is sad that we should stand here at second reading and talk about section 3 nature, which is really something that needs to be protected, and then it has to go back to committee. I really hope that the Minister will take this seriously and consider again whether a broad agreement should not be reached so that these natural areas could also be protected in the future. It is a sad day, but of course we support the withdrawal of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153446	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153454	Taking nature hostage is something I simply cannot relate to. What we are doing here is taking huge natural areas away from the plough, away from the spray and away from the manure. It can only be good for nature. I do not see at all what the Danish People's Party means by broad agreements. This is not something where there have been agreements with long negotiations. This is something we chose to do. Everyone has known this, and since we got the green majority and the red majority last summer, the Danish People's Party has also known that this was something we wanted to implement. Out with the syringe, out with the manure, out with the plough • We protect nature. How does the Danish People's Party plan to move forward in the natural discussions if they cannot even take part in this proposal? Nature has had to be protected for decades, but hasn't been protected now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153611	Thank you for that brief remark. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153616	That's bullshit. The Social Democratic Party also went to the polls for Arne to retire early. Nothing has happened, but it also costs some money. Here it is easy, because here it is agriculture that is going to pay. But then I just want to say that broad agreements have a long way to go. Nature does not get it during four-year parliamentary term or for that matter eight-year parliamentary term; it gets it in the long run. And that is why I think it makes absolutely sense, even when we are going to the climate negotiations, to try to get agreements across the middle so that they can also hold a parliamentary election. Compared to this, there are precedents. It's happened before, and it was rolled back. That's just too bad. I also know that the Danish People's Party helped roll it back. That is why we have also put forward a proposal now, a compromise proposal in which we take the 20%. out where there is most natural value. But what is the answer? Then you answer: Hm, it's hard to find out where they're at 20 percent. is, because we do not really know where the good nature is, but now we have at least proposed taking out 37,000 hectares. I think that is a pity, because the intentions of the bill are quite fine. What is the problem here is that performance is very poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153717	Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153723	I guess the thing is, when you have to prioritize the green and it's going to hurt a tiny bit, you run away from it. We'd like to cooperate. The minister has been in consultation I do not remember whether it is two or three times, but it is at least several times that she has been consulted on this matter. She's answered well over 100 questions in this case. I find it difficult to see what has not been elucidated. I think that the Danish People's Party should also recognise that they are actually invited to join. Sir. After all, René Christensen and I are in negotiations on climate issues several times a week at the moment. The government wants to negotiate, but it has to be green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153814	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's the rapporteur, sir. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153819	That is absolutely right, as Mrs Mette Gjerskov says. There are plenty of negotiations in the area of climate change, and I really hope that we can reach each other there and make a good broad agreement. Then it's just funny that we don't have to use the same approach when it comes to nature. What matters in the future is that we have some nature and that we safeguard our nature, but there are no broad agreements to be made. And yes, hopefully the Minister will come to the committee for another trip, because there is still a chance that this could be made to land in a sensible and good way for the benefit of nature. It's not suitable for a political battlefield to fight for nature and the green in this way. So I can only say that we are in favour of getting it back to committee, and we also hope that the Minister will consider and look at how a sensible agreement can be reached. As a matter of fact, this is also about how to compensate those who have had their production area picked out, so maybe we can end up with the 37,000 hectares.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153908	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Should I understand that the Socialist rapporteur wants to come up as rapporteur? No, good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609153922	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF, NB and LA), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF, NB and LA), which was rejected. It has been rejected. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154035	I would like to say to the rapporteurs that, since there are not so many Members in the Chamber, when you have short remarks, you can speak from your place if you sit down in the ordinary place. It is clear that rapporteurs will speak from the platform. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Bent Bøgsted It's about the proposal itself. ) First, it applies to the amendments, but Mr. Bent Bøgsted, is the only one who has asked to speak, so Mr. Bent Bøgsted has the floor on the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154058	Thank you for that, President. We must be careful not to go up to the wrong proposal and say something that is not entirely related. All I have to do is point out again in connection with the Flying Station Bill Skrydstrup here from the platform that there has been a very big discussion about how an allowance should be knitted together, how it should be with a red zone of replacement and purchase of houses, and how it should be with a yellow zone of replacement, so that you can get soundproofed. This applies in both red and yellow zones. In this context, I should just like to point out that from the outset we in the Danish People's Party wanted a red zone, an orange zone with a transitional regime and then a yellow zone. Then we couldn't get it through. We had some changes in the red zone, where a little more came in. In this connection, we had some changes in the red zone regarding some occasions. It has also been ensured that matters can be dealt with within the next 10 years. But, of course, we would have liked to have been able to have a smoother transition from the beginning and bring a little more houses into the red zone and with an orange transition zone, where the compensation price was reduced, the further away from the red zone. We just have to admit that we couldn't get into the negotiations. One of the reasons why we stranded in those negotiations was, of course, that the Left was hunted down to close the agreement with the government, and that is so regrettable before we were completely finished and before we had a little more influence on it. However, as the agreement has become, we naturally support the agreement and look forward to keeping an eye on the fact that it will be as it has been agreed. It's causing some problems. The latest thing that's happened is that the neighbors of Skrydstrup are starting to talk about the tanker planes that have to be there. There will be a consultation tomorrow, when the Minister will have to reply to that. And to help the minister, I would just like to say that if there are such major problems with those tanker planes in Skrydstrup, we would like them in Aalborg. We'll make room for them. We're used to big planes. We have the Hercules planes, and it's not too far to fly from Aalborg down to Skrydstrup to refuel. So let's just get them. And I am almost sure that I have the Social Democrat rapporteur in support of the fact that, of course, we are moving them, because if there is to be as much trouble with the tankers as there have been with the others, it is better to move them and avoid that trouble. Then we take them to Aalborg. Just so the Minister is aware that there is a solution and that we would like to help the Minister with that. We are sure that there can be broad support for this, so that the Minister does not get caught, instead of having to go through it all again with criticism of noise nuisances in Skrydstrup. With that promise to help the Minister, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal. We had just hoped that there had been an orange transition zone so that we could have had a slightly more friendly transition instead of the abrupt transition from a large replacement to a smaller replacement to noise insulation. The President has risen, but I still have six minutes left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154434	I simply got up for the reason that it sounded like the rapporteur was finishing, and then I thought it was an opportunity to stretch my legs. It is quite true that there are 61⁄2 minutes left, so I will be happy to sit down again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154441	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154450	That's what I sensed. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154453	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (NB), joined by another minority (EL) and Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt (V) on the division of the bill into two legislative proposals which were rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 3 to the split bill lapsed. The vote will then be taken on amendments to the undivided legislative proposal. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-10, elected by a majority (S, V (with the exception of Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt (V)), DF, RV and KF, SF, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)? It's agreed. Then I hear from the committee that it has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154600	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609154611	Thank you. Before I get off to work too well, I have promised the Radicals to say that they will vote in favour of the bill and, on their own account, I would say that they are particularly pleased with the section on digitisation, which they welcome. There's an expression that says that if something sounds too good to be true, it's often because it's not true, but when we look at this bill, you have to say that I actually think it's an exception, and it has to be understood that this is a bill that contains a lot of positive elements. After all, it is a draft law drawn up on the basis of the political agreement concluded by a great many parties, mostly in the Folketing, on a green housing agreement for 2020. So you can say that it almost sounds too good, but it's actually one can also say that it's better than a cheek egg, because it's more than three things at once. There are actually a lot of good and positive elements in this for our general housing, but also for our climate. It is over 30 billion. kr. for renovation and green solutions, and if we add private investment to what we expect, we will reach at least around 36 billion. kr. in investments in our general housing up to 2026. This means that the Landsbygningsfond invests more than 5 billion annually. kr. Until 2025. It can be said that some would have liked to have seen the framework perhaps larger than the one we have reached. I would like to say that, personally and on the part of the Social Democrats, we are pleased that the agreement and the legislative proposal that lie before us will very quickly bring to an end the waiting list that has been in the Landsbygningsfonden by 12 billion. kr. in 2020 and 4.6 billion. kr. in 2021. What I think is important in this is that we also have a new green track change in the vision, you might say, on our general housing now in the agreement, but also in and for ourselves in the future. This agreement is the beginning of a new and greener way of thinking about renovation and new construction. In fact, I think it would be said in Jutland that it is not so bad. When I say 'we', I think and I mean, of course, funds from the Landsbygningsfonden, because these are funds which the tenants have paid into this fund themselves, so it can be said that this is a return from which the general housing gets a return. You could also say that in these times we are in, this will also have an enormously positive society, so in this way you can say that there are elements of win-win in this proposal. It has been through a negotiation process in which almost all parties have been involved and where the result in itself has only been improved by the fact that everyone has offered constructively. So I would like to say thank you for a good course and a good result. I think this is something we can be satisfied with, and I also believe that it is something the tenants can be happy about. After all, the overall framework laid down must go to building damage and healthy housing, which is most of the more than 30 billion. kr., which must be paid, and it is a matter of providing up-to-date, healthy housing without mold. There is a question of accessibility and funds are expected to be available for around 7,900 homes, which will have to be made available during the period. We have remodeling, common areas, demolition, sustainable pools and digitisation, and then a green guarantee scheme that would like to ensure that we also get some private, external funds into working green. In addition to this, there are many other good elements in this political agreement and this bill. There is a question of training and internships, which is a geographically good distribution of funds, because it is the whole of Denmark that is being taken into account with this agreement. It is new, cheap housing that will come during this period of agreement, and it is also being addressed that we will hopefully be able to create more communities. Then I think that there is a very important thing and an important element in this, and that is that I think the municipalities will welcome with satisfaction that we are now getting a firm agreement on a fixed percentage of basic capital up to 2026. It has been the case in the past that every year the municipalities have had to wait for the municipal agreement to see what the percentage would be. Now we lock it in and make it clear to the municipalities what it means until 2026. I hope and believe that this can contribute to some more general housing projects in the municipalities. As I said, this is a very good legislative proposal, which the Social Democrats are voting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155110	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155117	Thank you. Well, it's always nice to be Santa who distributes money, especially when it's not your own money. So I understand the joy of Mr. Henrik Møller knows that, that is to say, you can be good with money that you should not contribute to. But sir... Henrik Møller confirms that the consumption planned for here for the next 6 years is 30 billion. kr. over six years, i.e. a total of 5 billion. kr. Annual consumption of the Landsbygningsfonden is much higher than in the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden) in the long term? And sir... Henrik Møller therefore confirm that the money being spent here and now will go beyond how much money is available for consumption in the future for the Landsbygningsfonden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155201	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155202	Well, what I can say is that some calculations have been made in relation to this, which shows that this fund that we're talking about is going to go to zero in 2043. And it is clear that the more you put on the • also after 2026 the longer it will be before it goes to zero. But there is, of course, a fairly large guarantee and assurance that there will be a run-back in relation to the out-amortisation of the loans on those that expire. But it is clear that that is also why I mentioned that some people would have liked to see a larger framework. I am personally satisfied that we have chosen a level such as that which lies here. But I also agree that in the long term it will be difficult to keep a level that is so high. This is also a question of clarifying the waiting list that has been in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155247	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155248	It is absolutely true that if you do not spend as much money as Mr. Henrik Møller and the government want to use now if you don't in the future spend 5 billion. kr. every year, then it will go to zero in the year 2042. If you continued to spend 5 billion. kr. Every year, even after 2026, it would never go to zero. So it is an unsustainable consumption that is now being set up, which means that in the future you will have less money to spend. And what do you spend the money on? They are spent on ordinary renovations, so that in the future you have less money for extraordinary renovations. - Sir... Henrik Møller, forgive me for what's true? But can I have Mr. Henrik Møller to say it's true?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155334	What I can at least say is that there has been a huge hump on the waiting list compared to some of these major renovation projects that have been waiting for funds. That is why, in the short term, we are spending something equal to 16-18 billion. kr. This means that when we look for 2021, we are down to a level of around 2.2 billion. kr. Compared to this, but that's where we've got this waiting list settled. And there is the offer, of course, that this amount will help to prevent these waiting lists in the future. So that is the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155407	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155409	It is always a good thing when a Social Democratic housing rapporteur, just like stating that the money in the Landsbygningsfonden, is the renter's money, because there has been some prehistoric history where there have been ministers, including from a Social Democratic government that went in and took money from the Landsbygningsfonden. So it is nice to have such statements chiseled in stone here today at today's discussion of a proposal on the Landsbygningsfonden. I'd like to hear about this 30 billion. kr. I am one of those who think that the overall framework should be larger. I have to admit that. Because we are faced with the fact that once again a queue can be created in the Landsbygningsfond to get approved projects and that this can happen from 2022, and I think that is a shame. I would really like to hear from the Social Democratic Housing Rapporteur about these 30 billion. kr. is a larger amount than what the Social Democratic Party had planned before the Corona crisis, i.e. whether the original intention of the negotiations was to have a framework that was less than 30 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155513	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155515	It's really looking backwards compared to what you would have done if the world had looked different. I think that I will deal with the fact that it looks like it is now, and I think it should be welcomed that it is probably the situation that the Corona crisis has caused, that the winding-up of the waiting list, I think in time, will do so more quickly than one might have done if we had not experienced the situation that is now here. But I find it difficult to answer whether the frame would have been here. That is the framework that is now in place, and that is what I think we should deal with. We shall be delighted about this. And I would like to repeat that the Landsbygningsfonden funds are some which the tenants have paid up themselves, and that is why their money is actually coming back to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155559	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155601	Thank you for the commitment that there will not be a Mogen Lykketoft or another minister in the future and start taking the renter's money. Well, well, just when the corona crisis started, we were ready to do some housing negotiations. I assume that the Social Democrats had thought about what they wanted with those negotiations and what the level was supposed to be. However, I may have to ask the Minister for Housing if it is true that the Social Democracy had a lower ambition than 30 billion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155626	That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155627	But that's what I'd recommend, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155632	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155636	Thank you. If we agree that we can confirm that the 5 billion. kr. I think we can agree that there is not enough money in the Landsby Foundation. Then I would like to ask: why is it that you choose to spend so much money this year, i.e. the 12 billion? kr. that you'd like to use this year? Is there a need for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155658	Yeah, I don't know, well, we've had a discussion about §5 paragraph. 2, where there were doomsday prophecies about how this whole industry would suffer from the actions that were made. And there you can just say that with this we go in and support and stimulate an industry, and one of the things that has actually been discussed in the negotiations is that we must of course also be aware of not getting into a situation where we cannot create the manpower that is needed and make an overheating around this. However, as the situation now stands, this is also a process in which we are helping to ensure that there are some jobs and that some growth is being created in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155742	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155743	Yes, and that is what is interesting, because I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has any figures to confirm that there is high unemployment among, for example. carpenters or masons that make it necessary to advance these things. Well, the numbers I've been looking at don't indicate that. The reality that I hear when I talk to them from out there is that it is almost impossible to find a craftsman; they are fully booked up for a long time to come. So by not spreading this out, you risk creating a bottleneck problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155807	But it's also because there are several elements in this, understood in the sense that it's not the case that all these works are settled immediately, but we get a process started where it's for advisors, for drawers, for some of the technical part, that we initially secure some capital. But I'm just saying again that there was in the negotiations, in the agreement on this, that it's clear that we're looking at how it develops in this industry. We are not interested in creating bottleneck problems or in not being able to recruit, so we will follow that closely. But we believe that there is a good boost in securing employment in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155847	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609155900	Thank you. With the Green Housing Agreement, we help to hold hands under Danish jobs and Danish economy. The extraordinary increase in the Landsbygningsfonden investment framework is central to this process of dismantling the waiting list from this year onwards, but also the dismantling of the waiting list until next year. At the same time, a framework has been set for renovation activities up to 2026 so that there will be greater calm on the general sector, and we have supported the fact that no new tasks should be included on the waiting list if they cannot be implemented realistically within three years. We do not believe that it makes sense for the local democracy to spend time and effort on projects that are unrealistic in the future. Therefore, the support for the 3 years. It has been essential that with the Energy Renovation Agreement we ensured indoor climate and healthier housing for the residents, just as more housing with higher availability will mean something for the many who need it. I do not want to hide the fact that it has been absolutely crucial for the Left that the agreement contributes to the fact that more Danes still have a job to stand up to, not only today, but also next year, and that young people can get an education in construction if that is the dream. This is supported by the agreement and that is why we have pressed for it. But at the same time as this agreement contributes jobs and training places, it is surprising that towards 2030 the government, with the recently adopted legislation on section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2 - as the Socialist rapporteur has just pointed out, without the slightest concern, thousands of jobs are being lost in the construction industry. That doesn't make any sense to the Left. We have worked to ensure that the government, together with the Left and the other bourgeois parties, should find another way to secure the tenants without it costing jobs, but the government has not been interested in that. So the reality is that while jobs are being secured with one hand, the government is taking away jobs with the other. However, with the agreement for the Landsbygningsfond, we are fortunately securing some of the jobs that are going to disappear and we are creating new ones. It has been important here that it is all Denmark that benefits from the jobs. At the same time, we want it to be green where it makes sense, and it does so in construction and in the general sector, where energy renovations not only contribute positively to reducing the amount of energy used, but also contribute to healthier housing and better indoor climate. It is good for health and well-being, children and adults, and the demand from the general sector is high. In addition, we are pleased that many more elderly people and people with disabilities can look forward to a home adapted to their needs. It has been important to secure funds not only for renovation, but also for accessibility. It has also been important for the Left that the renter's money is spent wisely, wisely and efficiently. That is why we are going to follow that some of the challenges facing the Landsbygningsfonden are being addressed. Reports from both Deloitte and McKinsey state that today we have a support system with a level of complexity that is difficult to act in for both resident democracy and smaller housing organisations and municipalities, and this can increase costs unnecessarily much and lead to a distortion in the allocation of funds. There's room for improvement. We want greater transparency and simplification. There is also a need to help digitise on the way in housing associations, again to create transparency, facilitate work on development plans and operations, allow for follow-up and registration and documentation of green actions. We should focus politically on this, because it is ultimately about the tenants' money being spent wisely. All in all, it is a sensible agreement that contributes to better housing conditions for residents, to keeping our hands on jobs in construction and to the green conversion, although we would have liked that part to have filled more. Some of the measures presented by the government on 1 May have been taken out and reused by the government subsequently in connection with the climate negotiations, but leave it at that. After all, it is a question of achieving overall targets for the climate objectives, including in the area of construction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160325	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160330	It is of course interesting that Mrs Heidi Bank's speech touches on the fact that the existing eligibility criteria do not use the money wisely and that we therefore need to have some new eligibility criteria so that we use the money wisely in the future. And yet this bill, with the support of the Left, decides that we should distribute no less than 18.4 billion. kr. in accordance with the existing eligibility criteria, which therefore do not contain the thought that should be given to the eligibility criteria, which is why the same legislative proposal will also ensure that some thought is taken into account in the future. But here and now it is decided to spend 18.4 billion. kr. I don't think so. Why does the Left support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160418	Well, if the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance has read the two reports, then it is indeed the case that there are already many areas where there are positive developments, but there are also some areas where it needs to be better done. Compared to the 18.4 billion. kr. If we are talking about projects which have already been approved and where we know that we have a market, then I could hear that questions have been asked before we know that there is a demand from a large number of industries after we get our hands on some jobs. So it is a weighting, but we clearly think that we should be more skilful about using the money paid by the tenants with care, also in relation to this transparency, so that there is no doubt that the way it is done by one employee is the same as the way it is done by another employee, because that is one of the criticisms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160509	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160511	We should never give out either 1 or 18.4 billion. kr. I don't care because there's a business that wants the money. We don't have to do that. And if you look at the figures of unemployment or lack of unemployment in the construction industry, then in April 2020 there was 25 per cent. more job vacancies in the construction industry than in April 2019. It's not kr. without any thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160550	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160551	Frankly, I think that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is putting words into my mouth. It is the case that if the rapporteur had read the two reports, the rapporteur would have known what this criticism is all about. This criticism is based on the fact that, for example, in the treatment between employees is a lack of transparency, but that is not the same as the fact that there is no treatment that can be quite reasonable, and that is also what the reports show. It is not the case that questions are raised as to whether the individual employee does it properly. It is simply a question of the lack of transparency and that it should be the case that you have the impression that things are going on the same way, whether it is one or the other employee who is doing the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160628	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160631	I would like to sign that the Left Housing Rapporteur says that it is the renter's money, because it is always nice to establish what the economy is like around the Landsbygningsfonden and it is the renter's money. There is then the possibility that a debt may be established during periods; there are then other times when you have money in the Landsbygningsfonden. I would like to sign that the Left was helping to put pressure on the government to put an end to this refurbishing queue and that the Left's housing rapporteur was already out to say at the beginning of April that the Left was prepared to wind up the queue and that former ministers and the Left's President have been out and, like supporters, that this queue should be wound up as soon as possible. It is always interesting when there are some political processes that succeed, and it has to be said here that during April we had a political majority outside the government, which in turn said as a start to these negotiations that they would abolish the queue in the Landsbygningsfonden. It is always exciting to see when it succeeds, and so it succeeds. I think that is very good and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160736	Well, thank you. After all, I think that it has been a good course of negotiations in which there has been a willingness among the parties to bow down a little on some points. Because it is not a secret that we have not all got exactly what we would like to have on all points, but we have come to the end of an agreement that we can all see ourselves in. This will benefit the tenants, and it will also hold hands in the field of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160805	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160810	It is because I have now heard several of the rapporteurs say that this is the tenants' money, but in reality it is the tenants' money that the politicians decide, because they decide when to spend and how many to spend. So I would like to know what the basic position of the Left is. Does the Left believe that this Landsbygningsfond should be self-financing, so that it also finances new buildings, or should one continue to make so many demands that the fund does not have the opportunity to build up equity so that it can finance new buildings as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160836	It can be said that the agreement does indeed include the fact that we will be looking at more closely in relation to, among other things, the situation. Some more new construction. And we haven't settled yet on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160849	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160852	No, because I am quite sure that in the past it has been the position of the Left that the Landsbygningsfonden should be in this way self-financing and should be able to finance new construction. So it is interesting if the Left has changed its position on it and is drawn in an even more socialist direction too on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160909	In other words, one of the things that we have got into the agreement is that you are not bound by that part. It's okay to look into something, but we don't want to be bound by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160920	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609160934	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, the implementation of the agreement reached by a majority in the Folketing on the renovation framework of the Landsbygningsfonden, and it then concerns the increase in the investment framework for 2020. It is an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party are very happy to be part of. There are two things that have been important to us in the negotiations. One thing has been about accessibility for the elderly and disabled, and we are very pleased that 4.6 billion is now being allocated. kr. For that. It is the case that, unfortunately, we humans do not get younger, and when we age, it is also very nice that there is a housing stock that can accommodate us when the legs and everything else fail. The second, which we are very pleased with in the Danish People's Party, is that a framework of DKK 30 million has been set aside. for new construction on the Danish small islands. It is because the Association of Danish Small Islands had approached me and others on the islands that they were really sorry that they could not really get general housing for their islands, and that is why we have set aside 30 million. kr. In fact, the only way to settle on an island is either to buy a house or to rent in, and the fact that you have to buy a house prevents many from moving to an island, because if you are not happy to live on that island, you are bound, because it is not the easiest place in Denmark either to sell a house again. So this is actually a way for you to try the island life off without committing too long, so we're really happy about that. In the Danish People's Party a few months ago, we pressed for the Minister to call for negotiations so that we could get the already pre-approved projects to work so that the wheels could get going again. We are very pleased that the Minister has called for negotiations, and we are also very pleased that neither the Minister nor any of the other parties have delayed the negotiations. They were carried out quickly and efficiently, and I think that we all got a good impression on the negotiations, and I really think that both the outcome and the process were sober all the way through, so I would like to thank all the other parties for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609161205	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609161215	Thank you. Healthy and good housing is an important focus area for SF, and it is a separate goal to maintain the general housing sector. During my time as housing rapporteur, I have participated in a great many meetings with and about the general housing sector and, in this context, also listened to the need to meet the many large and small renovation needs which assumed support from the Landsbygningsfonden. And I have also noted that some of the interventions are quite urgent. I am therefore pleased that an agreement on the use of the Fund addresses precisely the many projects which have long been waiting to be launched. By the end of 2021, we can look forward to the completion of all the pending projects. This law is an emergency law for the sole purpose of projects for the first 12 billion. kr. can be initiated now. It makes really good sense in more than one sense. Corona has put Denmark and the rest of the world at a standstill in many ways, and it therefore makes great sense that we are using the time right now to initiate activities that can help get the wheels going again. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Housing for putting turbo on the negotiations on the Landsbygningsfonden funds so that it is possible to boost renovations already this year. It makes really good sense. In this context, I would also like to thank my fellow Members for a very good course of negotiations. We can always discuss whether there is enough money for renovations, and we have had that discussion too. We have landed a total of just over 30 billion. kr., and it can cover a number of important bets. I would therefore like to stress in particular that the government also took the initiative to ensure that discussions on the Fund could take place in cooperation with the Ministry of Climate Affairs. I think it is crucial that we think about the green agenda where it makes sense and that the government gives priority to working across resort areas. In SF we actually believe that it gives some better results when we work across. It has also been achieved as a consequence, for example, that: the replacement of oil and gas pine in general housing are themes which are now to be discussed in the climate negotiations. In the same way, it has been agreed that all bets will be screened for the possibility that you can prioritise energy renovations when you still have scaffolding up. In general, energy renovations have been given a very high priority in the agreement on support from the Landsbygningsfonden. Finally, I would like to point out that the agreement also means that efforts can now finally be set in motion to increase accessibility in general housing. Accessibility is very important for the possibility that both elderly and disabled citizens can choose more for themselves where they want to live, and that is a distinctly very good goal. The SF shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609161512	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609161530	Thank you. After all, this is a relatively small bill compared to the total housing contract, which has been concluded a six-year agreement. This line is being closed in the Landsbygningsfonden and where we are today discussing a bill relating to the 12.1 billion. kr. for renovation projects that can be initiated as soon as this bill has been adopted. In the Enhedslisten, we have been fighting for a long time for that line to be settled. There are 453 projects relating to 72,000 general dwellings, which now have the prospect of being renovated. And it's joyful. There are actually residents in the housing associations who have been on the waiting lists 5 and 10 years, because there is this system of being overtaken on the waiting list. This helps to undermine the confidence that something will happen in your home association. If, like a section meeting, you have decided that you will accept a renovation, and you may at the same time have accepted that there should be a higher rent, and that you can then see that you are a number in the Landsbygningsfonden, and that there are others who overtake one year after year, then it is undermining confidence in the system that is around paying money to the Landsbygningfonden. So it is gratifying that we are now having the whole queue settled. After all, this agreement provides employment, and I am, in effect, pleased that we are ensuring that there are 14 per cent. This is the first time that we have been able to make progress in the field of education and training. Some people have calculated that 3 400 apprenticeships are urgently needed for young people. The housing agreement here is called a green housing agreement, but it is quite limited what can be said for sure. What we saw was that on 1 May the Social Democratic Party came up with a proposal that included 50,000 tonnes of oil, including some oil guys that the tenants had to pay for themselves. Fortunately, we got that out of the final agreement. What we have then landed on is actually something that, if you have to make it up with certainty, is not a very green deal. Where the potential lies, a green screening of the projects that are in the queue is now needed, and this allows you to upgrade the content to something more contemporary. If you are in the situation that there are low prices when you have to do the work, then the lower cost can be used to improve the projects. It is quite well described in Annex 57 during the negotiations, but it is not very well described here in the draft law. So it is essential, in the course of the committee procedure, to clarify how it should be understood in Annex 57 when it comes to implementing the law proposed here. Because a restriction has been introduced which I do not think is appropriate. It should not be too technical here, but there is no reason to restrict the greenness of a screened project. If we look back to April, it has been special to see that in this way there was a majority outside the government, who was prepared to wind up this queue, and I have, as such, helped to poke to the government and say whether we should not have a quick debate which only concerns the queue, so that we can have it settled as soon as possible, then we can take the rest of the housing negotiations afterwards. That did not happen, but it happened that we ended up with the conclusion that the whole queue is being settled. I would like to thank those organisations which have helped to put pressure on them. It is not only the parties in the Folketing, it is also the housing companies' Land Organisation. These are the housing associations on the waiting list. These are Denmark's Handicap Organisations, the Elders Case, the BAT Cartel, the Arkitektforeningen, the Danish Business, Danish Construction and many more. It has been important that some have stood outside Christiansborg's walls and pointed out that here was a renovation which should be set in motion in these coronatides and which could come about very quickly. If you look at the overall housing agreement, we have some criticisms. There is thus a risk that a refurbishing queue will occur again. If you look at the housing social effort, it should be given priority over what is happening now. We will then have to discuss these matters more closely in a legislative proposal that comes after the summer break. We think it is positive that we should now look at the New Construction Fund and promote that it can secure cheaper housing in the past than has been planned. This is something that we can influence by being part of this agreement. And that's why Enhedslisten has joined us. We will have more accessibility than was planned at the start of the negotiations. We also think this is very important. We are faced with an ageing population where a fairly large proportion of people live in the general sector and where it is reasonable that you can stay in the same housing association, even if you may lose some of your ability or your spouse loses some of your ability. So the issue of ensuring accessibility in general housing is incredibly important. So overall, we are satisfied that we are moving forward and that we now have the prospect of adopting this bill and having the renovation queue completed as soon as possible, in other words within two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162041	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162044	I understand that if you are an ultrasocialist like Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, so delighted to be able to distribute 18.4 billion. kr. in 2020 and 2021 after some very loose award criteria. And that's what I'm gonna do, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is also allowed to bask in, but at some point we will also enter 2022 and 2023, and there Mr. So Søren Egge Rasmussen agreed that the criteria need to be tightened up so that you do not give to as many projects as you do in 2020 and 2021. - Sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen tells us why it is very important that from 2022 and 2023 and onwards you have some much tighter award criteria than those used in 2020 and 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162131	I do not know if I am an ultra-socialist, but I am, in fact, an ordinary resident of a general housing organisation, and I am aware of the processes that are going on out there and know how destructive it is if approved renovation projects are to be on the waiting list for many years. It is, in fact, essential to clean up, and that is what we are doing here. And then we have the possibility that we go in and do this green screening, which means that it doesn't just stay according to the old rules. It will thus be something that will be able to be climate-proof with the green screening that is now taking place and where the guidelines for this are being drawn up. So creating confidence in the entire Landsbygningsfonden and the economy around it is essential, as it is difficult to understand that when you live in a housing association and have finished paying out the loans, you continue to pay in the same amount and two thirds go to the Landsbygningsfonden, and one third go to the local dispositionsfunds with which you can then seek funds. It is a system that is a little difficult to understand for many people in Denmark. So it is important that there is some confidence about the Landsbygningsfonden, and I think we are helping to create that by winding up the queue. So I feel good about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162243	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162245	Yeah, that's fine, but that's not what I asked. After all, that agreement is also about the fact that from the future allocations after 2020 and 2021, the criteria for when to get money from the Landsbygningsfonden for its renovation projects are being tightened up, and then I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to explain why it is very good to tighten up, so as not to give as much funding from the Landsbygningsfonden in the period from 2022 onwards, as is now being done in 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162320	It is, of course, as I have said twice, because there is a queue that we would like to wind up. It's kind of simple. We need to clean up and we need to put an end to the queue, and then it is very unnatural that guidelines on what we are supporting over time should be changed. And there has always been a political impact on the agreements on the Landsbygningsfonden and the 6-year agreement. At times, accessibility is a priority, sometimes energy is a priority, and I think that, in the future, it will be a climate concern that will fill more and more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162350	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162407	Thank you for the floor. In May, we reached a political agreement which, first and foremost, releases some 18 billion. kr. already queued to be used for the renovation of general homes. This is an important and necessary agreement. There is no doubt that we were pushing for that agreement, nor should there be any doubt that we would have liked to have seen a two-part agreement so that we would not have to tie ourselves to a single pool until 2026. We would also have liked to see a better and longer dialogue on housing social funding. Having said that, we are, on the other hand, very pleased that the current renovation queue is now being dismantled for the benefit of the tenants first and foremost. That is not right, for example. to live with harmful consequences for health, and this must, of course, be corrected, just as the agreement focuses on accessibility and energy efficiency improvements. The agreement also provides a welcome boost to the corona-bound economy. It provides many jobs and does not drain the treasury. These are the kinds of solutions that make us happy in the current difficult economic crisis. With the agreement, money will also benefit the climate and it has been a top priority for the Conservative People's Party. We are very pleased that private green players will now also play a crucial role. The total amount of energy renovations will hopefully be much greater than otherwise. In the committee's work, I would just like to check whether the Landsbygningsfonden is now ready for new solutions, because there are skilled and innovative private actors who are experiencing a forehead against the wall. However, let me conclude by saying that Conservatives were included in the 2014 agreement and we would very much like to be so now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162543	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162546	In the general housing sector, a distinction is made between ordinary renovations and extraordinary renovations. And what's the idea behind these grants from the Landsbygningfond for renovations in general housing companies is that they have to go to the extraordinary renovations. Then you've figured out that the way you distribute the money is a little too loose. There are also some ordinary renovations here, which the residents should properly pay for themselves out there, which is why it has to be changed in the future. But it has just been decided, and the Conservative People's Party has also decided that we should have a party first and fire 18.4 billion. kr. to the whole bathroom; it is things and things that have both received ordinary and extraordinary renovations according to the old very loose criteria. This means, of course, that in the future there is not so much money for extraordinary renovations, because money is now being spent on ordinary renovations. Is it good conservative policy just to think short-sightedly, saying that it is fun to spend money now, but we care about the future tomorrow?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162650	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that we are in a very extraordinary situation. It is certainly conservative policy to ensure that there are also jobs in the short term. It is certainly also conservative policy to ensure that people live in decent housing. And it is certainly conservative policy to take due care, as it is right now, to ensure that, in the greatest crisis we will hopefully ever face, we actually hold our hands under the Danish economy. We can do that this way. This does not mean, of course, that we should just look at the short-term, but we do not. We're looking at an agreement up to and including 2026.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162728	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162729	What exactly is this crisis for the construction industry in Denmark at the moment? Well, there's 25%. more job announcements in April 2020 than in April 2019. What kind of crisis is the Conservative People's Party talking about? There are no economists who can see that there is a crisis for the construction industry in Denmark. How does the Conservative People's Party see a crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162751	There's a big crisis. I think most people will certainly agree with me on that. After all, the crisis is not just about craftsmen, and certainly not about craftsmen exclusively for the Landsbygningsfonden. There are, after all, plenty of other jobs at stake compared to the 18.4 billion. kr. There are architects who are advisors of project management. After all, we also need to push all this forward, which is why it will of course be an agreement that will mean more jobs not only in the craft sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162817	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162825	Thank you. I'll be brief. This is a bad deal, and we cannot support it in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162834	Yeah, it was short. There are also no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609162850	Thank you. It is very important to make it clear that the Landsbygningsfonden is not there just to change windows, have upwells painted or change linoleum in common areas. This kind of thing must be financed by the residents of the general housing associations themselves. The Landsbygningsfonden funds for renovation projects in the general housing associations are intended for exceptional renovation projects. It is, for example, if it is a matter of building sloppy and it is not to be expected that the residents of a particular non-profit-making association can finance, that the conditions of the building are restored, that the building is cleared away, etc. It is if a general residential area has developed very unfortunately with a very unfortunate housing mix, where you have to do a 15-minute lift project to get this non-profit residential area back up again. These are extraordinary renovation efforts in general residential areas. A practice had developed in which the Landsbygningsfonden, which is largely governed by the general housing associations themselves, too much agreed to ordinary renovation efforts so that the residents could avoid paying and instead it was the Landsbygningfonden that had to pay. Because they knew that practice was there, analyses were initiated to find out where the boundary between an ordinary renovation and an extraordinary renovation really lies. That analysis was completed under this government and it quite rightly pointed out that this is simply not good enough, the criteria for granting aid from the Landsbygningsfonden are simply too loose. Therefore, the government has proposed and a majority of parties in this agreement accepted that the allocation of funds from the Landsbygningsfonden for renovation projects in the general housing associations should be tightened up but only for the future. First, we're gonna have a party for 18.4 billion. kr. with the old poor criteria for granting aid, where support is also given to a number of projects which are not the character of extraordinary renovation projects, but just because they have now come to power and then it is fun to spend money. There are also some who have helped you in the election campaign, and they must also have some help back, that is, everything that is at stake, when we now have a resident movement and a non-profit sector and a social democracy and a left wing in Denmark who, like, sleep with each other. They say: You help us, and then we help you in return; you help us in the election campaigns, and in return you get more money from the Landsbygningsfonden than we really think is wise. That is how it works, and that is what we see today. And I am surprised that parties such as the Left and the Conservatives think they will help the Social Democrats to reward their supporters in the election campaign, but that is what they are doing. The result of this is that in the future there will not be as much money for the extraordinary renovation projects as if the money had been spent wisely from the start. Because in 2020 and 2021 support is now being granted for more ordinary renovation projects, in the years 2022 and beyond, there is less money available to support extraordinary renovation projects. In other words, if problems arise with entire residential areas which are socially heavily burdened and need a 15-minute lift project supported by the Landsbygningsfonden, then there is not as much money for it. If we were to find out in the future that there is a building that has been constructed quite wrongly and with major problems in the construction, which means that we have to spend very large millions of dollars on repairing it, then there will not be as much money for it because we are now choosing to spend it on relatively ordinary renovation projects via the 18.4 billion. kr. That's why the Liberal Alliance isn't in this deal. And that is also why we are not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163326	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163329	Well, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance's housing rapporteur for not being included in the agreement, because then we shall be spared the negative influence that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had as the Minister for Housing, in the general sector. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen has something that indicates that some people have been given something to have certain opinions, so frankly I think he should be more specific. I have received nothing from the housing movement during the election campaign and nothing has been given back, but the policy of Enhedslisten has been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163407	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163408	Anyway, the Liberal Alliance isn't part of this deal. We could have been, we could have just stayed at the table, but we wouldn't be able to get any of what we stand for done. The agreement that has been made goes against what we stand for, so of course we should not be there. But I cannot confirm that my presence in the Ministry of Housing has not influenced what Enhedslisten has now agreed to. For the analysis that shows that the current award criteria are far too loose, so Enhedslisten has now decided that you want to tighten up, I have been involved in initiating as Minister for Housing. That is also why I am asking how Enhedslisten actually feels about the work that I started and which the Ministry of Finance started then, that if we should now be able to control whether the award criteria are proper, it is now Enhedslisten that ensures that we vote through, so that in future we keep more money than we do in the present.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163500	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163502	I noted that those assumptions that the housing movement should have supported certain politicians, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is not realising, so it's just some loose claims that you throw into the Parliament hall. I think it is far below the level of what can be said from a platform. You have to prove such claims instead of just throwing them out like some filth. It is simply below the standard that should be in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163528	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163529	So is the claim from the Enhedslisten simply that there is no link between the general housing movement in Denmark and the parties of the left? Well, there simply isn't; the first ones aren't helping the others, and the others aren't helping the first. There is simply no connection there. It is used that I have nothing on the platform today, which, like, documents it firmly. So, it is spectacular if Enhedslisten will deny that there is this link between the left and the general housing movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163600	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163604	Thank you. I just could not help commenting because the rapporteur makes it sound as if in politics it is not about the solutions and the task, but only about obtaining votes. At least that's kind of how I heard it. That is why I would like to know whether, when there is anything at stake other than politics, one could look at the task itself as well and whether it is not very reasonable and that it may have been for that reason, among other things. Conservatives are involved in such a solution in this really good deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163635	This is not a very good agreement, nor is it a good agreement from the point of view of the Conservative People's Party, but it is one of those agreements in which the Conservative People's Party thinks: we should be there because we want to be everywhere. But that is not a good conservative policy, what is being done here. This is seen in the agreement itself, where the decision to tighten up the award criteria for aid from the Landsbygningsfonden is completely ignored, with 18.4 billion being distributed. kr. Immediately after some award criteria which the agreement itself recognises are far too loose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163710	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163712	Of course, it is always best to interpret one's own policy instead of others doing so. There is no doubt about that. But the rapporteur does not think that it is the case that, when you are part of an agreement, you are necessarily only in favour of helping others or obtaining votes. I guess it's about the fact that you actually think you have to do something in a very extraordinary situation that Denmark is in right now. And right here you find some money that doesn't drain the tax box, so it's a tiny bit weird that the Liberal Alliance doesn't see the light there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163746	This is draining the tax coffers for 18.4 billion. DKK, which could have been used for better purposes in the future, is intended for purposes where there is an extraordinary challenge that needs to be addressed with some money from the Landsbygningsfonden. Now they are being used on projects which, in part, have a rather ordinary character and distribute them according to some old criteria, which, at the same time, are acknowledged to be wrong and too loose, which is why we decide that we are having a party for the 18.4 billion. kr. Now, but that in the future you have to tighten up. And then there is no crisis in the construction industry. It is quite wrong that there is a crisis in the construction industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163825	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteurs and the last to speak is the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609163836	Thank you. Thank you very much for the positive reception of this bill and also a very great thank you to all the parties........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think that in itself is an important point. I am, of course, pleased that we are now creating the largest and most green investment framework in the general housing sector ever. This is for the benefit of the residents, for the green transition and for the Danish economy. And then it will ensure more healthy and up-to-date housing. I am thinking in particular of February, when I was in Kruså and visited Charlotte and her son, who lived in a common parcel house in Kruså, where there was mold. You could smell the moisture in this 50-year-old building. Her son had become ill, and when he had toymates visiting, they got hurt in the head by being inside that house. This is not the way we want the general housing sector to work. We cannot be aware of this, and we cannot afford to treat the tenants in this way when there are some housing organisations which cannot necessarily finance the large and far-reaching renovations. Now there is help on the way to Charlotte and her son and 150,000 other tenants in the general housing sector in the first place and probably a similar number over the years as a result of this agreement. It is a broad majority in the Folketing that has taken responsibility and has said that now we are helping the general residents who have patiently waited for their homes to be renovated. We also help the Danish economy with the accelerated investments by stimulating the construction industry, which is affected by the negative effects of the corona crisis. The dismantling of the waiting list will contribute to the recovery of the Danish economy and ensure employment in the wake of the corona crisis. We will also have more young people trained. With the agreement, we have ensured that one in seven of those who have to work on the renovation tasks will be apprentices. I am pleased that more people are now being given the opportunity to get an internship and therefore also a vocational training course. We must also do something here that is both green and sustainable. We are going through all the projects in a two-part screening process, where we first carry out an immediate screening of the projects launched this year, and then we do a deeper screening of the third of the projects which will be launched next year. This has been done at the same time, because we want to speed up much of the construction work as quickly as possible, and they are also dealt with under an urgent procedure. In addition, the bill includes 50 million. kr. kr. This year and 50 million. kr. during the period for the digitalisation of the general building and the general renovation efforts. It is a smaller part of the pool that is now being brought forward and will be included in the remaining contractual period. It's gonna be covered by this bill. I note that the legislative proposal which will translate the rest of the investment framework over the period 2021-2026, as well as a number of other initiatives provided for in the agreement, will be submitted for consultation for submission in October of this year. With that, I would just like to say thank you once again. I think it has been a good and fast process, and I think that everyone around the table will feel that they have got the impression on it. Without having to specify who has been involved in what, I think it has been a process that has made the bill better and made it possible that, overall, we have a very good agreement that is broadly based and I think that is an independent point here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164225	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164229	It is a legislative proposal which translates the money to be allocated by 2020, that is to say the 12 billion. kr. But this is the result of an agreement that is about 30 billion. kr. I'd like to know if the Minister of Housing can't confirm that it's spending 30 billion dollars. kr. over six years, an average of 5 billion. kr. per year, is not a consumption that can be maintained after 2026. That's where it's gonna have to go down significantly. And I want to know if the Minister for Housing can not think a little over and say a few words about this: making agreements which mean that we are spending much more money here and now than we can do in the future. The fact that you spend so much money here and now means that you have to spend less money in the future. And this may sometimes indicate that there are some politicians who just think short-sightedly of their own legacy and their own careers, etc. and do not think so much about how we conduct a policy that is long-term sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164337	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164339	Well, I would like to start by apologising to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for asking a question which has not been submitted. Perhaps I imagine that the rapporteur had hoped to have it at first reading. I have had the opportunity to read it myself, and that is why I am putting the rapporteur in a rather unfair situation. But the point is that if you maintain this renovation framework, only on renovations, all remaining years up to 2050, then there can be a positive fortune if you assume that you do not continue the initiatives that are in the parallel society package, for example, after 2030, or you do not continue some of the other initiatives that can burden the economy. So it will be a choice in the future, for example, to continue to receive 5 billion. kr. for renovations per year, or for example, whether you want to continue housing social bets and other bets. It should only be borne in mind that renovations go much further per year. billions, because a large part of it comes back, whereas the situation is different with, for example, housing social contributions. Once that money has been paid out as wages, none of it will come back at a later date, and there is therefore a difference in how it is calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164444	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164446	Well, there is no doubt that in this society we have had a need to do something about parallel communities in residential areas, and a broad agreement has been reached on this. I think it's a little artificial for the Minister of Housing to say that if we just take out these kinds of bets, we'd be able to spend 5 billion. kr. Every year in the future. Expects the Minister for Housing that all problems with ghetto areas and parallel communities etc. will be solved so that there is no need to spend more money on them? I mean, have I really been so effective a housing minister that no money at all will be spent on parallel societies and ghettos in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164528	We must at least be able to keep each other up in this Chamber when we adopt an agreement with Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen as Minister, where there are no ghettos in 2030, one can at least hope that one can get there when it is the headline of a broad political agreement... a long process, many ministries involved... and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is the head of that deal. Now he's telling me he doesn't believe that anyway. It's early to renounce on it. It's a deal that's not more than two years old. I hope, and I believe that there is a good probability that among the 15 areas on that list, many of them will not be ghettos by 2030, and that money will be better spent on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164605	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164621	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609164703	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the organisers who have raised the citizens' proposal to ensure mourning leave for parents who lose a child under the age of 18 and also to thank the members of parliament who have chosen to table the proposal as a resolution. In my view, it is an expression of a healthy and democratic culture that today we are going to discuss precisely the grief leave issue which is of great concern to many in this Parliament and an issue which, unfortunately, is of great concern to many people. With this resolution, a large group of citizens have proposed giving parents the right to six months' mourning leave if they lose a child between the ages of 0 and 18. The authors stress that parents need peace to process their grief without having to be forced into job testing or internship. In addition, it is emphasised that grief takes time. I think we all agree that losing a child must be completely, completely unbearable, whether the child is an infant or a teenager. I therefore have the greatest sympathy for the proposers' wish that there should be equal rights for parents, whether they lose an infant or a 17-year-old child. So I fully agree with the motives of the authors of the motion for a resolution. We in the government are therefore also already looking at the possibility of giving parents who lose children under the age of 18 the same rights as parents who today lose very young children. It will equalise all parents in the unhappy situation of losing a child under the age of 18 and guaranteeing them 14 weeks of maternity leave with the right to maternity benefit. This proposal will be included by the government in the priorities of the 2021 Finance Law negotiations. In this way we will work to find funding for the proposal. I also propose, against this background and in view of the fact that today we are discussing this motion for a resolution, that the parties of the Folketing give each other a commitment to address the issue of grief leave when we are negotiating a financial agreement for 2021 in the autumn. Even before then, the government will invite the parties of the Folketing to discuss how we can do it and organise it in the most appropriate way. All of this can be ensured by the Parliament's Employment Committee by agreeing in committee that the parties will give priority to the financing of 14 weeks of maternity leave with the right to maternity benefit for parents who lose a child under the age of 18, precisely at the time of the financial negotiations. Against this background, the government cannot support the specific resolution that has been tabled, but we basically support the proposal to extend the grief leave to parents who lose a child, whether it is an infant or 17 years old. We will continue to work on this and we will ask the parties of the Folketing to help the government to continue working on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165010	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165014	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to ask the Minister why the Minister thinks that we should wait until the financial negotiations to make this proposal or something like this happen. Why doesn't the Minister just call for political negotiations before the summer recess? I am convinced that there is a majority in the Folketing who would like to look at making a better arrangement for grief leave, so why do we have to wait until the budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165041	I don't think we have to. However, as the rapporteur may have remarked, I also said that we will soon be calling Parliament's parties to discuss it. The reason I led it up to the financial law negotiations was that we also need to find some funding for this proposal. I agree with Mr. Morten Dahlin in, and I also listen to and see that there is a very broad majority who basically think that it is right and fair and the best way to deal with these parents who come into this unfortunate situation, that we equate parents, so that the opportunity for grief leave that one has today when one loses an infant also applies if the child is a teenager or younger or similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165124	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165127	The Minister will convene discussions shortly. Can the Minister set a precise date? Is it before the summer vacation? Is this before the opening of the Danish Parliament? When's the last time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165139	I cannot set a precise date at present, and most of all I cannot, because I do not know what the rapporteur's calendar up to the end of the Danish Parliament on 26 June looks like. The Ministry of Employment and mine look extremely tight, among other things. because of many of the covid-19 actions that are taking place right now, but we would very much like to call the parties of the Danish Parliament for discussions on how to pick up on this, and if possible also sooner than later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165214	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165217	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is very good that the Minister is saying that it should be included in the negotiations in the Finance Act, but the Minister knows that there are a number of parties that are probably not invited to negotiations on the Finance Act. We didn't last year... there was just a cup of coffee and then goodbye and thank you. How can we negotiate such a law here in a financial law debate if we are not invited to the financial law negotiations? That is why it must be more appropriate for the Minister to say that we need to get this under control in the autumn before we get to the financial law negotiations. You can also find money to finance it as early as August or September, so that we do not have to push it to the financial law negotiations, which we may not be invited to participate in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165305	Well, that's a perfectly reasonable consideration, sir. Bent Bøgsted is coming with us. But what I said in my speech was that it will form part of the government's priorities to the Finance Act, that is. in the presentation which may come out as early as August, which all parties have the opportunity to see. Therefore, it would also be natural for the government, together with the parties of the Folketing, to come together before the priorities are set before the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165335	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165336	But the Minister keeps on saying that this is not going to be completed before the budget negotiations are held that you can discuss it, but it is not the same as negotiating something in place. The Minister says that it can be discussed in the context of priorities for a pre-negotiation financial bill, but the Minister cannot guarantee that the Prime Minister or Finance Minister will invite the Danish People's Party and the Left to the financial law negotiations. We shall certainly have no guarantee of that here today, that is to say that we will have so much influence on the financial law negotiations that we can take it with us there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165410	So, a general consideration, and it has little to do with grief leave: I always find it interesting to have the Danish People's Party in a large number of prioritization discussions, about finance law and all sorts of other things. But what I am saying, and what I said in my speech, is that it will form part of the government's priorities for the Finance Act, that is. in the presentation which comes out and which forms the basis for discussion in August. Therefore, it would also be obvious that we have met the parties of the Folketing before then, which means either before the summer break or just after the summer break, depending on how quickly we can have a basis for those discussions ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165451	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165454	Well, I just think we should get started on this, too. Now we have to see whether the parties are supporting it. If there is a broad majority in favour of it, we have shown before that we can quickly get these agreements in place. And if it is the funding that we say we have to find, then I would like to suggest that we cut back a little on the external consultants; I know that is a request from the government and from others. If you say that in three years' time you will be down to 8 billion. kr., which you're going to spend on this, it's a saving 0.2 per cent. or something like that you have to find. We can easily find that on external consultants; we can probably find it on them, among other things. the area of employment. So we're willing to, and I think there's a lot of parties willing to find funding for it. So let's put ourselves together, let's find the funding. I do not see why there are citizens out there who have to wait potentially 1⁄2 years for this to come into force if there is a majority in the Folketing for it. I think people should have an answer to that, and then I think we should get this thing started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165548	Firstly, I would like to say that fortunately this government has a great deal of will to save on consultants. I believe that we have so far indicated direction to save 2 billion. kr. out of the 3 billion. kr., which we have set out for, so I think that's interesting, that is to say that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen also points to the funding. It's not the amount of this, it's the big challenge if you're quite honest. I think it is estimated by the Ministry of Finance that it will cost 14 million. kr. Well, that's not the challenge compared to everything else we're discussing. However, it is a question of finding the right model and of thinking that, when so many parties agree on it, we must do so together. Whatever the case, we will only be able to legislate on it in the autumn. That is why, as I have also said in my rapporteur's speech, it will be reflected in the government's priorities for the Finance Act, and I think that we should get together by then. If we can do it before the summer break, we will try it otherwise it will have to be right after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165650	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165652	Okay, I'm glad. I choose to put on the positive glasses; I hear the government wants to do something about this. I also hope that I hear from the other parties in the Folketing that they want to act on this quickly and that the government will then take that message with us so that we can sit down together and we can move on this. There's no need to do controversy about it. Let's just change the law so that people out there can also get their grief treated in a proper state.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165715	Well, I fully agree with that, and I acknowledge the constructive approach, because we are in complete agreement with both the organisers of the citizens' proposal, but also with that I think I can see around the Chamber a largely unanimous Parliament that this is a task that needs to be solved. And I also think that I forgot to say in my rapporteur's speech that there should also be a great deal of praise for the parties and the then government that took the lead in introducing grief leave at all at the death of infants, and that is also why we are now discussing extending that right. We only support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165749	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165753	Thank you. It was the government of that time that took the lead in this. The reason I take the floor is that the Minister used a little as an excuse, that the calendar was booked with the Minister and the rapporteurs, but I do not think that the calendar is any more empty when we reach the autumn. I think the Minister will confirm that too. The Minister himself also says that there is a majority in favour of this and that he can clearly sense it in the Chamber today. We in the Left just really want us to get started right now. The Minister talks a lot about prioritising, so the Minister would not like to confirm today that it is in fact going to give priority to doing so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165829	I think that the calendar is basically about me not being prepared to put an exact date on from the parliamentary platform right now. We will do what we can to get these discussions started. Whether it will be here before the summer break or whether it will be right after the summer break, we will see. We also need a basis to discuss, and we also need some different input on how to find the best model. However, I can assure the rapporteur that this is something the government has a great deal of goodwill towards. We think this is important, and I would like to reiterate the praise to the then government, which took the lead in introducing a grief leave at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165913	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609165922	Thank you very much. First of all, I think that this is a very good, very important proposal that we are dealing with here, and I would like to thank the Minister for just recognising that this is something that needs to be improved. I think that is the most important thing. It will mean something to many people. But I heard the Minister say that it agrees with this that it should apply from 0 to 18 years. It was quite clear in the speech that that is also what should be the intention of the new negotiations. I fully agree with that. But this proposal also points to the need for a longer leave, i.e. six months. So I would just like to ask a little more about the Minister's position on this. What is the Minister's view of the length of leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170007	Well, I actually believe that this is one of the things we can and must discuss thoroughly. On the one hand, of course, there is consideration for the individual parent who needs to be and I think that is quite right, and it is also the reason for the citizen's proposal to work on his or her grief; on the other hand, we have also heard in connection with these discussions that experts have been out saying that the length of leave can also be too long. Well, for some, it can be a hindrance if you don't get started again. It can bite, and you can get stuck on the job market. There, I think, we should strike the right balance and discuss very carefully where the right balance lies. That is also one of the reasons why we cannot just support the citizens' proposal as it stands, letter to letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170103	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170105	I think that one of the important things to note about this proposal is that it is an offer to people. You can go back to work after, for example. 3 months. But the fact that you have the opportunity to take those six months off, I have to admit that I think is very sensible. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are also fully ready to support the citizens' proposal as it is. It will still have to be worked out in detail to make it a law, but I think it would also send out a rather positive signal that we sometimes voted in favour of some of these citizens' proposals and actually adopted them in the Folketing. So it was an invitation and just to hear the Minister whether one could not imagine doing so anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170142	Well, I've made the government's position clear. In other words, we fully support the concerns and wishes of the citizens' proposal. However, we also think that there is a basis for some things which must be considered in full and which must also be discussed between the parties of the Folketing. The financing is, of course, one part of this is the smallest part that I have already mentioned, but there is also the interaction with collective agreements and the social partners, which we also think is important to have in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170214	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Employment. We are starting with the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170228	Thank you. The greatest nightmare of all, a father or mother can imagine, is to lose his child, no matter what age the child is; I think everyone can understand that. When we had a visit from the proposers in committee, I think that we all sat with a lump in our throats listening to the parents who had gone through some of the things we all fear more than anything else. What I do not understand in relation to the proposal is why there really has to be a difference, that is why the time given to parents to process grief depends on whether the child is over or less than seven months old. It hurts immensely regardless of the age of the child. That is why I fully agree with the intention of this proposal and believe that the proposal is both sympathetic and in many ways correct. Of course, parents who lose a child must be treated equally. Of course, you have to have time to deal with the grief that you are going through and that never disappears. That is why I also believe that we politicians are obliged to change legislation and ensure better relations with parents who lose a child. That is why, as I heard the Minister say, we are also ready to look at an improvement on grief leave, but we are not going to lay down on a model now; we will have time to discuss it. However, as the Minister also said, it is not to stop it here, but in fact to make a model that we think is right, together, broadly with all the parties, and to try to obtain political support for it. I am never quoting from a closed committee meeting, but I think I can tell you that all the politicians who took part in the meeting with the proposers were deeply affected and that, therefore, as we can hear in the Chamber today, more are ready to find the right solution. I sense that people want to change this widely, but also want to ensure that we make the right model and talk through all the issues that are, and which the Minister also mentioned. I think the proposers and the people behind it deserve that. That is why, of course, I would like to thank the organisers of the citizens' proposal and look forward to the work on a good solution for the benefit of the families who experience what we all fear every day: losing a child. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170450	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170505	If you look up the word grief in the Danish dictionary, it says: "Dive, persistent, painful sense of loss, misfortune, severe adversity or the like, especially after the death of a beloved person. ▪ Yes, it is really grief, and most of us know that feeling enough, for it is, unfortunately, part of being a human being. It's probably the most horrible feeling you can possibly have. Nevertheless, I believe that the phenomenon of grief, the event, the experience is far, far worse than the definition in the dictionary indicates if the beloved who has passed away is one's child. And although the Danish language is rich and handsome, I have not yet been able to find a word or concept that is able to capture the feeling that I am convinced one is left with, after parents have had to say goodbye to their child after having been forced to put their son or daughter into the grave. Therefore, it is also only fair that a parent who has lost his child has room to deal with the pain of saying goodbye and goodbye forever. I think that anyone who has lost himself, or knows someone who has lost a child, too much alive can imagine what a tragedy it must be when the nursery suddenly stands empty when the square on the dinner table is empty when no one calls you Mom or Dad anymore. That impotence and emptiness can never be compensated for. It is so insanely meaningless every time a child dies that no political initiative, no laws, no leave arrangements can replace the lifetime of memories one should have created with one's child but the fact that nothing can compensate for the unbearable loss should not prevent us from providing better support and help to the families affected by the ultimate tragedy. That is why the Left supports the introduction of the right to grief leave in Denmark and we call on the Minister to convene political negotiations as soon as possible, before the summer break, so that we can find a good model. Of course, the model must take into account that there are many ways to deal with grief. Each family, each parent handles it in its own way. Some must return to the mill immediately, others must have plenty of time and quiet to find a foothold again. We look forward to further discussions and further consideration of the citizens' proposal. And just to make it quite clear: the Left supports the introduction of the right to grief leave in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170823	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609170844	Thank you for that, President. Losing a child is one of the worst things that can happen. It is, no matter how old the baby is. A baby was never meant to die before its parents. Unfortunately, it often happens, too many times, that a small child dies, and that is obviously not fair. That is why it is also necessary to be allowed to have a grief leave, to be allowed to recover as much as you can now, on top of having lost a small child. If it is the case that you are told that you really just have to start working again, and that there is no help to get, then you are out of a place where you cannot bottom and where you are being dragged into an abyssed hole that you find difficult to get out of again. That's why you need help. There is a difference between how people are affected by grief. Some people really just want to be allowed to work away what others need maybe 1, 2, 3 months there may also be those who need longer time and therefore the proposal here is that you can get up to 6 months of grief leave fully in place, and also that there is the possibility of having grief leave until the child is 18 years old. We can see from those who are affected that, as I said, it affects differently. I know of a couple who lost a child when it was three years old and where the man completely disintegrated. It cost them their accomplishment, it resulted in a divorce, and it is still hanging on today. I have knowledge of people who maybe 30-40 years after losing a small child go down a hole on the date of the child's death. It is difficult, of course, we cannot guard against it and remedy it, but we can start by helping it so that you can get upstairs from the start. You can get some psychological help, you can be allowed to work your way out of the grief of losing a child. That is why it is a little incomprehensible that we have not already been granted an extension of that grief leave. Because it's not the first time it's been turned around. I am a little sorry that the Minister says that we can wait for the financial law negotiations and that a debate is called on to do so, perhaps before the summer or even just after the summer. But it is not a debate on how to get a new law in place. Then it is pushed to the financial law negotiations, where there are several parties that may never be allowed to enter into the negotiations, and then we may then be allowed to vote in favour of such a proposal. That is why I call on the Minister to make an agreement, to get something in place before, because the Danish People's Party supports the resolution. We support the citizens' proposal, we will say yes to the citizens' proposal, because it is a good proposal. We have also had calculations made that if the period was extended to 18 years, it would cost 6 million. kr. That's if you have this 14-week grief leave. Then, of course, it costs something extra if you're going to have six months, and we're ready to help you find the money for that too. But that requires, of course, that there can be a majority who will work to get it in place as soon as possible. I do not think this proposal deserves to be pushed right to the financial law negotiations, because if it is only in connection with the Finance Act, then it is probably not until next year that we will be able to get this adopted here. We also do not know how the Minister intends to do so. So the Danish People's Party says yes to this proposal today, because it is a good proposal and the people who are behind it also deserve recognition that they have done a good job. The Danish People's Party is also ready to reward them for this. I know that, on the basis of what has already been said, there is no majority in favour of this proposal today, unfortunately. The Minister has promised to convene discussions, and I understand on the Left that they are also saying that they support the intention, but that they also want there to be negotiations. So I would just like to urge the Minister that we get started as soon as possible and that we be called in, and then the Danish People's Party will of course also meet up for the negotiations, but the Danish People's Party will agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609171402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609171410	Thank you. In an impressively short period of time, this citizens' proposal has gathered so much support that we are now standing in the Chamber and debating it, and we owe a great deal of thanks to the promoters of the proposal for raising this very important issue and collecting the necessary signatures. It shows, in fact, the great value of citizens' proposals, namely that people who experience challenges and injustices in the very nearest teams have the opportunity to make it known and to help others not to experience the same situation with the same challenges and injustices. I imagine that among the many supporters of the proposal there have been some who have had the grief very close to life: the abyssed grief that it is to lose a child. It takes time and tranquility to process such a tragic event, and grief cannot be put on a formal basis. That is why we in the Radical Left also share the view that the rules, as they are now, are not sufficient and do not adequately respond to the need for time and calm that a grieving parent couple must have. It is not reasonable that, shortly after leaving your child, you should meet in sick absence conversations with a view to getting back to work as soon as possible. It just hits next to the dial. The same applies to the border crossing at 7 months. The grief will not be less or easier to process if the child is 5 years or 15 years of age instead of 5 months, and therefore we in the Radical Left would like to see both longer grief leave given to parents who lose a child within the first 7 months and the possibility of grief leave for parents who lose a child of a older age. At the same time, we want a degree of flexibility to be incorporated into the new model, because it is not certain that all six months will necessarily be needed. Similarly, it could also be imagined that some will find themselves in a situation where they too quickly return to work. They must, of course, have the opportunity to return to a grief leave if that is what is needed. As mentioned earlier, grief cannot be put on a formal basis, and flexibility must therefore be a decisive guide for a new model. In the Radical Left, therefore, we support grief leave for parents who lose a child, and I agree with the many who have said that it is a difficult situation to wait until the budget negotiations, and therefore I also appreciate that we have now received an indication from the Minister that we are being called for negotiations before the summer break. This is how quickly it can be done in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609171714	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr President. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609171722	Thank you to the organisers of the citizens' proposal, and thank you very much to the many people who, through their signature, have ensured that we are dealing with the proposal today. Perhaps we can even improve the new leave arrangements beyond what is stated in the citizens' proposal. I think we should give parents more flexibility. It may be impossible to assess how much time is needed so that an opportunity to step out of the leave scheme and return again instead of breaking the neck of work could be an improvement that I think will be needed. We certainly need to clean up the current rules and we need much better rules. Today, it is far too random how people are treated and the rules are not consistent. The citizens' proposal means very little economic to the state, but means the world to families in grief. People who have to bear the unbearable should not at the same time spend resources on medical statements, sick absences, statements of opportunity and meetings at the job center, and sickness benefit does not fit a grief situation. When mental batteries are basically caused by death, yes, there must be time and opportunity to grieve. Among the answers received by the committee is one from Charlotte Jensen, who has been working with parents who have lost a child for 16 years. Her background is that she's a cand.psych. She writes to us: My experience is that, unfortunately, parents feel all too often pressured to return to work before they are really ready. It can worsen and prolong a grief process if there is not the time needed to grieve and further stress is experienced due to expectations and demands from the surroundings. The grief of losing a child does not depend on the child's age, and that is why it makes sense that it is raised to 18 years. The Association of Cancer-stricken Children has written to us in the committee: Studies show that losing a child is the most burdensome loss that can be experienced, and that it affects them for many years to come, and that many, both parents and surviving siblings, have severe strain reactions and anxiety along the way and several years later. We can and must lift a small part of the burden from the hard-hit families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172026	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172033	Thank you very much for the floor. I think this is a very, very important proposal and on the part of the Enhedslisten we are voting in favour of the proposal. I think it is very important that we support this. Losing a child must be the most horrible thing you can ever have. There may not be any real relief for this, but at least as a society we can make sure that we actually get some peace to heal in the most acute shock it must be and that we have the opportunity to get back on our feet a little bit before we have to go out and meet the demands of the labour market. There are also many families where there are other children. There you also need to use your strength on the remaining siblings, not on your job. I also think it is very central here that it is an opportunity that you have. If people want to come back before six months have passed, that is quite possible. Of course, you have to do what you feel is most right for yourself. But I think it is very reasonable and sensible to say that this right to six months' leave is something that we, as a society, would like to make available. The same goes for the fact that, of course, children of all ages should be given the opportunity to receive grief leave. We support the proposal. And as I hear it, many other parties do, in fact. That is why, in my view, we should just be able to adopt this citizens' proposal as it stands. I think it seems very sensible. Now we have to see what we can achieve either in a vote or in a debate. However, it is important that there is now clear support for the improvement of grief leave and, from my perspective, the proposal that lies here is a really sensible one for what you think may be needed. I think it is a right that society should provide when people are affected by such a severe grief. So thank you very much to you, who are the proposers, for having found the strength to make this proposal so that we can have this discussion and hopefully very soon get the law changed and very much like, as proposed here. I think it is right to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172312	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Bjørn-Klausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172329	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I signed this proposal myself, and I'm a little bit affected, because the greatest grief I've ever met in my life was the grief when I lost my first child. So for me, this is both a very personal but also a political matter. When I lost my son, a friend said to me: Sometimes I try to understand how painful it must be, but I stop, because I don't want to think that thought to the end; I can't bear that. I'm so sorry I'm so affected, but I'm very affected by it. For the grief of losing a child knows only those who have lost a child. Everyone thinks it's awful, but the grief only knows the few. Grief is different, people are different, we react differently to grief. Some need peace and alone time, others need to get out and get back to life. My husband and I were excellent examples of this, and I would like to thank the psychologists who guided us so well through understanding each other's different ways of mourning so that we did not end up as part of divorce statistics. I'd rather not say I was lucky, but I'm grateful for the 14 weeks I got on maternity leave to get over the pain and miss the child I had just laid in my grave. It's a very different time you go through because you don't have a child. I could, for example. have spared a visit by the health care provider, who gave me a book on becoming a parent for the first time, just as I understand that parents who have lost a little older children can do without the job centre's case workers calling about meetings and papers to be filled. There must simply be room in a society such as the Danish one for one to be allowed to mourn the child one has lost. Because you're in grief, you're not a jobseeker. About one child dies a day in Denmark, and it is very much for the individual family, but for our economy it is not a great burden to give parents the opportunity to care in peace. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the intentions of the proposal. We think it is very good to give parents peace and quiet to recover from the loss of their most precious children. We also stress that it must be an offer and not a duty, because we take care of different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172559	Then we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172617	A few weeks ago, it must be, or a month and a half ago, I stood on this platform and was hard on the Danish folk regime or at least hard on the way it was managed and the way it was treated. It was about a case in which the Folketing refused me as a member of the Folketing to get answers to some basic questions before I had to vote on anything. Today I am experiencing the opposite: a Parliament that is united in correcting something that is not right. I am experiencing a dynamic in which people from different parties come together and express the wish that we should act on this and that may actually have a need to act on it. And then I meet a government that picks up the glove and says, "Yes, we'll do it." The government actually started out with a position that it should be in the context of the Finance Act. Perhaps we had looked at what the previous government had done when it stood with the proposal, because I think there was such a proposal from the SF at the time when it was also referred to and now the minister has actually arrived in the Chamber from that time that the financial negotiations were probably the right place for it to take place. And I understand that. But today it has been done in a different way. Then we can draw up scenarios as to whether we should do it one way or another, but sometimes we just have to be happy and proud that we are actually dynamic and that we are moving things forward. So much recognition for the people who have moved on to this and for us to get started on it. Let us find each other and give peace and quiet to some people out there who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172825	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172829	Thank you. It was simply because of the remark made by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. I can confirm that, when I was Minister for Employment, I, in fact, at the request of the President-in-Office of the Folketing, now, Mrs Trine Torp, accepted the proposal which had been tabled as a motion for a resolution and which for too many years had lived a sluggish life and had not been promoted. We found the money that was needed, and that is why I was actually pleased to hear Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question to the Minister for Employment about why an agreement could not be reached quickly. Because this deserves a quick agreement, also in order to give the signal that we will, of course, make this extraordinary effort. As has also been mentioned in the debate, it is not certain that all parents affected by this tragedy will take all the months that are given. It is, of course, very individual, and that is why I think there is reason to sign for it, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172923	Thank you. I think, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen makes a very important point, namely that it is not us from in here who want to impose something on the parents. It is a help that will hopefully be so flexible and so spacious that as many as possible can feel that they get the help and support from in here as they need to get through such a period. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609172947	There is no follow-up question. Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. The next rapporteur we have on the list is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, who is not present. There has just been a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and perhaps that is why. There's no one from the Liberal Alliance here? No. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609173105	The debate is open. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609173119	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the opportunity to have this discussion on how best to ensure that workers who, unfortunately, suffer from covid-19 as a result of their work are taken care of. It is crucial for me that in this very special time we take extra care of our employees. No one should go to work and feel that they are running an unnecessary health risk by doing their job. Therefore, I am also very pleased that people at particular risk of illness with covid-19 and their relatives are now insured with sickness benefit if they cannot go to work while we are reopening Denmark. It is important to me that people at risk do not feel pressured to go to work or even quit their jobs. And I think that is a very good solution, on which a very broad majority of the Folketing has agreed. At the same time, we must take care of all the many people who meet every day at work and help ensure that society can move on. It imposes requirements on the working environment, which must, of course, be in order at the individual workplace so that we prevent infection in the best possible way. It is very clearly stated in the Working Conditions Act that it is the employer who is responsible for compliance with the OSH rules and for their employees having a healthy and safe working environment. Employers are therefore obliged to take the necessary measures to prevent the risk of infection to employees in relation to the corona virus. And here it is crucial to follow the recommendations of the health authorities and the guidelines drawn up for each profession in relation to, among other things, the health authorities. behaviour, hygiene and, where appropriate, personal protective equipment. At the same time, the employer must ensure that their employees have the necessary information and instruction, and the employer must follow up on whether the instructions and guidelines are understood and complied with. Prevention is essential. It is the responsibility of employers; it is also my impression that it is taken seriously by the vast majority of employers. And, of course, it is also important in this respect that it should be supervised. I am therefore also pleased that we can once again turn up the supervisory work of the Labour Inspectorate. As I have informed the Danish Parliament, I have asked the Danish Labour Inspectorate to extend the supervisory work so that, from 8 June, general basic supervision is carried out in the vast majority of sectors and holistic supervision in the construction and civil engineering sector only in the hospital and care sector we continue with targeted supervision. In relation to all types of supervision, the Factory Inspectorate will continue to monitor the prevention of coronasmite. Having said that, there must of course also be confidence that you can get a covid-19 disease recognised as an occupational injury if you are still ill and that is because of the work. This is true whether you are a doctor, a teacher or something else. I know that there has been uncertainty as to whether covid-19 can be recognised as an occupational injury. There must, of course, be clarity about the rules, and that is why the Labour Inspectorate published a guide on 22 April on the rules for the assessment of occupational injuries cases concerning covid-19. It is clear from the guidance that covid-19 disease can be recognised as an occupational injury and that compensation can be obtained if the disease has lasting consequences; there must be no doubt about that. Nor should we be in any doubt that this applies to everyone, even if you are employed outside the health sector. It will, of course, be a concrete assessment in the individual case, where some jobs will imply a strong presumption that one has been infected at work. The guide contains examples of jobs where there could be a strong presumption of infection at work. All occupational groups must be likely to have been exposed to risk of infection during work, but it goes without saying that there can be a strong presumption if you are employed in a hospital and work with patients who are ill with covid-19. However, it is important for me to make it clear that only examples of counselling do not include the Guide for everyone in the labour market, and therefore it will also be possible for people with other jobs to make it possible for people with other jobs to become infected at work. I can tell you that per year. On 8 June 443 cases were notified in AES concerning covid-19, but only a small number of decisions have been taken in these cases. I know that AES is dealing with the first cases of covid-19 as a matter of urgency and, of course, I am following developments in this area closely. As I started by saying, I am pleased with this discussion today. I am, because we are generally very concerned about how to ensure a working injury system for all employees in Denmark, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for our meeting last week in the Ministry of Employment, where we started work on a work injury reform. I saw the meeting as very constructive, and I was very pleased to note that it seems to be a task that the parties of the Folketing will take an active part in. It is no secret that labour damage reform is something that we in the government want to prioritise. And as Minister for Employment, this is something that I will be working hard to achieve. In this work, we will have major and fundamental discussions on how to ensure the best possible system for all workers who, unfortunately, are injured in their work. Here, of course, we can also discuss how to ensure that everyone gets the compensation to which they are entitled. The key word for me here is everyone. When we are discussing today a possible change to the reversal of the burden of proof in industrial injury cases dealing with covid-19 disease, it is important to remember that such a change would be a breach of perfectly general and generally accepted legal principles and burden of proof. It is a general rule of the burden of proof that the person making the claim must prove or make it probable that the claim exists and not that it is the person who is faced with the claim who must prove or make it probable that the claim does not exist. A change to the reversal of the burden of proof in this area will at the same time mean that people with occupational injury cases will be treated differently. In concrete terms, this will mean that employees who have become ill with covid-19 will be better off than employees who, for example, have been ill with covid-19. become ill with other infectious diseases such as: hepatitis or staphylococci. I do not really think that is fair. On the other hand, I think it is reasonable that all occupational injury cases should be treated equally on the basis of a principle that it should be possible to make it probable that one's illness is due to work if one is to receive compensation under the Work Damage Insurance Act. I also think it is important that we give priority to resources in this area. It is no secret that we should expect such a change in the rules to some extent to result in increased costs. I think we can be honest about that. We must also remember that, although the injured person has the legal burden of proof, the authorities are obliged to inform all cases so that a correct decision can be taken. It is therefore up to the authorities to obtain all the relevant information, including evidence from, for example, witnesses. colleagues or others who can provide information to the case. In short, it is not left to the individual employee alone to provide the information relevant to the case. This is true in covid-19 cases, as in all industrial injury cases. I am, of course, always open to political discussions, but I do not think it is the right solution to introduce a reversal of the burden of proof in cases of covid-19. Instead, I think that we should put the effort into creating a system of occupational injury which ensures the best possible treatment for all employees, and I therefore look forward to the forthcoming negotiations on this. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609173919	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609173924	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I fully agree that it is really at the heart of this that the working environment is in order and also that employers are responsible for it. That is our system, and so must it be. The Minister also says that, of course, the recommendations of the health authorities must be followed, and there is, of course, precisely a problem here. Because we have a health care professional who has been asked, in a broad sense, to be a front-line staff. They have been asked to go both to the hospitals, but not least in home care, out in the citizens' homes. And then the recommendation was, of course, that you didn't have to use protective equipment if you didn't have someone who was obviously ill or had obvious symptoms. Today we know that this situation is also contagious. So what this is really about for us in the Danish People's Party is to say: The group we have asked to go out and take this risk is then left behind and must lift the burden of making it probable that they have been infected. e.g. in home care, where it may not even have been found that those with whom they came were ill. And that's really what we're looking for with this. That is to say: well, there is a group here where we cannot really be otherwise familiar. We haven't had guidelines to secure them. That is why we should do something here to ensure that they are brought to justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174036	Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174036-2	Thank you for both the question and the comments. In other words, as the rules are today, it must be assumed that the infection is a consequence of the work. It is therefore not to be proved, and this is also clear from the guidance which has been prepared. And I would say that in relation to the example of Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentions that a visit has been made to some elderly people, such as a home care provider, and you yourself have subsequently found that you have been infected with covid-19 and you can then make sense and go back and see if any of those you have visited, who have received it, or where it has later been found that they have had covid-19. So in this way there is a strong presumption that it is as part of the work. And I think it is also necessary to take the view that in many cases we, as politicians, will probably not have to decide on this, but it will be apparent from a case-by-case procedure that there will be a strong presumption of a great deal of exactly the front-line staff mentioned by the rapporteur, that they may have been infected as part of their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174141	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174142	The problem lies precisely in the probability which the Minister also mentioned several times in his speech and which needs to be done. Because it is not certain that older people have been tested for covid-19; those with which they have been out. And it's not certain that you've actually discovered that you've got it yourself. It may be that some of these collateral damage that we're beginning to hear about will follow. So that you may have been ill, but maybe not really sick at first, and then you get sick later and get long - term discomfort and something like that. Making it probable that this is linked to some specific visits and some specific sick people is extremely difficult. Therefore, will the Minister not help to ensure that these people can actually receive the compensation they should be entitled to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174224	I believe that, basically and unequivocally, if it is that you have become ill as part of your work, then you should have the compensation you are entitled to. And I also believe that with the guidance that has been prepared, where it is cut out quite precisely, that if there is a strong presumption that you have been infected as part of your work, then you also have the right to compensation. And it is clear that there are some employee groups where it has to be said that there is a greater likelihood that they have been infected as part of their work, and this is very much the case with the front-line staff, whom the rapporteur is right in many places have not had the proper protective equipment from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174310	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174325	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for giving the opportunity, with this proposal, to discuss in this Chamber our industrial injury system and the principles underlying the way it works today. One of the cornerstones of the system of occupational injury, which the Social Democratic Party fully supports, is that everyone is treated equally, regardless of who they are, what they have worked with, or what disease or damage they have suffered, and I think that now that we have all been three or four months with corona, we are left with both experiences and perhaps some feelings about it. After all, the crisis has shown that the Danes have been ready to do what they need to do, both to stay at home, to keep their distance and to drink off, but also to continue to go to work, for example. in factories, in agriculture, in the transport sector and in the grocery stores, so that we could all still put clothes on our bodies and food in our stomachs, and what else we needed and need in our daily lives, but also our entire healthcare and care for the elderly, places of residence, institutions, etc., where work has continued to take care of our sick, our elderly and our vulnerable fellow citizens. I and we in the Social Democratic Party have very much respect for the efforts that have been made and are still being made, and when we look beyond most of the world, we can see that what has been done is unique. Fortunately, anyone who should be so unlucky to be infected with covid-19 at their work has the opportunity to make a notification to AES and have their occupational injury dealt with on an equal footing with other diseases and other illnesses. The Danish People's Party's proposal on reverse proof in relation to the recognition of occupational injuries in connection with the covid-19 is, in fact, a recognition of the efforts made, and I fully share the need to express that recognition. But I also have a dilemma. For what are we going to do with those firemen who unselfishly throw themselves into a burning house to save people from burning in, or soldiers who unselfishly go to war at our command, or employees in the care of the elderly who unselfishly care for outgoing demented? I could continue to give examples. There are an infinite number of good Danish citizens who every day make an effort that gives the greatest respect, and therefore it is also crucial to me that they all, as it is today, are treated equally when or if they should get a job injury. This also means that we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal for reverse proof in connection with work injuries at covid-19. We would very much like to take part in discussions with all the parties of the Danish Parliament on how our occupational injury system will look in the future, but it will be on the basis that everyone should be treated equally, regardless of work, illness or injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174648	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174654	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Everyone needs to be treated equally, but I think that, in this situation, we have a large staff group that we, as a society, have asked to go out and be front staff. We have thus asked them to do so without protective equipment, probably because we did not have them, but it was because the recommendation at that time did not have to be used, so we have asked them to put themselves at risk. If they were subsequently to suffer long-term damage because of this, does the rapporteur not think that they deserve to be able to obtain that compensation, regardless of how they can make it probable where they have been infected?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174732	No, in fact, I do not think so, and I think I have said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech, that it should be based on the fact that people have been at work and have been injured there. In other words, as the Minister has explained very well, we must be able to make it possible that it is at work that we have been infected. From the guidelines which the rapporteur has probably also read through, I think it is very clear that making it possible to make it possible for one to have been infected at work is that one might refer to the fact that, for example, if one is a teacher in a kindergarten, one has had to hug a child who is crying and if the child subsequently turns out to be ill, that may be a reason why one has been infected and thus gets recognition of one's work injury.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174816	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174817	Exactly in the example, it is typical that the child will not show any symptoms at any time, regardless of whether it is ill. So that means that the infection may actually have been carried around, and I think. It is absolutely crucial that we have asked a large staff group to go out without taking care of themselves and putting themselves at this risk, and that we will not say that they should of course be comfortable that they are actually secured afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174843	They are, too, in that we have a system of occupational injury which ensures that if you can make it possible to make it possible for it to be at work, the damage has been done, then you will also get recognition of your injury and perhaps also a compensation. This was one of the reasons why I chose to take just a few of the other professional groups that go out every day and do things completely unselfishly at our command, and now I mentioned the firemen, the soldiers and the nursing staff in relation to the demente that is outgoing. They're doing it, knowing they might get hurt. They must all make it possible for that damage to be done to their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174920	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609174927	Thank you. I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur about those things he mentioned about particularly vulnerable, which was also the first question: what about the others who are particularly vulnerable and who are unselfish? I think most people go to work and say, "We're doing our best." And sometimes they forget to consider themselves. But there are, of course, firefighters, soldiers, police, falcon rescuers and social educators who cannot always foresee the situation and are therefore exposed. But can the rapporteur not confirm that in some of these areas we have actually fought to get specific legislation through? For example: After all, we have a very special legislation for soldiers who have been at war and ptsd has been particularly recognised for some of these groups because we have said: we cannot describe a war situation right on the front, or if you are surrounded by Taliban in Afghanistan etc. That is why we have had to try to make some special rules and some special considerations and some special lenient options to get a replacement. Therefore, there may be situations where legislation needs to be reversed. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175036	Here you go, sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175038	Thank you. It is true that we have made one exception, and it is also the only one that is at all in relation to our industrial injury system, and it is in relation to soldiers who have been at war. It is not about how they will be recognised for their work injury, but that they are allowed to report to you later than 6 months after the situation has been there. It's the only thing we've changed. You still have to make it probable that it's at work or in the war it's also a job that's happened, and that's why I kind of hold on to it. I would say that if you are going to discuss these things we can do that appropriately when the Minister invites us to discuss what a work injury system should look like then we have to discuss it and whether some consideration should be taken into account. But my starting point, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is that everyone should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175129	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175131	It is possible that the rapporteur feels that way. But we do have some grotesque situations, and the occupational injury system has so far been conservative. That is to say, although firefighters have been proving for ten years that there are dangerous substances only in fire smoke that give them a special form of cancer, they have not been able to get it recognised yet because we are so stiff-headed that we do not change those things. The same goes for a number of other people. Falck savers have just as often ptsd and others who have such really tough experiences, and that is why we have to work much more openly with our work injury system, and hopefully it will also be the result in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175213	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175215	Thank you. After all, there is not much time to answer all these questions or, at least, comments here. It is true that we have examined it in relation to firefighters, and scientific studies have been carried out on whether there is a connection between being a firefighter and seeing that some of them have had cancer, and that is where we have been documented. Where you might be able to say that there is something we have found out is not actually under the fires because they all have their equipment on, but it is because they have not taken care to wash themselves properly afterwards that they have been able to have some suffering. But it's not directly because of the fire. It says that we can have all sorts of attitudes and also great respect for the recognition of nursing staff, but the starting point for all this must be that if you are to have recognised a work injury, it must be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175303	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175315	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important case about the right to compensation for the consequences of the covid-19. This is an important debate in which we are happy to take part. The Danish People's Party has tabled the motion for a resolution to amend the law on occupational injury insurance so that the burden of proof is reversed in the event of occupational injury in connection with covid-19. There is no doubt that the intention of the Danish People's Party with the motion for a resolution is very sympathetic and very understandable. All employees must be able to trust that they will be taken care of if they become ill through their work. The occupational injury insurance scheme ensures that employees are compensated for subsequent accidents at work and occupational diseases. The Factory Inspectorate, together with the occupational injury system, has prepared a new guide describing the criteria for the recognition of covid-19 as occupational injury. The guide makes it clear that one can get one's illness with covid-19 recognized as an occupational injury. Covid-19 disease can be recognised as occupational injury if it is probable that the disease is due to work, and by some types of work the work itself will imply a strong presumption that the employee has been exposed to infection at work. This applies to health care workers, such as: nurses and sosu assistants, doctors and porters working in intensive care units and in direct contact with infected patients. The Left believes that it is not appropriate to introduce a reversal of the burden of proof in the present situation. We do not yet know if there is a problem. It would be quite obvious to wait for guidance to work before deciding whether there is a need to do away with fundamental principles of the occupational injury system. We must wait for the effect of the new clarification work injury guidelines on the recognition of covid-19. There is no doubt, however, that the Left will follow developments closely, and the Left proposes that the Minister should keep the Committee regularly informed of the developments in the cases of compensation for the consequences of the covid-19 that will be decided. For example: a monthly briefing may be provided. With these words we in the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175524	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175529	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left does not agree that we have taken a large group of health workers and sent them out as front workers in the situation we have faced without the necessary protective equipment and even with some guidelines that said they should not use protective equipment. Then we can see that they should have used it. They have exposed themselves to a risk that they have not known and have not managed. Subsequently, they run the risk of having consequences where they are likely to be, where and when they have been infected. Can we not agree that they should have the calmness in their stomachs that allows them to know that if they get sick and suffer collateral damage, they will also be compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175615	We can totally agree that there is a health care provider who has simply been out doing a great job, and they have done that with a certain risk • at times a rather high risk • and we have become much smarter on this disease, which has been called insidious and tricky and has been called everything and which we do not quite know what is. Nor do we know what it really does. As I understand from the Minister, there has not been any real recognition of any work injuries yet. What we think is really good is that an urgent presentation of the guidelines has actually been set in motion, and it will of course do that we will follow it closely here, because we do not yet know if there is a problem. If there is a problem, we are quite ready to discuss it, but we do not know it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175659	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175701	I fully agree that we have become wiser. Precisely because we have become wiser, perhaps we should also look back and say that we have a large staff group here, which is running around and is very uncertain about what this means to them, is very uncertain about the matters they are entering. Now it was said before, I think it was four hundred and one or other number of cases that had come into the Department of Occupational Injury, and there may of course be a number of cases, and there will be, in the hospitals and in the municipalities, which are registered in the internal systems and which have not moved on. So there's a lot of work in it. But shouldn't we say that now that we've gotten smarter, we have to give this staff group the certainty that it's actually replacing potential damage?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175748	I would just like to make a brief comment about keeping to the speaking time. I am getting up a lot of the time in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175758	Yes, I agree with the questioner that we need to get smarter, and we are also the reason why we say that when we learn more about whether the guidance has worked, that is what we need to look at. Because if the guidance works, there is no problem, and then we do not have to go in and look at something fundamental, fundamental in the whole work injury system, but if it does not work, we are ready to discuss what we do then.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175825	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175829	That is what the rapporteur says: I do not like the approach of the bourgeois people to the working environment. This must be proved both in the front and in the back, to put it nicely, every time we need a change in the working environment. There must be bodies on the table before civil politicians in particular move with the working environment. I'm so sorry. We know that this disease is fatal, we know that this disease can be infected, and we know that the health care staff are grabbing the sick, providing an oxygen mask, providing care, although the state and the health system have not ensured that there are enough masks for them because they are facing a fellow human being. In such a situation we must create optimal security, even if the law we make is not just a hundred percent necessary for more than 100 or 200 people. That is what is important in preventive work, namely that we are one step ahead of the damage and not behind, otherwise we will create frightened people who dare not say yes to doing the important job we want them to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609175936	Now I have to say that I think the rapporteur is quite rude in his speech about what we bourgeois think and do. First of all, we are stepping up into it with a new labour injury reform, and we are willing to go in and make direct changes to the labour injury reform. The Minister can testify to that too. That's the first thing. The second is that the rapporteur mentioned the lack of masks. Yes, there has been a lack of masks, which is why we have also called the Minister for Health and Employment in consultation on Tuesday, and that is where I hope the rapporteur will take part because we think this is a problem. So there must be enough protective equipment, and there must be enough of it all, so I think the rapporteur is quite rude when he says that there should be bodies on the table, because that is not even where we are. In addition, things in this guide only have to be made probable, and there's quite a difference between that and that something has to be proved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180036	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180038	Now my attitude may be harsh, but I have been sitting with people who have lost a worker who has gone wrong at his place of work and up to 100 people who have had their health ruined over the last 30 years where I worked before. And I have seen how bourgeois politicians have systematically undermined our preventive legislation in the field of health and safety, and that is why I say it a little directly. It is not the rapporteur's responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the parties, and that is what we need to put right. Many of the things we are discussing now are recovery, they are not even improvements, they are recovery because we have had a scandalous deterioration in the 00s.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180119	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180121	We are about to discuss a new labour damage reform, and there we are very willing to participate, and I hope the rapporteur too is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180133	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. We shall skip the authors of the motion, so that is why the next rapporteur to speak is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180150	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the proposal here will introduce a reversal of the burden of proof for covid-19 into the Work Damage Act. In the Radical Left we cannot support the proposal, and there are a number of reasons for this. First of all, the reversal of the burden of proof breaks with the essential principles of the occupational injury system, because it is a guiding principle for compensation for occupational injury that it must be established that the work is the cause of the disease before the employer becomes liable. In addition, there is also a risk of a snowball effect in which it may be found that cases of compensation for many other diseases also have to be awarded with the reverse burden of proof. This can have major economic consequences for companies, as the occupational injury system is financed exclusively by the payment of insurance premiums by companies. In general, I am surprised that this proposal has been made before we have even had the opportunity to look at the effects of the revised Labour Inspectorate's guide on covid-19. We do not have any evidence at this stage to say that there should be particular challenges in lifting the burden of proof with claims for covid-19. On the other hand, we must closely monitor the development of occupational injury cases, and it is clear that if we see a problematic pattern in the awards, we are happy to deal with it. However, as we have not yet seen the effects of the new guide where it is likely that the coronasmit has come in connection with the work, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180340	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180345	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that we, as a society, have sent out a large group of staff as health personnel to a large extent out in the care of the elderly and made health recommendations that they should not use protective equipment and asked them to put themselves at risk. Now we stand here and say: you have put yourself at risk. We will not take responsibility for compensating you if you receive any collateral damage from what we have asked you to do. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180419	It is quite true that there is a group of people with so-called critical functions in society who have really worked hard where others have been sitting at home and for which we owe them a huge and enormous thanks. Therefore, I am also very pleased that this new guide came, where, if you have received the covid-19 infection, you do not have to document it, but make it probable that it has been transferred in connection with work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180452	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180454	So that means that thanks to that staff are a thank you. I sometimes hear the staff groups, both nurses and assistants and others, stand up and say: what can we get for our great efforts? It's that someone is standing somewhere and saying thank you. What they may need is for them to be able to actually obtain the compensation for occupational injury that they may need. And it is true that we do not know it yet, but it may come, and that is why we should now give them the assurance that they will actually get the compensation if they get the collateral damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180523	Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180525	Of course, thanks are due, and I think that is worthwhile, but in addition, more can also be done, and I think that is what the new guide does. After all, when we do things, we owe it to see how it works, before a change, or when building upstairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180549	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180553	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Radicals mentioned that it could risk increasing the cost of insurance. Is it not true that we should agree that it is secondary? It is primarily that people can feel safe when they make an extra effort, and if they get sick then society is there to say that there is no doubt about where we stand, because then we are behind those people and make sure they get proper treatment. Is it not true that preventive work is not about waiting and seeing if what we have now is working, but predicting that some problems may arise and then ensuring that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180630	Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180631	Security, especially in such a situation as Covid-19 has brought Denmark and the rest of the world into, is particularly crucial. That is why Parliament has repeatedly shown that we can meet and change and deal with our legislation urgently so that we can ensure the safety of staff on the front line, of relatives, of people at risk and so on. That is precisely why I come back to the fact that there has also been a new guide and that, of course, we have to wait and see how it works. There the Radical Left believes that if it turns out that it is not enough, we would like to look at further things. However, there has been a new guide based on covid-19, which means that people should not document but make it probable that the infection has arisen in connection with the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180730	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180731	Thank you. I understood that the Radical Left agrees that the insurance premium is secondary in this debate and that it is actually about the potential injured persons. In this context, I would like to ask: can the rapporteur imagine that we in society sometimes reverse the burden of proof because, in specific situations, such as those in the United Kingdom, there is a risk that the burden of proof will be reversed? This one is impossible for the injured to lift?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180759	When I mention the economy of companies, it is, in fact, because the Folketing and the government decide to open up society. The way in which we deal with each other at a very early stage is significantly different. We see each other more and we sit closer and all these things. It also plays a role in relation to where you get infected, whether it is at work or at a birthday, at a demo or whatever it is you go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180836	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no more brief comments and no more answers. The next rapporteur to whom I would like to welcome is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609180846	The Danish Parliament has carried out a large number of good initiatives to get us all safely through the coronatide, and we have actually been quite good at getting around the corners, and now we have also got the Danish Labour Inspectorate up to speed. There have been doubts in the past as to whether covid-19 could be recognised as an occupational injury, but fortunately that is also in place now. An occupational injury is awful enough in itself and should not be aggravated by the fact that there is insecurity as to whether the damage can be recognised. In a crisis situation that we are in the middle of, we need to take extra care of the people who have been sent to the very front, and for a longer period at the start of the crisis, even though they have not been provided with adequate protective equipment. People who, through their absolutely necessary efforts, for example. home care or as home nurse, being infected with covid-19, should not go into any longer evidence. One could imagine the opposite claim. Perhaps the sosu assistant, doctor or porter has been infected this weekend or over a cup of coffee with the neighbor, and it can be difficult or almost impossible to prove that the infection was transmitted exactly in a work situation. That's what makes this situation something very special and not immediately comparable to other work injuries. It gives confidence to know that AES must, as a starting point, recognise covid-19 as an occupational injury unless the opposite can be proved. Infecting situations is different from getting hurt in a different way. And because of the special circumstances, this particular crisis situation, in which we have not taken proper care of the front staff from the outset, and where it can be almost impossible to prove that the infection has arisen at work, is SF positive towards the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181048	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181052	Thank you very much for your speech and thank you for your support for this. I heard that the SF rapporteur and the SF as such also believe that we, as a society, have a responsibility and that we are actually taking responsibility for ensuring that this staff we sent out without protective equipment at the beginning can be compensated at the moment when they suffer subsequent damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181115	There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF. The next person I'd like to welcome is sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181125	Thank you so much. People can die of corona. We have seen a number of unacceptable examples of employment conditions from 13 March onwards. I remember the carpenter's jacket from South Jutland: Five people who laid roofs and had worked together for many years, and suddenly all five were hit by corona. The Shakbarjsen died of corona. This could probably have been prevented. I remember the construction site in Copenhagen, where there were pictures of toilets, baths and canteens that resembled the conditions of the Pelle Conqueror more than 100 years ago. It was relationships that were quite disgusting and that were a dream for the corona virus. There were some Polish and Romanian workers who worked on, and then a Danish crew said to their boss: You know what? You can call me back when things are okay. We don't want to work on this. It's at risk of life and health to be here. That was the difference between those who know their rights and those who do not know their rights. That is why there is a great risk in a situation like this that we have been in. I believe that all the workers who have been in the health sector and have done an enormous amount of work have been mentioned, I also believe that the cashier who sat directly with the customers has been mentioned, and I also believe that the bus driver, who was very close to the customers, has been mentioned in the risk zone. These are the ones we need to be careful of with this legislation. The Labour Inspectorate has been sent home along the way, and it was a scandal. I have sometimes called out very loudly on the telephone to him who sits down there, who is called Peter, but who also has to be addressed to the Minister for Employment, and said: this is not acceptable. So can we get that Labour Inspectorate back? They must take care of the workers in Denmark, and for that matter also the nurses and academics. We have proposed now, when the workers are returning to the Danish workplaces, that we should have a task force on some additional people, for example. 100 people, the year out, who can help the Labour Inspectorate to keep an eye on the proper way in which it is done and who must have the authority to intervene if it is not done properly. If things go so wrong that these people who have risked life and health can sound hard, but that's whoever's listening, of course they need proper treatment, of course. I was not satisfied with the first guidance that came that focused only on health care. That is why I wrote several letters to the Minister to say that this had to be changed. Others did. There were a lot of people from other professions than those who work in the health sector who said: this is not acceptable. Therefore, we probably got the new guide number 2, which only needs to be made probable, and that is a good step in the right direction. I understand if somebody says, "Oh, well, then we'll see if this lasts," and we'll see if we can move on. It is a dilemma with the reverse burden of proof, but it would be a huge help for those who have suffered damage to life and health if it has been at their work. That is why I support the proposal and I am keen to see where we end up with the preliminary 443 notifications. Well, maybe this guidance is good enough. We'll see about that. It depends entirely on how it is interpreted and handled by those who decide on life and health or at least the compensation you can get along the way. We have a parallel. And now I yelled at the bourgeois a few minutes ago, and I did so because we have partially abolished what is called the objective responsibility of the employers. It was weakened in the '00s and it was a huge step backwards for our ability to make employers accountable. I know that the bourgeois thought this was great, because why should they be fully responsible for their workers? At that time, the employer had the right to direct and distribute the work and guys and hire, but he also had the duty to look after his people, and therefore we had an objective responsibility at that time. That is why it is difficult to work on the burden of proof, and that is why we must try to get it in. I think that this debate is a good start to the debate we shall have later on on a system of occupational injury which is so hollow and which can be done much more securely and better than what we have seen in the last 30 years. So I would like to thank you for the proposal, and I would like to warmly support it, so that we can now secure at least those people who, in the wake of corona, are at risk of not getting any compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181634	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609181644	Thank you. Covid-19 has been a violent experience for our society. The disease has spread, people have lost their close, and many companies are under pressure. As members of the Folketing, we have had a lot to look at with urgent legislation and aid packages, and it is certain that we have very corona-related legislation ahead of us. The aim of the Danish People's Party's proposal is to reverse the burden of proof in cases of occupational injury in connection with covid-19, so that the employer must pay compensation unless the employer can prove that the employee has not been infected at the workplace. When we adopt proposals in this Chamber, it is important that we think about and ask some fundamental questions before, even if the intention of the proposal is very sympathetic. The first question to be asked is whether there are negative consequences derived from the proposal. The second question is whether the proposal is necessary at all. Unfortunately, when I look at the proposal, the answers to both questions are not very positive. Would there be negative consequences derived from the proposal if it were implemented? Yes, there would be extensive negative consequences. First of all, the proposal runs counter to the guiding principles of the occupational injury system. It is simply not fair for companies to prove that employees have not received covid-19 at work. In a rule of law one should not normally prove one's innocence. It's the reverse burden of proof. But that's the consequence of the proposal. In addition, has consideration been given to what this could potentially set in motion? If we reverse the burden of proof in connection with covid-19, why not all sorts of other diseases such as arthritis, stress and depression? Why discriminate between victims of covid-19 and victims of other serious diseases? Several players will undoubtedly push for it, and it can become quite incalculable to imagine the situation in which companies can end up standing in the future when they have to prove their innocence. Last but not least, we run the risk of this hitting the most vulnerable citizens of society extra hard. People who are on the edge and who have health problems or are at risk of long-term illness will find it much harder to get a job. Many companies will not dare to hire them for fear of a burst of legal proceedings where they have to prove that they have been the cause of the disease. We should encourage companies to take social responsibility, not punish them for trying. Then there is the question of whether the proposal is necessary. No, it isn't, and certainly not yet. Unlike several other countries, Denmark can recognise a work injury as a result of covid-19, and the Danish Labour Inspectorate and Labour Damage Authorities have prepared a new guide on how covid-19 can be recognised as a work injury, which is sufficient and reassuring. This points out that it is not necessary to prove that you have covid-19 at work, but rather that it should only be made probable, and that is fine. That is a fair and balanced way of determining it, and we do not think it is wise to change our work injury system so much. That is why we in Conservatives cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182031	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182036	I am very sorry about the rapporteur's speech by the Conservative representative: it is not right that companies should be able to prove that we could also just say that we are likely to do so. But is it reasonable that the worker should prove or make probable? That is what the system is today. It is the worker who gets hurt, it is the victim who has to prove that this has happened at work. Is that fair? After all, there are thousands of workers who are injured every year in jobs in Denmark who never get a compensation and who never get their damages recognised, because we have so sorry the term "conservative" legislation that says that there must be a corpse on the table before we can start to recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182125	It's a violent rhetoric: Lie on the table. That's not what this is about. What I have said in my rapporteur's speech is that today, as a worker, we must not document but make it possible. I am opposed to the reversal of the burden of proof. After all, it is not the employer who has to prove it. This must be the case, which has been affected by the covid-19. It is extremely difficult for an employer to document it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182159	However, if the Conservative rapporteur were to move out a little in fact at a normal workplace, he would also know that it is extremely difficult for a worker to prove that a work-related illness has been caused at a workplace • extremely difficult. I have been sitting with lots of cases where we simply could not lift the burden of proof, although everyone knew it and where the judge said: it sounds quite logical this, but proof it is not. And that means simply throwing the burden of proof on the worker. I don't know if it's hard rhetoric, but there are 2,000 Danish workers who die every year because of bad working conditions. Is the rapporteur not aware of this? That is why it is so important that we talk openly and honestly about what this problem is. It's about the life and health of a very large group of our people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182234	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182243	Yes, I am very aware of it, and that is why I say that we have made a new guide, which is actually a good step in the right direction, in relation to not having to document it now, but making it probable that it has happened in the workplace, and I think that is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182300	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182303	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with me. We are somewhere the top employers of public servants who we are asking to take on the front line and expose ourselves to the risk that it has been to work in, for example. The care sector throughout this went on top of some health guidelines that say that you don't need to use protective equipment. We're asking them to go out and expose themselves to this. Do they then have to prove that they have picked up the infection in connection with their work? Lifting the burden of proof can be completely impossible. Should we not ensure that those who actually subsequently become ill by this are also guaranteed the compensation that they should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182345	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182347	I have helped to say that front workers, people working in the health sector, have been heroes during the covid-19 crisis. They were very, very active in society, while others were sent home, and they should be appreciated for that. That is why I think it is a good thing that we have now agreed to change the guidance so that we no longer have to document, but make it probable that we have been infected at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182421	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182422	But if we now agree that we actually have a group here that has really done a huge job, which really should have huge recognition, could we not also agree to secure them so that they do not have to prove how they have become ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182440	I believe that we have come a very, very long way with the guidance. Here they only have to make it probable and not document it, and that is a big step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182450	There are no further questions or brief comments, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Naser Khader. The next thing we're gonna say is welcome is Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182459	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing this up. Basically, this is about the fact that we are faced with occupational injuries that we have not known in the past. And can we put this in a category like other work injuries, where you go to work, perhaps at a construction site, and physically get hurt? But this is different. It is somewhat more difficult when it comes to creating evidence of when it happened. I think it is right that a great many of the people who work in the care sector or in hospitals and elsewhere should have a fair and fair opportunity to recognise it if there is an occupational injury. Basically, we are not very optimistic, or if I have to put it in a quiet and calm way, there is room for improvement when we talk about occupational injuries and the whole system associated with it. We do not believe that it meets what a modern society should be like by 2020. When we then look at the specific motion for a resolution on proof, i.e. whether it should be reversed, and on whom the burden of proof should be based, it is clear, as other rapporteurs have said, that I also believe that the Danish People's Party recognises that it raises some problems, some dilemmas which I think we should discuss in greater detail. For where is the restriction in the reverse evidence, where is the probability? I understand when you refer to public employees, because it is clearer, but what about the person who has 2 hours of work or perhaps 5 hours of work behind a box in a grocery store, how can the merchant make it likely that it has happened there and not in her spare time, in the studio or on a ski holiday, if she has been, or anywhere else. There are a whole series of problems about these things that we are absolutely open to debating and discussing in New Citizens. The guidance that has come about regarding probability seems to us to be moving something out of the way, but there is room to move it further, so that it provides greater certainty, because it is a real concern that we hear out there, so that they do not feel safe about what is now. And when you don't feel safe about what is now, I think we also have a responsibility from in here to take it up and see if we can move closer to getting this comfort. Does this mean that there must be a complete change in it, so that it is completely reversed the burden of proof? I'm not sure that's the right solution, so we're gonna have to try to talk about that. However, we need some greater degree of protection from the concerns that are actually out there among some of our fellow citizens employed by the state, which is why we are employers for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182810	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182819	I understand the rapporteur's real expression that this creates dilemmas, as it does. But that's something special, I don't agree. It is something new, it is a new disease, it is a disease that cannot be traced back to a specific time, and you cannot find the person who has brought the disease, because there are a lot of people who have run around with the disease. In this way it is something new, but it is nothing special. From the history of occupational and occupational injury we can see that new chemicals, new vapours, new fibers and other things have come into use, and then you have become ill, and then we say: Oh, we haven't experienced this before. We've done that a lot of times. There have even been situations where employers have used, for example. It is also important for the Commission to take account of the fact that, in the case of asbestos, there were old reports which said that it is extremely dangerous and that a single fiber can cause cancer. So it's nothing new.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182924	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609182925	I would nevertheless like to maintain that this is a new way. Because if you, for example... as a carpenter has worked with asbestos in your profession, it is very likely that this is the way you have got the disease. By covid-19 we have no hundred percent sure way of documenting whether the woman who works at the box 2 hours in a store has got it by the 2 hours of work there, or whether she has got it through her studio where they have been together, or whether she has got it through the friends she is with, or in connection with the sport she is playing. So there may be a large number of areas where it is not easy to predict what the cause is and where it has happened. That is why I believe that these are new issues that we are facing, and we need to address them, and that is what we are trying to do with this guide. But is it so complete that one can be comforted with it? No, in fact, I do not think it is, which is why I also come to the Danish People's Party by saying that I think there is a need to look further at this. Have I determined whether this means that we should turn it around completely, as Enhedslisten believes? I haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183031	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183032	I said something wrong. Of course it's something new, it's a new disease we don't know. It's no big deal. When we discovered the dangerous effects of asbestos, many, including doctors, said that it probably originated from smoking or from some other stuff. That's what they said until you had it examined, but it took decades. When solvents were discovered in paints, for example, does the rapporteur know what doctors said at the time? They said painters are born dumber, or they drink more than others. That was the explanation back then. That is to say, there are plenty of marine explanations before we find the right factor, and therefore it may be necessary to reverse the burden of proof in some specific situations, which is why I welcome the doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183114-2	Oh, absolutely. I lived in the United States for a few years, but then I remember I was home to make some money and had to work at a fiberglass factory that made windmills, and there I talked to their trust representative, and she asked me what to do. I study and things like that, I answered. Are you so sure you're gonna work here? 'Cause don't do that too long, she said. It is such a story that there are some things that we should have addressed, and I think we should do so in this area too, so that we should listen to the concerns of nurses, health professionals and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183152	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. And the next person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183207	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. When I had to prepare for this debate, I tried to look up the Social Security website and see what is actually in there today about infection with covid-19. And it says: "Infect with COVID-19, also called Coronavirus, in any case, after a specific assessment, can be recognised as an occupational injury, either as an accident at work or as an occupational disease. Commonly occurring viral diseases such as: common influenza cannot normally be recognised as an occupational injury. This is because there is a significant risk of being infected outside the work situation and therefore there is no likelihood that the infection is a consequence of the conditions of the work. This will apply to most cases of COVID-19. In order to recognise COVID-19 as an occupational injury, it must therefore be possible to establish that the person has been exposed to a specific occupational infection or that the victim is exposed to a particular risk associated with his work. Then I thought it was obvious that it might be true if you work in a covid-19 department at the hospital and are in daily contact with the infected, but what if you are out in the care, out in people's own homes? And we know today that there are also covid-19-infected without symptoms. We can look back on staff groups such as nurses and sosu assistants who have been at work in care without using the appropriate protective equipment, because we had guidelines and instructions that said: You should not use them. So they did not do so, and perhaps not, because there was not enough protective equipment to do so. But the consequence is that we have large groups of staff who go around and are worried, who are not sure whether this is ever recognised as a work injury without having the calming, without having the security that we in the Danish People's Party think we should be able to give them. I would like to thank you very much for the debate and for the many speeches that have been made, especially of course for the support of the SF and the Enhedslisten and also for the agreement on the concerns of the New Citizens' Party, because it also tells me that there is an opportunity to look at how this could be done. But then I am really, really sorry that the rest of the Folketing will not be part of it and say: we actually have to take responsibility for this. We have to say, as a society, that here there are some that we do not guarantee well enough, which we impose a burden of proof. The risk is, of course, that when we have to take up nursing training, in so-called assistant training, there will be more people who do not choose it because they are worried. Why should they stand up and put themselves at this risk if we do not even as a society want to take responsibility for giving them the certainty that if they get sick during their work, we will protect them too, and then we will ensure that they get the compensation they need. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183454	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183512	The debate is open. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609183542	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. Today we are debating motion for a resolution B 173, which requires the government to initiate calculations of construction costs by setting up double tracks between Tinglev and Padborg before 1 July, and subsequently the government will have to submit the calculations. In the explanatory statement to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the Left highlight the creation of a double track between Tinglev and Padborg as a very important construction project. And before I go into substance, I should like to begin by saying that I think, frankly, that the motion for a resolution may sound a little hollow, given that just over a year ago the party of the proposer was a very central part of a government which presented an investment plan which did not provide a single penny for either the study or the construction of a double track between Tinglev and Padborg. If you read the investment plan, you will see that the project is not actually mentioned at all, not even as a possible project in the longer term or something worth looking into. This despite the fact that the investment plan contained new initiatives for 68.4 billion. kr. out of a total investment level of 112.7 billion. kr. in roads and railways. I think we'll just leave that for a second. As I have informed the Danish Parliament on several occasions, the construction of double-tracks between Tinglev and Padborg has not been studied in detail since 1993, and since then a number of essential assumptions have changed, not least of course, in relation to the signal programme, and it will therefore also be necessary to carry out a new study before a decision can be made on the project. I have said in several contexts that, before the negotiations on a future Green Infrastructure Agreement, I will ensure that information is available on what a new study will cost and would have to include, in other words, a comprehensive approach to how to proceed with the project at study level. This is still the case, I would like to say here today. Whether or not, on the basis of the presentation for a new study and presentations for other studies, we should initiate a study of the double track between Tinglev and Padborg will ultimately be a priority issue and depends in the nature of the matter on what is supported in the Folketing. When we discuss this today, of course, I also assume that it can give me some pointers on the direction in which the Folketing is aiming. In the explanatory statement to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion state that the single-track line between Tinglev and Padborg today constitutes a bottleneck. It is, in fact, true that a double track will always be more robust, i.e. ensuring a greater robustness and a less vulnerability than a single track, it lies in the nature of the matter. However, it should be noted, for the sake of good order, that Banedanmark considers that it will be possible to handle more traffic than what is today. In fact, an increase in passenger and freight traffic of up to 40% could be dealt with. Towards 2030. However, as I said, a double-track railway is always more robust than a single-track railway. If we take into account that in the future there will be a certain likelihood of more train traffic going through South Jutland, not least international train traffic, then the creation of a double track can therefore be a project that is so far in perspective. However, it is too early to take a position on the project at this stage, as it should be seen and prioritised in an overall context, i.e. in the context of an overall priority for an investment plan. I also note that the proposers have not proposed how a new study should be financed. A new study at the level desired by the proposers calls for funding. It is therefore unclear to me how the proposers imagine that by 1 July we will have to find the means for a new study. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that, when we are longer in the work on the climate action plans, I look forward to discussing the long-term investments in infrastructure with the parties of the Folketing. Given the author's interest in double-tracking, I assume that this is something that the Left will bring up in the negotiations on a new green infrastructure agreement. I am counting on that, even if one sometimes gets the impression that it is the case in the Left that it is the turn of the roads rather than the railroad sign. I therefore look forward to discussing with the Left and all the other parties of the Danish Parliament how we can lift the railways as well as the road network and cycle paths in Denmark as best we can. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184051	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184056	Thank you. After all, it is disheartening to hear that the Minister for Transport, who has even been elected in South and South Jutland, has now suddenly entered into such a ministerial role, which is no longer in line with what was meant before the elections, and has already expressed a favourable opinion on the construction of a double track between Tinglev and Padborg. That's too bad. The double track has been included in all of the Left's infrastructure plans. It is true that it was not part of the agreement that was made with not just the Left, but, of course, with the blue parties before the elections. Similarly, it was not included in the Togfonden DK, of which the Transport Minister's own party was part back in 2013. But I would really like to ask the Minister of Transport whether the Minister of Transport does not think that, in the same way, there is also to be able to dispose of money for example. The completion of the double track is needed for up-to-date calculations and it seems rather strange that the Minister of Transport refuses to make an updated basis for decisions in writing and here today in the Chamber, so that the parties of the Folketing can make decisions on an informed basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184205	Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184207	A study of that extent will at least look like a vvm study, and it costs money. And the proposer, together with the other proposers, did not tell us how to find the 15-25 million. kr., which such an investigation is estimated to cost. I remember that a representative of the previous government had a sign on his desk saying: where should the money come from? And that question could rightly be put to the proposers in this context. But that does not change, as I have indicated, that this is something that will be included in the discussions on the future infrastructure plan. And if it is not to be accommodating to the proposers, I am actually a little in doubt about what would then have to be accommodating to be quite honest. I honestly do not believe that an experienced politician who has tried to be a minister had imagined that an infrastructure agreement would be possible and that a project such as this could be concluded in a different way than in an overall infrastructure agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184316	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184318	Well, I just have to point out to the Minister for Transport that the party I represent and the government that was before the Minister actually put down no less than 112 billion. kr. to an overall infrastructure plan, where there were also a number of pools to conduct feasibility studies, pools to investigate some projects. So when the Minister of Transport says that no money has been set aside, then it is simply not right and the Minister of Transport knows that too. There were available funds for e.g.: studies in the infrastructure plan put forward by the previous government. However, I really think it is a pity that the Minister for Transport in this Chamber today is so clearly rejecting the need for an up-to-date basis. This is, in fact, the basis on which the Folketing can make the right decisions as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184358	No, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There is not a pool of funds from the previous government that we can use for this. If it were the case that there was a pool of funds from which to draw 15-25 million. kr., the proposers would probably also have assigned the funding to it. That is why, of course, the question remains: is this not the wish of the Left Party that the rapporteur, Ellen Trane Nørby, will bring to the negotiating table? I look forward, of course, to clarifying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184430	Thank you. And the next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184432	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Compared to the years I have now been in Parliament, I remember that this fight has been going on for all the years. And I have also been able to see, when I have been digging into it, that it has even been going on for even longer than I have been in the Folketing. Sometimes there are some battles where you think that it's really strange that you can't finish them and get things straight. And I actually think that is one of the things I would like to ask a little bit about, including here with the Minister. I also remember that the Minister himself fought these battles. This is typical when you sit in the opposition and when you get into government yourself, you may change your position and attitude, and then things get a little quieter. I would like to ask the Minister directly: does the Minister not think that it would be obvious that we have now finished this and that we should not continue to fight the same battle in 5-10 years' time? So is the Minister prepared that we should try to solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184536	However, I have already indicated that it will be the case that if the Left wishes to be part of an agreement on infrastructure, it will appear at a negotiating table around an infrastructure agreement which is expected to take 10 years in the future, there will be an opportunity to negotiate it here. I do not know whether the Left brings it to the negotiating table. I can see that the Left Transport rapporteur is certainly not present in the Chamber, but we have to see that on the day of the negotiations. And then it is clear that if there is a broad majority of parties wishing to prioritise it, then it will be one of the projects that can be implemented, despite the fact that it was not a project that had been carried out under the previous government's plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184622	Anni Matthiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184624	Thank you. So I would just like to ask briefly: is this something that the Minister wants to bring into the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184634	Yes, all the time that I have already indicated to the Danish Parliament a great many times that there will be a basis for decision on which to decide, in other words, whether to go ahead with this at the negotiating table. So yes, but it will also be the case that if there is not a broad majority for it as with all sorts of other infrastructure projects it will obviously be nothing. That is why it is probably also a question which the rapporteur has to ask in his own parliamentary group, in other words whether this is something that the Left brings to the negotiating table as a priority wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184706	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184711	After all, it is such a rather strange debate to discuss whether a calculation can be made, because in the nine years that I have been rapporteur on transport, both the Road Directorate and Banedanmark have always been ready to make a calculation, of course with a lot of reservations. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister if we could not get an estimate of the cost of this railway and then write it into a report in committee so that the people and, above all, the scoundrels can be told what is at least the best estimate of what such a railway will cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184753	It is of course the case that the most recent construction estimate and that there is uncertainty associated with, there has not been an updated vvm survey etc. kr. It is clear that, in any case, a new vvm will have to be created if it is the case that you have to go ahead with the project. On the question of whether a joint report on it could be drawn up in committee, I would say: yes, certainly. Because if it is the case that there is a majority of parties who think that it makes sense what I have said, so that this may be an element that is part of the discussions on a future investment plan, then I see no problem in the fact that a joint report on it is being written.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184844	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184851	Thank you. It is something about life being lived forward, but it must be understood backwards, and I think the Minister of Transport agrees with me that this is something that many politicians both love and hate, perhaps especially the latter. However, I would like to ask the Minister in relation to this point of looking backwards, if the Minister can recall that the Minister himself has proposed exactly the same motion for a resolution as what the Danish Parliament is discussing today, just 13 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184929	Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609184930	After all, this is a proposal which has had a great many phrases over time, and that is why the closest thing we are going to do is to move forward in that process, I suppose, also that it will actually be on a negotiating table at a future infrastructure debate. But if this leads to a broad majority in the Folketing deciding that it is also a proposal to be promoted, then we must see when we reach the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185003	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185005	Thank you. But we could also choose to go further back. We can actually choose to go back to 1993, when the same proposal was also under consideration and for study and debate here in the Folketing. We have actually been through 14 transport ministers, I think we are up to, over the 26 years. Will the Minister of Transport inform the Danish Parliament of what makes the Minister of Transport not think the same as politician Benny Engelbrecht?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185039	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby Excuse me, sir. Here you go, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185041	There's been a construction law. His Kristian Skibby is absolutely right in the end and therefore it is about whether you choose to prioritise the plant resources that will be needed. And as I answered Mr. Andreas Steenberg before, it is probably not that far from the estimate that has been made in the past, that is to say about the 800 million. kr. It may be a little plus, it may be a little minus, and there may be some different considerations to take into account when creating a new signal system. However, we should at least expect it to be in that position if we as a party wish to give priority to this in a future infrastructure debate, and then it is clear that there may then be some other projects that we cannot implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185128	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Transport. Now we go to the rapporteur's speeches, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185143	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. After all, freight transport is an important part of Danish export and import capacity, and it is important that Denmark has the opportunity to send our goods out into the world via aircraft, ships, trucks and, of course, also by rail. That is why I am also pleased that the Left, with this motion for a resolution, is showing their support for the railways as an important part of the Danish transport sector. It's new tones from that edge. The transport sector of the future must be green and it must contribute more to Denmark's achievement of the 2030 target of a 70-percent reduction in CO2 that is at the left, and I hope the Left will continue to agree with that. Therefore, it is also crucial that future investment in infrastructure is based on an overall view of the general infrastructure in Denmark. Therefore, it does not make sense to take specific projects for calculations and priorities until we have an overall view in place. The debate on the route between Tinglev and Padborg is an old but nevertheless important debate. However, there has not been a real study since 1993 of the cost of extending the line by double track. That is why there will have to be some completely new calculations of the possible extension of the track, which is also what the Left is proposing in this motion for a resolution. It is clear that the calculation of the calibre proposed here by the Left is not free of charge, and therefore there is also a need for an active political choice to initiate such a calculation on the basis of an indicated cost basis. The Minister of Transport has mentioned earlier that prior to the invitation to negotiations on a green infrastructure plan, the necessary basis and pricing will be presented for a study on the expansion of Tinglev-Padborg. And then, in the negotiations, the parties must give priority to whether they wish to proceed with such an investment. I am surprised, however, that the Left Party is now showing great interest in the extension of the Tinglev-Padborg route, because this particular stretch was not mentioned with a word in the Blue Infrastructure Plan, of which the Left itself was part when they sat in government in 2019. It is estimated that the capacity on the line could be increased by 40%. towards 2030, so to call it a bottleneck, as the Left puts it, is perhaps just a political tightening. Having said that, the debate and the reflection on enlargement are important and therefore also require the right basis for decision-making. We can decide together whether we want that when negotiations on a green infrastructure plan are called for. And since the Minister for Transport has already expressed in a previous debate that a basis will be provided for deciding whether to calculate a possible widening of the double track between Tinglev and Padborg, we see no reason in the Social Democracy to support this motion for a resolution. I think it was a good tone and a good proposal that came from the radical rapporteur on a possible report in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and I would like to take an active part in that work as rapporteur. And then I look forward to discussing the priorities for a future green infrastructure plan, where I expect the Left to bring this proposal in as one of the party's top priorities. Finally, I would also like to ask the Left whether they believe that such a study is free of charge. In fact, the Left is committing an injustice by not financing this proposal in any way in the resolution. So the question is whether it is just a test balloon or whether it is a serious proposal from the Left. At the end of the day, I must give an unexpected greeting to him, who himself thought it would be a little unexpected. But since the Liberal Alliance's transport rapporteur, Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, unfortunately could not be in the Chamber today, should I say that the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185548	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185553	Thank you. The rapporteur refers to the economic aspects of this, i.e. that we do not really know how many million such a project will cost in present-day crowns, and that, of course, these are old figures, if you go out and look at figures that are all the way back from 1993. However, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with the Danish People's Party that it would make very good sense for us to have already examined the conditions under which it is possible to obtain EU funding from the CEF, that is, development funds, for this project. Because we know that CEF funding is actually typically given to this type of project, which is also something of an international nature, and something that will add value to the overall European transport system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185654	I think it would be a really, very good idea and quite natural for us to decide, in a broad conciliation, to go this way in the long term, to invest in double-tracks, to go in and see what opportunities there are for getting funds from the European Union for this. So I think that is a very good proposal that we should draw into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185717	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185719	I do not think the rapporteur really answered my question. I asked the rapporteur whether the Socialists felt that it would be a good idea to do so now, that is to say to have this put into practice and examined. It does not, of course, cost many kroner, as some have claimed, to examine what the conditions and the premise would be in terms of being able to obtain a partial financing of this project, with a view to obtaining funds from the Infrastructure Fund CEF, which goes precisely to this type of development project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185753	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185754	I'm gonna be honest with you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and reveal my ignorance of what the right timing will be for seeking such means, but I believe that there must be a basis for decision among the rapporteurs before we begin to seek funds. It is not to be too polemical, but I know that the Danish People's Party has a bit more creativity and experience in seeking pool funds than we other parties here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185821	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185825	Thank you. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur for the speech. In his speech, the rapporteur said that it makes no sense to take specific projects for calculation. So I just have to hear the rapporteur: does that mean that the rapporteur actually disagrees with the rapporteur's own minister, because that is what the minister himself did before he became a minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185850	Here you go, Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185852	No, what the Minister has said in the past and indicated today is that you will be able to make a calculation of this when we start with the negotiations. And I think that would be a very good thing, because then, in the light of it, we will be able to take a joint decision on the future. What I generally think about taking out individual projects is that we are now beginning to see that there are various initiatives coming from the Left. Now we need to get this project up and running. I do not know whether next week we will have some other projects in North Jutland or on Zealand to turn up in this Chamber. And there is my appeal just to the Left and the Confederal Group of the European United Left: Should we not now make sure that when we get down and start the infrastructure negotiations, we will have to decide on an overall perspective of the need in Denmark to remove many of the problems that citizens are experiencing, with congestion on some sections, and to see it in the light of the green agenda to reduce CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185957	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609185958	Thank you. Just to try to get the rapporteur to perhaps become a little more specific: do we have to understand that the Socialists actually want to give priority to the project here, so that, like after 26 years of struggle, we may finally get things done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190019	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190020	It must be understood that when we enter into infrastructure negotiations, we must see such a project as this in conjunction with other projects for roads and railroads and in relation to different parts of the country and also in relation to our relations with neighbouring Germany, of course. And at first sight I think it is a project that looks exciting and interesting, but I cannot stand here and guarantee that it is something that is going to happen, because it is of course about what we can agree on together for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190052	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190056	Thank you. I fully agree with my good colleague from the Danish People's Party that it is essential that we have clarification, including in relation to the European CEF funds. Well, the Minister for Transport has also answered Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen and myself, as well as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, in relation to these questions. And the condition that you can go into an application process at all and also do it here relevant is of course 1) that we get an updated basis, and 2) that we also think about this Scandinavian-Mediterranean transport corridor, where the double track is located; also to see how much we expect a construction cost to be on the Danish side. It is, of course, dependent on whether or not we can have European support. But what I really wanted to ask is: when the Socialists' rapporteur says that we should not have a basis for calculation for independent projects, then I just want to hear why there should be a basis for calculation and a feasibility study and a vvm study for the Kattegat connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190158	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190158-2	But we must, of course, decide in a debate on what kind of projects we can all agree on here between the parties of the Danish Parliament to invest in. Now there will be some provisional figures before we start the negotiations so that, on the basis of this, we can negotiate well. Is this a priority? Do you have to do a big study on this? If we decide that Tinglev-Padborg should be investigated, vvm-examined and everything that should happen in that order, then let us take it by then, so that we have a clear and enlightened basis on which to make decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190239	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190240	Well, I understand that the rapporteur speaks out, because the Socialist Government has, after all, launched feasibility studies on other projects and updated the basis for calculating other projects. So it must be an expression of the fact that the Socialist Government simply does not support an update of the calculations on the double track, and I think that is really a pity. If you look at Vamdrup-Vojens, i.e. the first part of the double track that we launched as a VK government back in 2009, you can see that 760 million were set aside. DKK, but the construction cost ended up at 552 million. kr. When you see the big difference, does it give the more basis for an up-to-date calculation of what it will cost to build the last part?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190318	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190319	But we have a good tradition of deciding these things and taking decisions on an enlightened basis in the transport policy circles. I would just like to say that it seems a little hollow to me that the rapporteur of the Left here today is puffing himself up like this when this was not part of the infrastructure agreement that was made a year ago, where the Left was the big government party, or at least the largest. Then it is fine if the Left has come to the conclusion that it should now be the policy of the Left, and if it is the policy of the Left, the policy of the whole group, then that is fine. But I just have to say that in the Blue Investment Plan, which was not supported by the voters, this project did not appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190401	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Thomas Jensen. At least you can't swear from the platform. The next one to which I am going to give the floor is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190443	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite happy that the Left has chosen to debate a concrete proposal for infrastructure improvements in Denmark, and this is a proposal that makes good sense. So thank you for that. We also agree that the motion for a resolution contains an instruction to the current Minister for Transport to start providing data, etc. in terms of making the project come true. But I would now like to say from the outset that you are allowed to have different positions if you are radical, but I do not actually have the impression that the Minister of Transport is. That is why I think it is a good thing that we can be able to adopt so many different positions over so many years on exactly the same fundamental question, regardless of whether we sit in government or we sit in opposition, but that is nevertheless the case, at least in relation to this proposal. The Socialists tabled back in 2007 a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament which would oblige the then Blue Government to do exactly the same as is stated in this motion for a resolution. Today, 13 years later, yes, it has to be said that opinions have now changed in relation to the approach to what is going to happen with this proposal for capital investment to ensure a better international rail network through Denmark. In the view of the Danish People's Party, this is one of the places where we have a bottleneck. This is one of the areas where there are greater challenges than elsewhere if you use roadway for the distribution of goods. We really think it makes sense to bring the last piece of the rail network from southern Italy up to the northernmost of Scandinavia, so that it becomes a more coherent double track. That is why we also think that the government should show a little more willingness to get this particular proposal launched, instead of once again proving to be such a recurring eternity machine: when you are red, you mean something. When you're blue, you mean something else. When you're in government, you mean something, and when you're not in government, you mean something else. Perhaps I do not think we can be quite familiar as a parliament. The citizens, the voters, the companies, the municipalities, the regions all have, I think, in the Danish People's Party, a generally legitimate need to know where they have the different political parties. That is why, we think, it is a pity that we could not find some kind of break-up after 14 different transport ministers and 23 years of hard work on the proposal. I have asked the Minister of Transport some questions in the past. It was actually back here, I think, on 29 April when the Minister replied to me in May. I wanted the Minister's assessment of whether it is possible to achieve a higher level of EU co-financing for this proposal, precisely because it is a proposal that has advantages for more than just Denmark in relation to our interests. The Minister has actually replied clearly in his reply that there are two different places where it can make extra sense and where there is a greater likelihood of getting EU funding for it. One is that the project is located on the TEN-T core network. I do not know how to pronounce it, but it is of course this main transport network on the railway that goes from Scandinavia all the way down to the Mediterranean. That's what you do with this project. And the second, which the Minister has given me an answer to, is that it must also be a project that can make it visible that it will attribute a European added value to the overall infrastructure. In other words, there is a common interest in the project. In this respect too, I think that this proposal is quite a fugitive. So we would like to appeal to the Government and the Left not to agree that this is actually a good proposal that is being pushed through thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609190956	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191001	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party something. After all, we very much agree that there is a need for an up-to-date basis for decision-making, also in the light of the possibility of obtaining CEF II funds, because it is part of the corridor between the Mediterranean and Scandinavia, but of course basically because if we are to take decisions in this Parliament we have to take them on an enlightened basis. I asked the Socialist rapporteur earlier that we know from the construction project launched under the VK government back in 2009 and completed a few years later that out of the funds allocated, the 760 million. kr., actually ended up costing only 552 million. kr. When there is already such a difference on a stretch of 20 km and now we are talking about completing a stretch of 12, 14 km, depending on how the line is to be drawn, is there any more need for an up-to-date basis for the Folketing to make real decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191106	Yes, absolutely. That is also why I have taken note of the reply that I have received from the Minister for Transport, where the Minister for Transport clearly writes on page 2: I will ensure, before the negotiations on a new green investment plan, that information is available on what a new study on the creation of double tracks between Tinglev and Padborg will cost and have to include. I think with all due respect that if you want to get as big a project into a plant negotiation, it is also important that you try to prepare as well as possible. That is also why I believe that if you now have the opportunity to make that decision today to get concrete form and content • what we want and what it is, it may, overall, end up being for a size of fixed capital investment • then it actually makes sense to get it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191203	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191205	Thank you. One can hear from the rapporteur's speech that it was not due to the Danish People's Party, and in the case of the Left it was also included in the Left's prioritization paper before the VLAK government's prioritization paper. And when one hears the Socialist rapporteur refer to the fact that the Liberal Alliance does not want to support it, one can then judge for oneself who it was in the negotiations that drew in the direction that we should not have a focus on the double track. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that out of the 112 billion. kr., for which we made a joint agreement before the election, there was a pool to conduct studies, e.g. studies and new bases of assessment such as those we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191243	That is absolutely correct. This is one of the terms of the agreement. And so it is also the case that the same agreement on infrastructure channeled around one third of the total funding for rail and public transport in particular. So I actually think that if you want to, there is also a way in this case to find a common understanding. That is also why I think it is a pity that we have this deadlocked situation, where the government, just tormented, will not give in to something that the government itself thinks is sensible when it sits in opposition. And we do not understand that in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191317	Sir. Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191319	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. I just have a short question. Now that the rapporteur is saying that this is a project which must be given priority by the Danish People's Party, why was it not included in the Blue Infrastructure Plan which the Blue Parties signed last year, when at the same time they chose to give priority to the Mariager bypass?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191342	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191343	Well, the reason why you chose to give priority to a bypass at Mariager, if we're finally gonna pick up the old travert again, and I know that Mr. Thomas Jensen's love was, of course, that we knew it was something the Social Democrats wanted and actually wanted since back in the 1970s. And it also emerged, when the Social Democrats presented their own infrastructure plan in May, that one of the biggest points on page 4 was the completely blissful bypass around Mariager ^ it was a cardinal point for the royal social democracy. And that's how the political winds blow. It was not a greater wish for the Danish People's Party than it was for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191421	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191421-2	Now the rapporteur does not need to involve the Social Democrats in the Blue Agreement. It was the blue parties that made a block political agreement on how more than 100 billion would be spent. kr. on infrastructure in Denmark. So why did the Danish People's Party choose not to give priority to this project, which is now being supported, but instead to support that bypass at Mariager?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191450	Yes, but so, I think the questioner should be aware, if the questioner is not already it is now he is also a new rapporteur, as I myself am, that it was actually something that was part of the Social Democrats' own transport policy proposal that a new bypass should be built around Mariager. I understand that the Socialists did not want to hold onto all honour and respect for it; the Socialists must do so. But it is not the case that it was a cardinal point for the Danish People's Party that there should be a bypass. In fact, it was a broad desire from a host of different stakeholders through the negotiations that were also held by social democratic mayors in the area, among others. Mariager knows where you've wanted it since the 1970s.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191533	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191537	I just stumbled over a remark in which Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby just like that said that the government is incredibly locked and won't give in to this. And I do not think that is quite fair when you hear what the Minister of Transport has actually said, both here from the platform, but also earlier in different contexts, that is to say you are actually willing to provide funds that will then have to update what it is that the studies that created the basis for decision-making have to contain. It is certainly not to be locked; on the contrary, it is to be said that this is something that one is really interested in going ahead with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191619-2	That part of the discussion, I think, is that Mr. Henning Hyllested must look in the context of what has previously been meant in the same party that sits in all the ministerial posts today. And that is where I think it is necessary to assess what has been done in the past: what has been said in the past and what has been specifically proposed in the past? And there is just the fact that we in the Danish People's Party say that it is a paradox that a motion for a resolution has previously been adopted in the same way as the resolution we are debating today, just 13 years ago, when the present Minister for Transport was a member of the Folketing and was one of the proposers on behalf of the Socialists when they were in opposition. So I would now like to express that criticism, even here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191711	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191713	Yes, but I simply cannot see that there should be any difference. So, what the Social Democrats have proposed back in 2006, yes, they have proposed that. And I can see nothing but that what the Minister of Transport is doing now is going further along that path. Then, of course, we can assess: are we taking too small steps at a time? Is it really necessary to first provide some means to examine what is to be investigated? I don't know, but I think you have to take it in the order it necessarily comes in. What is important is that, when we start these infrastructure negotiations, we have an up-qualified basis for decision-making. And that's what I think the Minister of Transport is going after right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191752	Yes, but that part of it I have actually stood here and spent my speaking time reading out the Minister's reply that the Minister will make the concrete assessments before negotiating a new green investment plan. But I just don't think that changes the fact that when you mean something in opposition and you even become a one-party government, people sitting around in Denmark philosophing about what politicians are proposing before they are elected and what they do when they have gained power will think that there is a big difference between the two relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191827	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker will be the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609191840	Thank you. I can at least see here in the Chamber that there is a lot of ruffles present, and it could also be that there was a single ruffle or two who have followed out behind the screens or go in afterwards and look at what we have been discussing. That is why I think it is important to say that the desire to invest both in this railway, but also in South Jutland as a whole, has been heard, not least for the reason that the voters in South Jutland and South Jutland have had some representatives elected in all parties who are really fighting for their territory. I think that is important to say here, and that is also what this debate is about. I have also noticed, when you look at the last 10 years of investment in infrastructure, that not much has gone to South Jutland. It's taken in. A lot has gone to the South Jutland metropolitan area, but not to South Jutland. In addition to being a transport rapporteur, I am also a rapporteur for foreigners, which is why I have been dealing in recent months and weeks with all this border issue and the closure of the border which has been introduced and which we in Radicals are very much opposed to. My now deceased father grew up in Haderslev, so I knew it probably well in advance, but this discussion about the border closure has in any case highlighted the importance of mobility in the border country for Northern Germany, of course, but also for South Jutland and Denmark. Therefore, I understand that you are sitting in South Jutland and that it is strange that exactly the last piece of railway down to the border is not double tracked yet. I also think it will be possible to see that both for Aarhus Harbour, which loads a lot of goods on trains, but also for the triangular area in Taulov and, of course, Padborg, where a lot of goods are also loaded on trains, this has a certain significance for the export of goods to Germany, of course, but also all of Europe. So the call has been heard. When the Minister for Transport was up here, I asked him if we could not find a solution to this debate and this motion for a resolution, by writing in committee a report to tell us what this railway costs. As I recall, the Minister for Transport replied that it costs 800 million. kr. Then we know what it is to work for the many people who care about getting this railroad done, and I hope that you can close it down. Then I also hope that as soon as possible when the parties are ready for it we can make this broad agreement in the Danish Parliament on infrastructure and not least the conversion of transport to renewable energy, so that the citizens around Denmark, both South Jutland and Copenhagen and everywhere else, can soon know what it is that the Danish Parliament intends to build infrastructure for the next 10 years, so that we can move forward in the discussion and also get some of the projects that could be a good idea. So I hope that in the work of the committee we can agree to make a report on having that calculation written in so that everyone has it to work from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192214	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Andreas Steenberg, so he needs to stay here. Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192219	Thank you. I am pleased that the radical rapporteur also stresses that if we want to have greener transport and also use the combined terminals we have to reload more from road to rail, then having sufficient capacity is also where there are single tracks today also part of it. I would actually like to ask the radical rapporteur about this estimate which, if you look back at the answers, comes from the screening made by Atkins back in 2013. Does the rapporteur not agree that in order for this Parliament to make proper decisions, we need to be able to do so on an enlightened basis? And when you know that the first double-track route through Vamdrup and Vojens, which the VK government decided to complete in 2009, which is approx. 20 km long, estimated to cost 760 million. kr., but ended up at about 550 million. kr., then it is relevant to consider whether a 12-mile stretch could really cost up to 800 million. kr., when the second stretch turned out not to be so expensive. Isn't it a non-justifying basis for this Parliament to make decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192333	In fact, I believe that the information provided by the Minister of Transport on the 800 million, as I recall. kr., is enough to be able to decide to build that railroad. I was rapporteur when we decided to set up the Train Fund DK and there among others. a track was made for Billund, and there were, at least as far as I remember, no feasibility studies and vvm on many of the projects in Togfonden DK, but there was an estimate from Banedanmark which provided the basis for that money to be set aside. So I think it is a good idea to use that figure to say that if there was a majority in favour, 800 million could be set. kr. If it were to turn out that it would be cheaper when you went further down the road or got on track, if I may say so, then you could save that money and spend it on something else. I think you can use what the Minister of Transport told us about to make that decision, if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192428	After all, the completion of the dual track was not included in the train fund to which the rapporteur refers. Instead, you would smash the entire Vejle Fjord area by building another bridge to save a lot, very few minutes. My question is actually: does the rapporteur believe that there is a greater likelihood of political agreement if there is an estimate of 800 million? kr., than if there is an estimate of e.g. 300 million kr., as players from Danish Industry have been out to say enough, is the more reasonable price for what it will cost to complete the double track?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192504	Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192505	The most crucial thing is that the good colleagues elected in South Jutland stand together and get this lifted, also with local communities, city councils, regional councils, etc. I think that is the most important thing. It is clear, of course, that it will help if it costs 300 million. kr. instead of 800 million. kr. It's usually the way we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192539	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192543	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech, which brought us back in South Jutland, so thank you for that. One of the things that we, elected in Southern Denmark, have felt, even since the rapporteur's colleague has joined the Danish Parliament, during the period when Mrs Lotte Rod is on leave, is that there is at least one in Radicals who has fought hard to get it through here. In fact, I just need to ask the rapporteur on the platform whether he also agrees with what Nils Sjøberg has been saying, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192628-2	In any case, I can confirm that South Jutland's questions have never been discussed as much in the radical group as in the past. Nils Sjøberg has come in, and I would urge that colleagues from South Jutland speak up and join us, because there is a super representative of South Jutland in the radical group. I haven't read everything Mr. Nils Sjøberg has told the media in South Jutland that I am not going to stand here and say that, but at least, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, I support the view that it is strange that the double track has not been completed in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192710	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192711	Finally, perhaps I just need to get either a yes or a no from the rapporteur. If we put this motion for a resolution to the vote, will the Radical Left vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192725-2	If we have made a report in which there is a calculation of what the double track costs and where the answer has been given, then I assume that nothing will be put to the vote. At least I don't think that makes any sense. I hope that the Left will think a little bit before doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192747	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. I do not see a representative from the SF immediately, so I shall give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609192813	Thank you. Basically, we think it is a very good proposal, but we also think it is unfortunate that it is being put forward as it does here. Why? After all, what party have we reached now that we do not want to have the double track in South Jutland completed? I think the vast majority of the parties in here would like to do that. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, I can say that we have repeatedly proposed that it be completed, if I may say so, with the Tinglev-Padborg section. We proposed it the last time when Vamdrup-Vojens was finished in 2015 and then we said: Why not move the entire project organisation south and start from Tinglev to Padborg? Now we weren't part of the settlement around Vamdrup-Vojens, so I guess it wasn't taken quite seriously, but I thought it was weird and weird. Of course, you might ask: Why has nothing happened in the 26-27 years that have passed? Because there have actually been several occasions. The Train Foundation DK has been mentioned sometimes, and the gods must know that Hans Christian Schmidt, who is also from South Jutland, has criticized us from time to time in the Togfonden DK and not least me for why we did not include it in the Togfonden DK, and he is quite right about that. We could have done so far as we could have done. Now the Togfonden DK was mostly about realising the hour model, but we could have done so, and at the same time we could have done so, and I have also done so, and asked Hans Christian Schmidt and the conciliation parties in the great transport conciliation from 2009, why it was not there. There was Vamdrup-Vojens with it, but why didn't you bring the whole stretch, that is, on the other side, from Tinglev to Padborg? It is also true, as the debate has shown, that Tinglev-Padborg was also not included in the former government's traffic plan, and in many ways this illustrates, in fact, the lack of overall planning that we have in the transport sector, especially when we are talking about rail. Vojens-Tinglev finished 1996, then Vamdrup-Vojens arrived in 2015, and now we are missing the last. It is such a mare from tue to tue, and it is actually a very good illustration of how stepmotherly a treatment we have given the railway, and if you have any doubt about it, you just have to read the service that has just come from the railway. That's sad reading, isn't it? So you can say that over the years the words of the law have been very many from virtually all sides, but that it has become very little concrete action when it comes to the last stretch from Tinglev to Padborg. There have been a number of meetings lately, and I was at a meeting, as it referred to as Mr. Nils Sjøsted had called where only me and Hans Christian Schmidt showed up. There has been a meeting since then in which I could not come, but I gave my undertaking that I supported the efforts, and the effort was that we should all, all parties, just like to stand together, and there were a number of members of parliament from South Jutland who were taking the lead here, and I think that is a very good idea. I also think that this motion for a resolution shows a little bit of profiling. It's like you want to be the two-tracker now, and I can't quite understand that. I think that the authors of the motion for a resolution are, in some way, kicking in an open door, and I also think that the answers given to questions 10 and 367 show that the Minister of Transport clearly indicates that he wants to find some means and is in the process of finding some means so that we can analyse what needs to be done by analysis, and what do I know so that we can have a proper basis for decision-making when we have to have the infrastructure negotiations. I suspect and expect them to take place during the autumn, perhaps in parallel with or at the end of the climate negotiation plans in the transport sector. So I cannot quite understand that we are going to be dealing with this resolution at this stage. I think that there is a basis for the Minister of Transport to come up with what several people have supported, as far as I hear it because there is such broad support in the Danish Parliament, to make this report, and I think we should try to work on that at this stage. I think that something really sensible can come out of this, so that we have a proper basis for decision when we have to decide whether or not we want to give this priority here, and I have no doubt for a moment about the statements that have been made that this will be a priority in a new infrastructure plan. So that way, I'm pretty confident. Then I should like to say from the SF that they also think that, as I have said, an open door is being kicked in and that they are working to produce a report in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193332	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There's a brief comment, so he needs to stay up here for a second. And the radical member is Mr. Nils Sjø berg Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193347	Thank you. I share the view of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there has been no limit to how much Mr. Nils Sjøberg has at least announced on behalf of the Radical Left that it would be supported here when it has been about gatherings in South and South Jutland. There have been other tones in this Chamber today, and that is sometimes the case. I appreciate that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite honest in that Enhedslisten was outside the agreement when we built the first part of the double track, from Vamdrup to Vojens, and therefore the only party that ended up standing outside. That is why I perhaps also have this concern that it will remain in the speech and not take action in this area. That is why I really want to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur: if this proposal is now put to the vote and we really have to vote in this Chamber on whether it is reasonable for a government to provide a proper basis for a Parliament, will the Enhedslisten support the proposal that we have put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193449	No, we will not, and we will not for the reasons I mentioned. We really think it is superfluous. We believe that we can read that the Minister of Transport is there should be no doubt whatsoever that once we have a qualified decision-making basis and we are in the negotiations on an infrastructure plan, the Enhedslisten will give priority to the double track between Tinglev and Padborg as one of the highest in the railway sector. After all, we have the railway as a first priority, and it is urgently needed, as I said when I referred to the servicing, so there should be no doubt that it will receive Enhedslisten's support as one of the first when we have come this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193554	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193555	It is all right, of course, that the rapporteur says that it will receive the support of the Enhedslisten. Last Enhedslisten, a red government backed up not only an infrastructure plan, but a train plan, i.e. the Togfonden DK, did not conclude the completion of the double track from Tinglev to Padborg. What is it that makes the South and South Jutlanders sure that it doesn't go on talking, but that Enhedslisten means something in this area if the Enhedslisten will not even support a resolution which is basically just about getting an updated basis for how we can complete the double track so that we have a full connection from southern Europe to northern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193630	The train fund DK was really about something else. It acted among other things. on the implementation of the timetable proposed at the time by the then Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen. That is what the Danish Railway Foundation was all about. But as I also said in my rapporteur's speech: we could actually have included it in the Train Fund DK. We did not, and there are so many different reasons for this. Why wasn't it taken into account in the 2009 traffic agreement? Why isn't it there? Why isn't that part of the VLAK plan? That is what I am saying: that is how we can keep shooting back and forth at each other. I think we have to say that there is really broad support behind this enterprise now, so I am full of confidence that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193709	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen who would like to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193713	Thanks for the speech. I was provoked by the answers that Mr. Henning Hyllested came along, because I think it's a little a free round, I'd say to Mr. Hylllested. Hideous place. You stand on the platform and say that the Enhedslisten will, of course, fight this through and will, of course, give priority to this in the negotiating room, but at the same time you stand and say that you will not vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which, after all, is merely intended to prepare for us to agree on this. What is the reason why we cannot vote in favour of this resolution? Because I would say that I know the Enhedslisten as well as a party that often dares to vote in favour and support resolutions in this Chamber. So what's the problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193803-2	Strictly speaking, there is no problem, other than that we are in fact of the opinion that we are on the way. I think that the statements made by the Minister for Transport are sufficient. I have no doubt that we will end up with a very good and well-qualified basis for decision when we will have to negotiate the infrastructure plans in due course. I have to say that with the statements that have been made in the Chamber today, where I think there is a very good basis for making a joint report between the parties, I think that is what we should be going for. That is what I referred to a little in my speech. I also think there's been some profiling in this. I am really sorry, because this is a very good case, which we are fighting for too. That is why I think we should all go for a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193848	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193849	I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is from a vintage who also knows the saying that one should forge while the iron is hot. And there are times when you may also have to choose to say: is it not now that we are kicking the ball in the finish line? I had a bit of the same experience, and I can then reveal when I got the border commuter tax in place in relation to the compensation agreement; it was actually a battle that was also taken in this Chamber for about ten years. Now we've been taking this game for 26 years, so isn't it time to kick the ball to the finish line?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193922	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193923	Yes, and so are we. In my opinion, we are deep in the penalty zone and I am ready with a head start or a taxa park or whatever it should be. I do not think that this will be necessary, because I cannot do anything more than make the Minister of Transport prepared to make this happen. This must be decided in the end when we are in the negotiations on the infrastructure plan, and I am full of confidence there. They will come as I see fit during the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609193956	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more brief comments. The next one to which we are going to give the floor is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194006	Thank you very much. A great deal has already been said on this matter today, and I would have liked to take note of that. Henning Hyllested and I actually agree on a matter here, namely that we should have looked at getting the double track between Tinglev and Padborg. It ran from 1908 to 1938, after which it was closed because of defence challenges. Since 1992 this case has been up and running again, and what I'm going to say, which is perhaps new, is now that we've heard a lot about it, is that if you're standing down there looking at this double track, you can see these mile-long locomotives just standing still and fucking while they're waiting for one train to come out so that the other can get in. It's a huge bottleneck. And it is both from the point of view of the fact that we are the only country north of Italy, as far as I remember, which does not have a double track for our freight transport down there, and at the same time from the assumption that it is a mess that I certainly think it is something that we should have done something about. Then there's been this whole process about discussing it here in South and South Jutland. It has been pretty in some places, and in some places it has not been so pretty I think you can say that without offending anyone. My starting point is that I think we should take a vote on it, and I think that because I am the grandson of Jørgen Nielsen. Jørgen Nielsen was a farmer from Sølund, and Jørgen Nielsen has probably castrated more pigs than I ate peas. And what I'm going to say with that is that he knew the price of the pig and I really like that too. Without comparing the double track with a local track from Aarhus to Odder, I would say that it is really, really important that we know the price. So that's what I think we should do... we should check out monkeys sofort, as they say down in that region.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194221	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194225	I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur for his support. It was also a conservative transport minister who was when the VK government decided back in 2009 the first part of the double track, which was also missing at that time, namely Vojens-Vamdrup. It was not the author's father, but another good conservative who was minister in that area. I fully agree with the Conservative rapporteur that it is essential to know the price of something, even before entering into negotiations on whether something should be prioritised and in what order it should be prioritised. Now, after all, I stated earlier to some of the other rapporteurs that when the VK government decided back in 2009, the first part of the double track, 760 million were set aside. kr., and it ended up with the cost of completing the first part of the double track being about 550 million. kr. In view of the fact that it was 20 km and that we are now missing 12 km, it is not important, in the view of the Conservative rapporteur, that we should also have a basis for decision which does not range from 300 to 800 million. kr., but that we get a real basis for decision in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194335	I very much agree with that. All I want to say, however, is that the difference between the 550 million. kr. and the 760 million. kr. approximately corresponds to the overlap that should be around 30 per cent. But that doesn't change the fact that we need to know the price of the famous pig.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194354	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194356	I fully agree that we need to know the price of the pig or, in this case, on a line. After all, the Minister for Transport has replied to the Conservative rapporteur and myself on a question about EU funding, i.e. the so-called CEF II funds, in this area. Does the rapporteur not also consider it essential that, if Denmark wants a priority into the pan-European programme, which everything else is running right now for 2021 and over a seven-year period, we also get clarification in Denmark, because this is the prerequisite for inviting a Danish project into an EU context in relation to potential support?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194431	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194433	Yes, absolutely. I also believe that there are relatively many free funds in this pool, especially in view of the corona, which has also slowed down a great deal. So I guess this is just the right time to get this done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194450	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Thiesen, the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194508	A lot has been said from up here, so I really want to be fairly brief. This has been something that has been in demand, among other things. The business community in South Jutland for a very long time. This is something that will benefit freight traffic throughout Denmark. And we share what was just said by the Conservative rapporteur, namely that if you are going to go into a negotiating room and really negotiate something, you also need to know what things cost. That is why we are fundamentally in favour of the proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609194607	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. I could hear that the Minister for Transport was very funny that I was the one who had the pleasure of standing in this Chamber today, and not the rapporteur on transport from the Left. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. I can then say that it was Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who should have stood here until he suddenly had to take a TV debate, so I am kindly standin rather than just being ordinary asker in the hall. For this is a motion for a resolution tabled by the whole of the Left, and we do, because we have a desire to have an updated basis for what it costs to build the last part of the double track. Back in 2013, I told the local newspaper: We're halfway there. So it was halfway to a full double track to the German border. It was at the time when we began to see the completion of the project that the VK government had set aside in 2009 for 760 million. kr. to, namely the distance between Vamdrup and Vojens. The money was set aside with the full support of the Danish Parliament's parties, with the exception of the Enhedslisten. The line ended up costing these around 550-552 million. kr., and for us it simply underlines the importance of having a fair price calculated also in order to have a proper basis for decision-making. That is the background to the motion for a resolution tabled by not only the Left Transport Rapporteur, but also all the Members of the Left elected in the South and South Jutland have tabled here in the Folketing. In fact, we believe that it is quite reasonable for the Folketing and the members of the Folketing to have a proper and up-to-date basis for decision, even before entering a negotiating room. Because there's a difference between the price of this line, the completion of the double track between Tinglev and Padborg, which costs 800 million. kr. or it costs 300 million. kr. or 0,5 billion kr. There is a difference, and there will also be a difference, in relation to how high a project is given priority, depending on whether it is a high or a low price. Therefore, it is only fair that the Folketing should have an updated basis. In the Left, we very often ask: How much is it? And that is basically what we are doing today. Well, we haven't finally settled on either one or the other... I can hear that many people are going to make this debate. This resolution is about getting an updated basis for decision-making. It's about getting a calculation of what the completion of the double track between Tinglev and Padborg costs. It is, as many of the other rapporteurs have also said, almost 30 years ago that the problem was raised for the first time, and it is regrettable that it is still a discussion we are discussing here in the Assembly, and not a discussion that is being dealt with. This is also the reason why, after the VK government took the initiative back in 2009, to complete the first part of the double track, we say that now must finally be the time for us to complete the second part of the missing double track. And there is a calculation of the costs on the line some of what is essential, also to ensure that it can be included in an overall infrastructure debate. In order to see some of what some of the rapporteurs have also said, we also believe that it is essential that we see it here in relation to the green transition. Because there is no doubt that if we want more moving from road to rail, we also need to look at the places where we have bottlenecks, among other things. on the lines, today. Therefore, this should also be seen as a welcome move in relation to the green transition. The construction of a fully double track is therefore not only crucial for ensuring the necessary capacity and resilience on the track in South Jutland towards Germany. This is not just about freight trains, but also about passenger trains. And basically it is also about how to ensure a green transition and how to get the various elements together, including how to ensure that a Danish section located on the Scandinavia-Mediterranean section is planned in relation to EU funding, the CEF funds, so that Denmark could possibly benefit from the means to complete the double track. That is also why we want an updated plant price for the project and that we have asked the Minister a number of written questions about, for example. how many passes, how many bridges, how many of the elements there are today are actually already geared to a double track and how many will need to be rebuilt. We believe it is relevant that we also have an updated basis in this area. That is why we have asked the Minister in writing; that is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution we are debating today. And we cannot therefore see any factual reason why the Minister does not wish to submit new calculations to the Folketing. Then we can discuss a lot why it wasn't part of one plan and why it wasn't part of the Train Fund DK back in 2013. We have also had that discussion today. On the left side, I can say that the double track has been included in our political priorities all the way through and continues to do so. That is also the reason for the motion for a resolution we have tabled. But it seems that when you look at the train fund agreed by the Red Parties in 2013, the South Jutland project had completely forgotten the book in relation to an animal, unfunded, perhaps in many ways superfluous new railway down through East Jutland and across Vejle Fjord. We can then hope that we can get there, that instead of pointing the finger in relation to which plans the project has not entered into, we will now have an updated basis so that we can ensure that the project will be included in the next infrastructure plans we are making. Unfortunately, the Minister is also reluctant to call for the general negotiations on new infrastructure investment. I know that my good colleague, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Transport rapporteur for the Left, is more than ready to come to negotiations, because we had a fully funded project ready even before the election and an agreement we had made with the Danish People's Party. We hope that the Minister will be more positive than he has been in his speech today in order to ensure that Parliament has an up-to-date basis. And we also hope that the other parties here in the Parliamentary Chamber will also support those parties who have been busy backing up in the press so that when the proposal is put to the vote here in the Parliamentary Chamber, so that we can ensure that the Folketing has an enlightened basis for taking a position on the construction project that is the completion of the double track between Padborg and Tinglev. So a recalculation is really the only thing we are asking for with this proposal after a good Left view, namely that it is important to know what things cost, even when you go into a further debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195255	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195302	I cannot understand why Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby cannot hear that the Minister for Transport is in favour. In other words, the Minister says that the Minister will provide us with some means so that we can develop the basis for decision that will have to be taken in due course, so that we can make a qualified decision when we sit in the infrastructure negotiations. Yes, I have also said this in my rapporteur's speech, right? I simply cannot understand why we cannot hear that this is positive and that this is what we should then build on. I am left with such a feeling that now it is the Tinglev-Padborg line that you take hostage in the christiansborg snipers or the Left's attempt to dig ditches between the government and the Left or between the government and its supporting parties and the bourgeois parties. Of course, I hope that is not the case, but that is the feeling we are left with. From all sides there are positive vibrations, and now it has been indicated that we may be able to make a joint report. That would be a really strong signal that this line is going to turn into something.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195418	I don't know what kind of speech that is, sir. Henning Hyllested has heard. I don't hear all those positive vibrations. I hear basically what I have heard so many times before: a lot of talk, but not very much desire to get into work clothes. I have previously masquerading to send a model of a double track made of such a fine Brio train, in terms of how such courses could be built, to a former transport minister. It was even a transport minister who belonged to the same government color as my own party. I don't know if this construction is still in the guest aquarium or what you have shut off in the various ministries, but then you could find it rather than see what such a double track looks like. I have discussed this a great many times, and I think there are a great many of us who experience that we encounter a wall every time, and one of the walls we encounter is that there is a lack of an updated basis for decision-making, and that is what we are asking for with the resolution today. What we are asking for is an up-to-date basis so that we can move from talking about the double-track to starting to act in this area as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195524	Sir. Hideous place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195526	That is how you can have different interpretations. I interpret precisely the various statements made by the Minister in different contexts, but also the answers to Question No. S 10 and S 367, as a very clear response to the fact that this has to be investigated, and then we have to provide the means to investigate exactly what that study is to be. Because it's a major study: when you're going to examine a line, it's called vvm and pre-examination and level 1 and level 2, and I'm going to give you, I'm going to. So it's not just like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195604	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195605	Thank you. But I also hope that Mr. Henning Hyllested, who is no longer a newly elected member but an experienced member, also knows that there is a risk that a project will move in the back of the queue when there is no updated decision-making basis, because then you end up in the queue of the things to be examined and not in the queue of the projects to be prioritised. And when we have tabled this motion for a resolution, it is because we want to avoid it ending up in the queues of things that need to be examined first so that instead we can pull it forward in the queues of things we can discuss and prioritise. That is the reason for the motion for a resolution, and perhaps that is why we are not in the mood just like listening to beautiful tones, but actually want us to go a step further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195647	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195649	Yes, it may be surprising when you hear the rapporteur from the Left that the Left and the rapporteur are not just listening to the positive signals that are coming and trying to be happy today. For last year we had a government, a left-wing government, where we were unable to achieve this. It was not even part of the Blue Infrastructure Agreement that was concluded. Then we should be glad, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, that the voters turned their thumbs down and put together a new Parliament where you can hear here today that there is a minister who wants to make sure that we have to negotiate that there are some figures for us. We have a radical party that has asked: should we not make a report? There is support for it from the Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, SF, and there is a majority. My brief question is this: will the Left be involved in such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195742	I think the interesting question is why the Socialists are no longer in favour of spending money on investing in our common infrastructure. There were no limits to how many Social Democrats there before the election toured and said: there has to be a track here, a bike path here, a road here. And after the election, you've run away from those promises. I belong to a party that made an agreement before the election for a total of 112 billion. kr. There were not only projects named; in fact, pools were also provided for studies aimed at obtaining an updated basis for decision-making, but also additional money for road projects and railway projects, and thus there was also an opportunity to prioritize some additional projects than those named. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where we have a government that does not even want to make an updated basis for decision, so that the Folketing can decide whether this is the priority. And I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195833	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195835	I would just like to remind the rapporteur that the rapporteur is a member of a party and was himself part of a government which had neither the ability nor the will to give priority to the Tinglev-Padborg line. Now there is a new Parliament, and there are positive vibrations, so why would the rapporteur not even reply to whether the Left will be involved in writing a report that is pointing a positive way forward for this project? Can the rapporteur give us an answer today as to whether the Left is involved in drawing up a report 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195906	To answer the rapporteur's question, I am a member of a party which, as such, has allocated money to the first part of the double-track, namely the one between Vamdrup and Vojens, and in our infrastructure proposal in the Left, we also put forward the idea of completing the last part of the double-track. Now the Socialist rapporteur, with a merry smile on his mouth, received a commitment from Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen says that we would support the Socialists in this matter, and perhaps it also says a lot about what discussions there can be when there are several parties that go together for an agreement, in relation to, for example, the case of Mr Ole Birk Olesen. the projects to be prioritised. That doesn't change the fact that there were 112 billion. kr. Before the election, which could be committed to both concrete road projects and railway projects, but also to studies and completion of some other projects. It could, for example, be done. Been double-tracked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609195955	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609200014	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 June 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
