ParlaMint-DK_20201020130020	The meeting is open. Today there are a number of reviews: Morten Dahlin (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the disqualification of citizenship from gang crime). Andreas Steenberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the continued right of residence of spouses and children of foreign workers who acquire Danish citizenship). Marcus Knuth (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Denmark's priority in receiving quota refugees for the reception of persecuted Christians and other religious minorities). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on punishment, etc.) (Parliament adopted the resolution) B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a whistleblower scheme for defence and police intelligence staff and better supervision of intelligence services). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an Older People's Act designed to guarantee a number of legal and indisputable rights for older people, to introduce minimum standards in the area of the elderly and to strengthen the Board of Patient Security's supervision of the country's nursing home, etc.) President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on faster and more flexible assistance for als patients). Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to carry religious symbols in defence, preparedness and police). Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the organisation of an indicative referendum on Denmark's accession to the EU recovery plan). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of State aid to certain free schools where more than half of the pupils have foreign backgrounds). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to complain about insufficient support in primary school for children with less than 9 hours of support). Carl Valentin (SF) and (Jacob Mark) SF): Request no. F 9 (What can the government disclose about the health risk in Denmark, the EU and globally from the special covid-19 mutation developed in mink, and especially if a vaccine is not developed for humans against this variant of covid-19, and what measures should the government take in Denmark, the EU and globally to eradicate mink-covid-19?). Erling Bonnesen (RV), Lise Bech (DF) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 10 (Will the Minister explain the decision on the killing of Danish mink, including which professional evidence the government is basing its decisions on, as well as how the government will ensure that an entire industry is not closed due to the government's intervention with related loss of Danish jobs?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following bill: Draft law amending the Health Act, Social Insurance Act, Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc. and the law on ionizing radiation and radiation protection. L 64). Does anyone wish to record this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed and paragraph 18 of today's agenda is deleted as a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020130300	The item listed as No. 9 on the agenda, can only be dealt with today with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020130313	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. There is also permanent work for the Danish Parliament in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020130510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020130539	The debate on the report was opened. I do not see that Mrs Annette Lind is here, and that is why it must be Mr Lind. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020130617	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement. After all, 2020 has been a very special year because of the corona epidemic and, as the report shows, the epidemic has also greatly influenced the Arctic because of its long distances and the often worse opportunities for dealing with the pandemic locally. The situation has also meant that cooperation within the Arctic Council and political cooperation within the Kingdom community has been very limited. In a year when the new Arctic strategy is being drawn up, it is, of course, an extra pity. We look forward very much to the fact that, hopefully, cooperation will soon be restored to normal. Despite the corona epidemic, the events this year have again confirmed that, in addition to forming the framework of the Kingdom, the Arctic is also of crucial foreign policy importance to the Kingdom. The importance of the Arctic to Denmark has become much more evident in recent years. As you know, the increased focus in Danish media started seriously in August 2019 when it emerged that President Trump was considering buying Greenland. Then followed the announcement that the United States would open a consulate in Greenland, and a new cooperation agreement between Greenland and the United States, which followed an amount of 83 million. kr. with, followed the troop in the spring. The great focus on Greenland and the kingdom community was finally rounded off with the American Foreign Minister's visit to Copenhagen on 22 July. Many Danes have probably also seen Christina Rosendahl's film in recent months • Our husband in America. The film should, in my view, be a permanent curriculum in primary school, as it gives a very good understanding of how crucial Greenland in particular, but also the Faroe Islands are for Denmark's history and foreign policy situation to this day. The film is about the Danish ambassador to Washington during World War II, Henrik Kauffmann. The film illustrates in an excellent way how crucial the question of Greenland was for Denmark's security policy situation during and after World War II. Had Henrik Kauffmann not without a mandate allied with the Americans and made an agreement that they could set up bases in Greenland in defence against Germany first and later the Soviet Union, there was no doubt that Greenland today in some form had been part of the United States. History also shows that Greenland's military strategic importance was crucial for the Americans to work after World War II to make Denmark one of the founding countries of the United Nations and later become part of NATO. Although the world is different today, the military strategic importance of the Kingdom Community is still one of the main reasons why the United States is prioritising very close cooperation with Denmark. And history shows how crucial alliances and an international legal order are for population small countries such as Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. Therefore, it is also very gratifying that the focus is precisely on the value of NATO as the foundation for our security and the value of an international legal order, and cooperation in the Arctic Council in particular has a prominent role in the statement. The increased American focus on Greenland and also on the Faroe Islands, as we see in these years, is linked to an increased Russian but also Chinese activity in the Arctic. It is clear from the statement that in recent years Russia has armed heavily military forces in the Arctic, which is quite understandable to the Americans, who, among other things, are concerned. fear that the new Russian military installations can be used to hit Thulebasen. The possibility of new shipping routes due to global warming is probably also a factor in the increased interest in the Arctic. In the Left, we believe that the interests of the great powers should be a wakeup call for all of us in the Kingdom community. This means that we need to give priority to increased dialogue and coordination within the Kingdom community. Today, fortunately, there is a more equal relationship between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland than there was during the Second World War and during the Cold War. We must also have a debate in the Commonwealth about where the lines of security policy are going. If, for example, we do not know what to do. agree on what is critical infrastructure, it will be harder for other countries to play us off against each other; we also look forward to contributing to that debate in the coming year. The increased activity in the Arctic also makes increased demands on the kingdom, compared to the fact that we can keep track of what is going on, for example. along the east coast of Greenland and in relation to the ability to carry out emergency tasks. These are tasks to which we will also have to give financial priority in the coming years before that, of course, an Arctic package needs to be negotiated with the Minister for Defence, and this is also a debate that we look forward to contributing constructively to. We do not think that, for example, there is a need for a common policy on the environment. better Danish surveillance of Greenland's east coast, a stronger preparedness or a better ability to enforce the sovereignty of the kingdom is in contrast to our common ambition for low-voltage. We believe that the development of recent years has shown that other countries will fill a vacuum if there is a security policy vacuum in the Arctic, and this is a vacuum that we should be able to fill in order to maintain low-voltage. Similarly, we believe that we should be actively involved in the issue of future border migration in the Arctic. If we do not respond We must not only pay attention to the physical threats; we must also be wary of the developments in which several countries in these years are withdrawing from international agreements or increasingly ignoring international law, respect for land borders and international agreements. As a small country with an export-oriented economy, fine-meshed, rule-based international cooperation is crucial for both our security and our economy. It is a world order that we must make every effort to strengthen and develop. As far as the Arctic is concerned, we must therefore fight for cooperation in the Arctic Council, which has helped to ensure, fortunately, that the situation in the Arctic remains relatively peaceful. Our location as an Arctic coastal state gives us a unique opportunity to shape the development on a geographically huge part of our globe. Of course, we must do everything we can to make use of that opportunity. The great influence offers great opportunities, but also great commitments to ensure the best possible outcome for the many different discussions on fisheries, the exploitation of raw materials, sustainable economy, economic development, whaling, seal-catching, transport and climate. The areas in which we believe in particular that we as a country should give priority are issues relating to the environment and climate. Ecosystems in the Arctic are very sensitive, which is why it is important to have a readiness to respond if, for example, there is a need for a response. oil spills from ships. The description of the accelerating climate change in the Arctic is hard reading, among other things. is the thickest and oldest ice cream reduced by 90%. This illustrates why it is important that we take the lead in the fight against climate change and engage in the fight for the climate in international fora, where we have the opportunity to exert our influence. The alarming increase in temperature is also one of the reasons why we in the Left believe that we should give priority to research in the Arctic. We have an opportunity and a commitment to help the world understand the climate change we see in the Arctic, thereby opening their eyes to the consequences of climate change. As an end to that priority, one of our wishes in the negotiations on the research reserve is therefore that funds should also be given priority to a new research ship which can contribute to this research, and I look forward to hearing the Government's position on prioritising such a research vessel in the research negotiations. Finally, of course, there must also be a little bit of rice for the Foreign Minister: I think there is a lack of focus on how we can create the most optimal framework for sustainable development in the region, in the statement. It is about breaking down barriers that hamper development. It is about creating understanding and respect for local people's way of life and needs. We believe that one of the most positive developments in recent year was the opening up of the American Foreign Minister to increased free trade with the Faroe Islands. The opening up of new markets to the countries of the Kingdom Community is essential to ensure the desired economic development of the region, but it is also crucial in terms of security policy, so that all countries in the Kingdom community become less dependent on pressure from individual countries by having more export markets open to them. It should be a key priority for Denmark to help Greenland and the Faroe Islands also open new export markets. It is very good that the Americans spend a little more money searching for opportunities to attract American investment in Greenland, but it should be perfectly natural for Denmark to work in cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands to attract possible investments. The Government's efforts to make all three parts of the Kingdom community richer in the future by increasing investment and trade across the Kingdom community are unfortunately also absent from the statement. I hope that we can have a good debate on those issues too today. I look forward to the continued debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131529	There is just one brief comment to Mr. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131533	When the rapporteur is looking forward to the continuation of the debate, we should take it. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left says that Danish armament in the Arctic areas does not attack the principle of low-voltage of the Ilulissat Declaration. I do not understand, then, that when you rust, it is still a matter of low voltage. This means that low voltage is a relative concept. When the Danes arm themselves, they say it is because the Russians have done it; when the Russians arm themselves, they say it is because the Americans and the Danes do it; when the Americans arm themselves, they say it is because they have no control over security in the area, and that is because the Russians arm themselves and look after their territory. In this way, low-voltage turns to high-voltage. And otherwise the rapporteur will have to explain to me what it is that Danish armaments in the area are not part of moving away from the low-voltage principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131631	It's about, for example, if we do. If we do not have an overview of what is happening on the east coast of Greenland, then we shall expect the Americans themselves at some point to want to find out what is happening. And there we believe that it is better that it is within the Kingdom community that we are responsible for this task and show that we can enforce our sovereignty than that we risk a direct confrontation between Americans and Russians. So, we believe that it is Denmark that you meet, Danish aircraft, Danish soldiers who enforce our sovereignty in relation to the kingdom community, that we believe that it is better than the Americans who take on the task. And we think it's naive to believe, for example. on the basis of the Americans' reports that they will accept that there is such a large area so close to their coast where we do not know what is going on. And therefore we believe that the way to keep, you can say, the great powers out of that area, is that they trust that we ourselves have an overview of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131727	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131729	Now I got a little more confused. I mean, when we arm up, it's fine and proper, and then it's really good, and then we don't have to let the others do it. But the others are doing it anyway. The Americans equip themselves with new bases in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Russians are well-armed defensively, says the intelligence service. The Chinese do not arm themselves, but they are at least extremely interested in the Arctic's research. When the United States and the Russians arm themselves, will they stop doing so when the Danes do it instead? I think that sounds quite illogical, and I think that the rapporteur looks very much at the Ilulissat agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131809	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131811	If no one knows what is going on in eastern Greenland, I think it is naive to believe that the Russians and the Americans will not have an interest in finding out and that they will not do it themselves if we do not take on the task. And then they'll meet directly instead of us handling them on either side of the kingdom community. We believe that this can lead to a more dangerous situation than if we make sure that we have confidence in what is happening within our own territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131837	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131840	Thank you very much, and thank you for a very good talk with some good elements. I would like to highlight two things with which we at least agree on the part of the IA, and it is precisely that we have an increased focus on the Arctic when we talk about research in the upcoming negotiations and that we have an increased focus on these investments. After all, the previous government was allocated money to investments in Greenland, and we have, of course, lacked investment from both Denmark and the EU in relation to Greenland, so I would like to hear the rapporteur elaborate on what kind of investment it could be for some areas, and whether we could perhaps manage a little more, which areas are important to develop, and this should of course be done in cooperation with Naalaksuisut.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020131923	For example: Here in connection with the new airports in Greenland, where Denmark has also taken on a role, I think it is quite natural that we work together on how to ensure that there can be capital for investment in infrastructure, for example. in terms of making use of it in terms of tourism. I think that could be an obvious cooperation. I also think that with the diplomatic force that we have in Denmark after all we get a lot out of the world, compared to what one has the opportunity to do from Greenlandic and Faroese • could be a closer cooperation, compared to also being good at pointing out what it is for some investment opportunities that are in the other parts of the kingdom community than just Denmark. There is also something about that we are really bad at telling Danish companies about the opportunities to invest in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is much easier as a Danish company to get help to uncover some opportunities in Germany or Switzerland than it, for example. is in Greenland. There I think there are some opportunities for us to cooperate better and use the system we have to help Greenland and the Faroe Islands to get the investments they want instead of allowing the Americans to take over the role. Then I think we also have a responsibility to work more closely within the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132027	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132028	Thank you very much. This is also shared by the IA, of course, with respect for the fact that it is a repatriated area. Christoffer Aagaard Melson Of course). So it is of course important that Greenland also has an important voice there. After all, the government has taken an initiative called the State of Green, which is a kind of showroom that shows what it is that you can deliver and what potential there is for foreign investment from outside. It could also be interesting to work together on it, so perhaps it was the whole Kingdom community and not just the potential that is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132101	Sounds like a really good idea. In general, I think we lack focus on how we can strengthen all three kingdoms by breaking down border barriers, by investing more in each other, by helping each other's companies to export to each other, and there it sounds as if that initiative could be a good idea to look at, i.e. if you could not include Greenland and the Faroe Islands in a better way, but of course only if it is something you want from Greenland and Faroese. I just think that there is a huge potential for us to work more closely together on business development than we do today, which I hope we can use in the future too, and I think the government would like to take part in that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132135	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132138	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The question is, in relation to the announcements made by the Left in the last few weeks, when it has been said that pressure should be put on the European Union to open up the EU market for Faroese products. Can the rapporteur explain what the strategic idea behind this is? And with what arguments does the rapporteur believe that Denmark can convince Brussels that it should open up more products from the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132211	All three parts of the empire have an interest in the fact that things are going as well as possible in all three parts of the empire, and that we get so much growth and development and welfare and jobs, that is to say, quite so low-practical in order to help each other. In addition, I also think that there is a security policy aspect in the EU, and I think that we can argue with the EU that a relatively small country like the Faroe Islands has verified their ability to export fish, for example, so that you are not so dependent on individual countries in terms of being able to be pressured on security policy. I also think that the European Union has a security policy interest in linking the Faroe Islands to it. I also think they have an economic interest in extending their free trade agreements. So I think we have some very good arguments, and I do not think there are very many backsides to it. So I really think we should just push.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132258	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132300	That is to say, in plain language, that we go to the Commission in Brussels and say: should we not try together to get the Faroe Islands out of Russia's grip and open up to our market so that they become more attached to Europe than they are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132322	The rapporteur can also put it that way. I think it is a pity that the citizens of the European Union are not getting any more benefit from the fantastic products coming from the Faroe Islands, so I think we should work on that together. And I have also heard signals, I believe, from the government that people are also willing to try to work on lifting that agenda. We support this 100 per cent and hope that the government will push for it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132343	Thank you, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. There are no more brief remarks to be made by judges, and therefore it is now Mr. Søren Espersen. When you're late, you get in the back of the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020132407	That's what I'm talking about. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. And what we are all waiting for is, of course, the Arctic strategy to come, probably in the spring. In this context, there are a great many things that I think should be included in the whole of the prelude: first and foremost, cooperation within the Kingdom Community. I will come back to that a little later. First, cooperation in the Arctic: I think it is exemplary. I think everyone is actually saying that in relation to the four other states that are in the Arctic. We therefore have excellent cooperation there, even though the Russians are involved. It's funny, it can be done there. It can't do that in many other places, but it can do that there. I think you agree that you want to help each other in every way. Compared to the increased Danish military presence, which there was also just a debate on here with Mr. Christian Juhl and the Left rapporteur: Yes, we must have an increased Danish military presence, and that is quite a different situation from that which Mr. Christian Juhl sets up as a kind of armor, in relation to what it is to look after his own kingdom. It cannot be said to be a very violent armor. There was once a well-known military analyst who said that every country has a military, either one's own or another's. So, that is actually correct, also in relation to what the rapporteur of the Left said: that is the alternative. If we cannot militarily carry out the task that we have to do with the huge area we are dealing with, then we must accept that there are others who will find out for us. And we will not, because it would be a disaster, I think, if the United States were to take in those tasks because we are not going to make it. So we are in favour, in the Danish People's Party, of strengthening the fleet, first and foremost, monitoring at all. That's what you could call an armor. It's a dispute about words. I think it is essential that we take care of our own affairs ourselves, first and foremost. We want an economic dynamic in the whole Kingdom community, not a free-range museum. That's not what we want, that's where everything has to go. We must have a lot of development going on, the Danish People's Party seems, within all the parts of the kingdom, and we must work on that, of course, still with great respect for nature. As I said, the problem in the Arctic is not as much the Russians as it is the Chinese. I have noticed that China has begun to describe itself as a near-Arctic state, which, of course, is nonsense. This would mean that Australia and New Zealand could also be included in this. Of course China is not an Arctic state, but you do everything you can to come in under some form or another. And so the Communist regime is ready to invest billions. The airport history was mentioned just now. It was good, it ended up as it did, but it was very close that it had not succeeded. In our view, China should simply be kept away from investments, particularly in relation to security, throughout the whole Kingdom community, as far as possible. Then there's another party to this, and it's the United States that really messed up with this whole way of buying Greenland that you tried to do. I think most Americans thought it was stupid of the President to suggest it. It was actually an insult, both to the kingdom, but also to a great extent to Greenland itself. And in this connection I found it very difficult to understand the great joy that was in Greenland that one got a gift of 82 million. kr. by the Americans. One was actually so overwhelmed: at last someone did something for us. I still want to hold on to the 82 million. kr. You have to multiply by 61 • 82 million. kr. times 61 to reach about 5 billion. DKK, which Denmark grants in block grants and in the presence of the fleet. And that's every year! In other words, 62 times as much we pay in block grants than what the Americans gave us, which is barely enough to have seven or eight English teachers up there in Nuuk, if the Americans can speak English at all. But I am surprised that the United States, which is obviously not able to help their own millions of sick and weak countrymen, now suddenly delivered the USAID to the welfare community of Greenland. That's where the money came from USAID, which is usually given to destitute African states, now became the Greenlandic welfare community. And there are flaws and shortcomings, and so do we here, but it's certainly a welfare society, and it's surprising that you got so excited about this check, which I think should actually be thought of as something you gave to say: we didn't mean so bad about buying Greenland; now we just want to invest. I do not know what the reason was; I cannot understand why it was so received as a gift in Greenland, but it was. One thing is of course the United States' interest in managing Greenland, which I understand very well; another is the role that Greenland's autonomy and the vast majority of politicians in the Landsting have played and are playing in this historic drama that is currently running, about the kingdom of Denmark. I have claimed this before, and I will also repeat it: I very much reproach the Greenlandic politicians who, with their continuing, I think irresponsible talk of secession has set the United States off on a large scale. In fact, this began immediately after the adoption of the self-government agreement in 2009. It was there that the American interest really flared up, and so it has so greatly increased. As I said, I am not blaming the United States on this matter. It is understandable that the superpower, with what they will call due diligence, will have order in matters the unhappy today, when Greenland declares its independence. As mentioned, the blame is directed partly against the Greenlandic politicians, who play a kind of indecent double-playing, and partly against a number of Danish politicians who have allowed relations with Denmark to drift around for weather and wind, never made demands, never criticized, and one hardly ever speaks in any context, Greenlandic politicians against, and one will never ask what Greenland can do for the Kingdom, what Greenland can do for the Kingdom. I do not think it is fair that we in the Folketing and in the government are working in every way to meet virtually every Greenlandic demand, and that we then try again and again to strengthen the Kingdom community in every way, while leading Greenlandic country politicians seem indifferent to the kingdom community. That is also why from here I should encourage the official Greenland to now choose side so that we can all move on: Is Greenland's future with Denmark, or is Greenland's future with the United States? I think that discussion is alpha and omega in terms of our commitment to the Arctic. It is not fair that in the kingdom we spend lots of energy, time and money, and then it is just, no matter what, no matter, for the leading politicians in Greenland are just indifferent and not interested in being involved. So, I think the government should ask the Greenlanders directly whether, in the discussion about Arctic cooperation, we have a single kingdom at all. As mentioned, it is the responsibility of the government in the internal debate on the Kingdom to ask Greenland that question and then also make it part of the strategy paper to be made in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133252	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133255	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech to the great rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur felt that it was rather strange to talk about an armament in the Arctic. For me, armament is when you spend more money to secure more material and are present on a larger scale. Then this is an armament that is contrary to the Ilulissat agreement, which talks about low-voltage. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the matter of looking after his own kingdom. Does the rapporteur believe that an increased Danish presence in Greenland, the Faroe Islands, the Arctic will prevent the Russians and the Americans from also being present to an increased extent? Or will it happen, as both of us can remember from our relatively long lives, that when some rust up, do the other side do the same, and then the spiral is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133359	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133401	As I said just now, sir. Christian Juhl, we can call it an armor, because of course it is: If more naval ships are added, there will be more surveillance, then it is also an armor. Of course it is. But here is our obligation as a state, as a country, to be able to cope with ourselves, to be able to show that we can look after our own, which is the whole kingdom of Denmark, and if we cannot and we leave it to others, we have not earned the kingdom. That is as crucial as it is. We have a duty to provide for our country, and that is what we are doing here by arming up. So please call it armor, please, but it's a necessary armor. Because it is our own territory that is at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133447	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133450	Okay, that was such a clear speech, that is, that it is a necessary armament, and by that I also believe that it is contrary to the Ilulissat agreement that we have made. I also believe that the Russian armament and the American armament are in breach of the Ilulissat agreement, and that is why they should be stopped. All arms must be stopped and we must work towards peaceful development. But then the rapporteur says that we have a duty to defend the area. Can we do this with two larger ships and a smaller number of helicopters and individual aircraft in an area as large as half of Europe in Greenland? Can this be done with such a symbolic effort as we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133528	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133530	No, I'm sure it can't. That is also why we are so concerned that we need to get even more of the Danish naval ships up there that we need to get the new surveillance and the new electronic options that are available. We need money on this. Of course we do. Therefore, there may be relaxation, and it may sound a little strange. Well, if sir... Christian Juhl thinks that détente is just putting down all military beings, and that's enough, so we're not in on it. We believe it is very important that we maintain our own military, which has full responsibility for our territory, as well as possible. For Mr. Christian Juhl is right, of course, that if you had 28 frigates, then still away would be a tiny thing compared to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133613	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133616	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. In fact, Donald Trump may have done Mr. Søren Espersen was a favour when he said that the United States wanted to buy Greenland, because official Greenland said quite clearly: we do not want to be bought by the United States; we still want to be in the Kingdom community. In my view, it was quite clear, and it was also something that we supported by the IA. After all, cooperation with the United States is welcome and welcome from Denmark, and that is why I also think that it should be possible for Greenland to cooperate with the Americans as well. It is not all of us who fall on the tail of the Americans' charm offensive, and I think we should also expect it to come as pearls on a leash, so we have to have this debate all the time and to be constantly prepared for what comes next. So it really requires a close dialogue. Then I would like to make a comment on the issue of armament. We see it happening around the world, for example. Sweden equips its defence budget with about 40%, and I would like to hear Dansk Folkeparti how we should deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133726	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133728	First of all, I would like to say that Greenland would be bought, and I did not mention that it was certainly a very, very fine and noble rejection that Greenland's self-government was included in this context. It was rejected blankly, and I was delighted. I'm talking about the 82 million. kr. that came after these gift packages. Yes, I also noticed that the Swedes want to raise their defence budget by 40%. I think it's something like 27-28 billion. kr., you have to reach during a 4-5-year period. Denmark actually has just one obligation, and that is to live up to what then Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt signed up to in Wales, namely that we need 2%. of our bnp on military expenses. This is what the Danish People's Party wants us to achieve, and a huge part of it needs to be used to increase the presence in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133826	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133828	Thank you very much. It is also a question of where we will spend the money if we want to spend some more money on defence. From the IA's point of view, we fully agree that monitoring has been inadequate, so we would like to see it better than it is today, so we know what is going on around Greenland. In other words, we also have the search and rescue response, where new contracts are to be made, and today we are using what is equivalent to what is being done, for example. spends in North Jutland, so we really want to spend some more money on SAR preparedness and strengthen it in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133902	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133904	That is certainly part of it, and we can go quite a long way if we increase our defence budget to 2%. of bnp. It is absolutely certain that the emergency response and also environmental preparedness must be in place, and money must be spent on that. But there must also be pure military surveillance, both in terms of the fleet and, of course, in terms of aircraft and the new monitoring methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133933	Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020133937	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on the 82 million. kr. that's being talked about. That is also, as I understand it, something very much linked to the Ilulissat Declaration that came at one time. There was talk of strengthened cooperation, which later also resulted in inter alia. The million kroner. But I also took note of the rapporteur's reference to the fact that Denmark does not really deserve to have the kingdom if it is not possible to enforce sovereignty itself. I am thinking here of the fact that now that sovereignty is being enforced more, we have also begun to do things, for example. a volunteer corps, a volunteer force. In fact, I was in Greenland not long ago, when it was also talked about by fishermen and prisoners. So I wonder if Denmark, among other things. Because it has happened so that it will be able to enforce its sovereignty itself in Greenland, for example. without NATO, for example. without a volunteer force.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134045	No, we cannot do that without NATO, as it is now. No one imagines that either. I think it is essential that we make our contribution. That is precisely why NATO has made this demand for the 2%. Because if you get it in the individual countries, you can deliver it together. The voluntary force is something that we are very concerned about. The rapporteur knows that I am the head of the Home Guard, who is already in the process of trying to form an opportunity to create an emergency force under the auspices of the Home Guard. In the same way, initiatives are also being undertaken in the Arctic Command in Nuuk. Nothing would be better than getting many Greenlandic young people to go into that work. We look at it with great joy every time Greenlandic young people join the Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134144	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134146	Thank you. There is also a lot of talk about, for example. economic development, and here we are talking, for example. on diversification in a globalised world. But if you look at our report on where Greenland has got its imports and exports just in the first quarter, then you see that it is almost exclusively Denmark that we are dealing with. In other words, it is also possible to diversify, for example. start a collaboration with the United States, which is Denmark's closest ally. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134223	I think that is absolutely right. That would be the only logical thing, in other words, to get trade going with the United States, which is so close. I never understood why everything had to be done via the port of Aalborg. I think it is a good idea to deal with as many countries as you can. That is something that the Kingdom must help with as far as the negotiations that can be held there are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134250	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134252	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is quite true, as it is said, that it is of course minimal what can really be done by monitoring Greenland with some forward ships, but there are the two ships that are most used in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, two ships of the Thetis class, which are called the Hvidbjørn and Aries; they are about 30 years old. That does not sound like much, but it is actually a great deal in this context, that is to say in the case of military hardware, military equipment, because it will be very quickly obsolete. And if you ask the Faroe Islands Command or Arctic Command, they think they are too old to carry out the tasks they have. Will Mr. Is the Espers' party supporting the renewal of the ships most used in our countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134344	It was as if that answer were put in my mouth, because we would certainly like that. There are also other ships, these three of the frigate class, of the Knud Rasmussen class, which also sail with helicopter contributions and are quite brand new indeed. It is true that the others have been sailing for many years, so it would be great to have them renewed. So thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134407	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134409	Involvement at the practical level is the most important kind of involvement. One thing is that we talk about general ideological things like this, but involvement at the practical level, at the economic level, is by far the most important thing. When it comes to ships and such things, you don't have to send them in tenders all over Europe... you can build them yourself. It is not a requirement that it should be put out to tender everywhere. There are three yards in the kingdom, one of which is in the Faroe Islands. Will Mr. Espersen's party is helping to push for the shipyard that is in the Faroe Islands to be given part of the task when we get to the point where new ships of that class need to be built?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134449	I have to say that I did not quite understand the question. I don't know if I could have it repeated, so I feel a little more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134500	Unfortunately, that is not possible, but I can say that what I heard was whether Mr. Espersen will help build these ships in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134505	Okay. Many words were used to say that. Well, I think that's excellent if Faroese yards are ready for everything. By the way, it is also the same with our large fleet vessels; they have actually been built in Skagen. So you can do a lot of things, and the Faroe Islands have really good opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134530	I hope this all worked out. Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020134541	Thank you very much. As several rapporteurs have said, one can safely say that it has been going on in relation to the Arctic and in the unity and role of the whole Kingdom community in the new multipolar world order since we last discussed developments in the Arctic. There are probably many of us who have just had to shake their heads, including many who have been awakened by our idea of how long and how long it could take before we suddenly became the center of a great deal of security policy interests and economic interests around the world. In a sense, I very much welcome this because I think it gives rise to a renewed and intensified and refreshing debate on what the three parts of the Kingdom community can do with each other and can do in the Arctic if we want to and dare. I believe that only three nations in the world have the same interests in the Arctic, namely Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and what we have in common is the desire for peaceful development in the region, economic development in the region and sustainable development in the region. Not many other countries in the world have. We have three in common, three small states, or what to call us, which together make up the Kingdom community today. Regardless of how we think the Kingdom community should develop in such a legal way, I do not think it will change the fact that we three parts of the Kingdom community have the common interests because we have the common history, but also the common values. As we approach peaceful and strong economic development, but also sustainable development, we can, of course, discuss long and intensely, and we should do so, and my most important message today will be that we do so. Among other things: Mr. Søren Espersen has, of course, suggested, in line with several Greenlandic politicians and myself, that we should at least strengthen parliamentary cooperation between the three parts of the Commonwealth, including in the field of foreign policy, so that we can find each other in what is to happen. When it comes to security and peace, it is quite obvious that there is a need for investment, not to arm up, as Mr. Christian Juhl rightly says not to be the goal, but to create a better overview of the situation, also in terms of preparedness and civil development, but also because it is better that it is Denmark and Norway that, as Arctic coastal states, make the investments than others do, because no one suspects us of wanting a non-peaceful development. It is clear that this must be done in cooperation with our allies. It is also clear that not only can we protect this vast area, but it is also clear that it is incredibly important that we take ownership to take part in the security of the area, both civil and military. When it comes to business development, a great deal has happened, and good for it: new airports, new business pools, many promising projects in the field of raw materials. But I must not hide the fact that I would like to see, and it will come as no surprise to the people here in the Things I have said that every year we were far more ambitious from all three parts of the Kingdom community. There are so many possibilities. I see no great need to choose the most polluting or troublesome projects in terms of safety. Let us now focus on the incredible possibilities of using also hydropower for mineral development and processing. Let us look at some of the promising, completely new and very innovative projects that exist, including in both fisheries and mining in all northern parts of the Kingdom Community. Finally, about sustainability: Greenlanders and Faroese people know about someone how important it is to exploit the region's resources, not least the living resources, gentle and sustainable. Let us show the rest of the world that it is possible to make a really strong economic exploitation of raw materials and resources, but so that the generations that come after the present ones in the Arctic do not suffer. I hope that we will be able to continue the momentum of the discussion on the role of the Kingdom in the Arctic, find our own legs, and I also hope that we will be able to keep momentum. I'm glad that the government has strengthened the frequency of visits and dialogue... I sense it's been felt with the other parts of the community. I am glad of that, but I would like to see a little more offensive concrete proposals in a number of areas that we have also discussed, and I very much hope that the new Arctic strategy, which will soon be put forward, will be such a huge cornucopia of new cooperation proposals, economic development potentials and ways in which we, together, three parts of the Commonwealth, can assume the enormous responsibility for this vast area on behalf of the rest of the globe. We should take that responsibility on our part, and we can take that responsibility on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135127	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135130	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. Many times in this debate we look back on what has happened, but the interesting thing is also, as the rapporteur has said, to look a little forward and have some visions for the coming years. I would also like to talk about an issue that is about the European Union and the Arctic, something that we are not discussing very much. The European Union is updating its Arctic policy, and they have received an Arctic ambassador, Mr. Michael Mann, who among others... has said that the EU is really a payer and not so much a player in relation to the Arctic. I think that's quite interesting, for example. Looking at investments. The European Union could, for example: play a role forward in relation to the Arctic? I would like to move on to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135214	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135217	I think this is an extremely relevant issue, which I embarrassedly forgot in my speech. So thank you for the opportunity to discuss this now. It's perfectly obvious. Let us be honest and say that the EU is behind on points in this context, it has not had eyes and ears enough for the potentials of the Arctic, but it has also been a wake-up call for the EU, what has happened in the past year, and I also feel a strong renewed interest and demand also for Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish competences within this. For God's sake, let us take advantage of this and let us say to Europeans that if they want to share in the development of the Arctic, they must also provide investment and interest both politically and economically, and I think the time is ripe to do so. But it would be best if we could put together what we want. After all, we have a slightly different approach to the European Union: some of us are Members, others are not, so our overall approach will have to reflect it. But that being said, I see a huge, huge opportunity room here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135315	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135318	Thank you very much. At least it is thought-provoking that China is an observer in the Arctic Council and that the European Union is not. The fact that the European Union will be is certainly something that we supported by the IA, because we see the European Union as important in terms of developments in the Arctic as well. So that is certainly something that we would like to support from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135337	I'm glad to hear that. After all, the reason why the European Union is not there is something quite different: the conflict in Ukraine and the fact that some countries are blocking it. However, I fully agree that it is a rather strange situation that the European Union is not, and I would very much like to work for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135350	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135352	Thank you. I was a little surprised that a radical rapporteur thinks it is okay that we should arm ourselves in the Arctic. I thought, as I understood from earlier speeches by the rapporteur, that we should stand firm on the principles of the Ilulissat agreement that it should be done on low-voltage, that it should be peaceful development and that it should be sustainable development, etc., as the rapporteur also started by saying. If the rapporteur thinks that when we find ourselves in a situation where the Russians are arming, where the Americans are arming and where the Chinese are very interested, it will be seen as something other than a participation in the arms spiral that Denmark is doing, or does the rapporteur believe that it is doing so, for example. Is it possible to make peace and conflict resolution with non-military means in an area such as the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135443	It certainly depends on what we invest in and how we do it. If you ask Russia, the investments they have made have been primarily aimed at securing a supply to the new transport corridor that can come and at the forefront of development. It is true that all the facilities that have been set up can be used for civilian purposes, including rescue services, etc. What is the challenge is that they can also be used for something else. That is why NATO also considers them to have another potential, a more military potential. If what Denmark is going in and doing is what I think we are going to do, I hope it is at least what we are working for is investing in what is called situational awareness, that is to say better monitoring of what is happening in the area, the possibility also of being able to come forward more quickly and help people on civilian preparedness, which requires a greater overview, but at the same time also a better overview of who is sailing where in the area, then I think that you are both sending a signal to Russia that you are watching what is going on, and I think that is unfortunately necessary, but you are also doing so in a way that is not escalating, because it is not such a pure military armament that you are going in with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135553	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135555	I fully agree with the civil option in a ship and in a helicopter etc., and I think that is a very sensible use of such equipment. But I don't understand why every time we talk about these things, we say that what Denmark does has a special status, and then you don't talk about the other. How on earth should we be able to convince the Russians and the Americans that they should not arm themselves in the Arctic if we do not take a step forward, for example. along with the other Nordic countries and say that this is the Ilulissat agreement that applies, and you must follow it, and we need to have a serious talk with you about it soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135631	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135633	In fact, I think it is fairly well known that for Russia it is a much greater provocation if it is NATO and NATO's ships that start to get involved and arm themselves and sail in the area than if it is one of the coastal states that does so because they want a greater overview, one can say what is going on in their own territory. For that is what Russia itself does, and it recognises that all sovereign states have a certain right to do. That is why I see it as less conflict-escalating that Denmark assumes responsibility here than if other nations do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135712	Then it's Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135715	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. I think there are many things we can work together on, among other things. business development and other. I would just like to ask the question of strengthening parliamentary cooperation: has the rapporteur given any concrete consideration as to how it might be structured? Because we also believe that it will be necessary for us to formalise it in a future in which more tasks have been taken home, but where there are also major security threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135745	Well, I'm completely open, I'd say, to all ideas. A proposal which has been put forward by Aleqa Hammond, who is of course chairman of the Greenlandic Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I also believe that Mr. Søren Espersen has been there with that thought, otherwise he has to correct me is if you could imagine that we were having an annual meeting. It might be in connection with the meeting of the three Heads of Government of the three parts of the Kingdom, that we could then also meet physically or virtually when that is what can be done with Corona, and therefore simply ensure a more firm cadence for my sake like half-yearly if there could be support for it. I think it is incredibly important that we have some concrete points to discuss, that it is not just blah, but that we may also try to prepare some themes, some proposals, some projects that could be discussed politically, possibly in cooperation with governments. It is, of course, the case everywhere that governments do not last forever and that all parliamentarians then have the opportunity at some point to become government-bearing or -supporting or part of the government, and that is why I just think that the thing about having legislative assemblies with which to achieve stability in cooperation is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135852	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135854	I got the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135858	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135901	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is one of the politicians who has been, I do not know whether one can say sceptical, but at least doubtful, when one has expressed oneself about the fairly large exports of the Faroe Islands to Russia and what that can mean, and there are others who have been. But no one has wanted and talked about us taking action and stopping it from the Danish side. Nobody said that, thank God. Now some ideas have come from the Left Party which says that if Denmark put pressure on the European Commission to open up the European market to Faroese products, it would naturally follow that the Faroe Islands would find a more competitive market in Europe and thus withdraw from Russia. Does the rapporteur, also as former Foreign Minister, think that this would be something to which Brussels would be sensitive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020135959	Yeah, I actually think you would. I believe that in Brussels there is a growing recognition that it is important to strengthen economic ties with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is for many reasons. I do not think that the primary reason will be this one, if I am to be honest, but it will count on that, and of course it will, because in European optics it can be said that the overall chain and the overall signal to a country such as Russia never stronger than the weakest link. So if you can strengthen your chain without harming the Faroe Islands, but perhaps on the contrary try to approach a little on top of the unpleasant conflict we had a few years ago between the Faroe Islands and the European Union, then in fact I think there is a very great interest in it in Brussels, at least among those who understand what the Arctic means, and in that context also what a good relationship with the Faroe Islands and Greenland means.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140053	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale? Okay, then we'll move on to Mr. Knox's. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140059	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for a good speech for the Kingdom Community and, in particular, for paying attention to the need for cooperation at parliamentary level, and it is my question how we make it work and whether the speaker has a clear plan for how it is to be carried out in reality. Because I think this is the only way to make it work well, that is to say to have it firmly established in all societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140144	As I said, I think it is important that we have a firm cadence, and to that I could add that I am so happy that so many of the representatives from the other parts of the Kingdom community are now asking about these things. I think it would be important to see, for example. I do not know whether or not we should call it a shift, just as it does when the Heads of Government of the Kingdom Community visit each other, that is to say, that we should take turns deciding what it is to be on the agenda and what it is to be discussed, so that everyone is allowed to play a part in what fills the most in their context and political debates, and so that there is also a sense of mutual respect and equality in the debates that we have. I would certainly find that exciting, also because I actually have a great interest in knowing what is
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140235	Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140237	Thank you. I think it is the most important thing, for things to work clearly and firmly in all societies, for there to be close cooperation on a parliamentary basis, and now we have heard that we can talk in confidence at government level. In the same way, a confidential space could be created between Members of Parliament so that we could talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140313	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140313-2	I hope I do not reveal any State secrets when I say that I have at least tried to send a signal to the President of the Danish Parliament that we in the Foreign Affairs Boards, which I am now also representing, want to strengthen our security in relation to virtual meetings, among other things. to be able to take such dialogues. There are some technical challenges in that I hurry to say but it would also be nice to have a safe room to discuss this in. In any case, if it is a foreign and security policy that we are discussing, it will certainly be a very good idea to take care of it and, of course, it should be possible in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140352	I can, of course, add that the President is always responsive if there are direct representations from Members of Parliament. We move on to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140401	Thanks for the presentation. After all, the rapporteur says that Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands have great common interests in relation to the Arctic. Since Greenland is the country that is in the Arctic and we have an Arctic people, Greenland is also interested in representing the Kingdom community in international forums that deal with the Arctic and represent them as a leader. Is this also something that the rapporteur sees as a common interest in Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140436	I think we should have a very open and honest dialogue on those issues. When it is sometimes difficult for Denmark to deliver what Greenland wants in this context, this is due to the fact that a number of other states around the world similarly have parts of their kingdom or their people who want a similar representation. That is why some of the institutions we are talking about here are worried about giving a new form of status to some and not to others, which is why it is a more complex issue than that. What can be said with certainty is that if Greenland has an interest in an increased involvement and influence on what Denmark as a whole should think, then we should do all we can to give Greenland that influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140529	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140535	Thank you very much for a good speech, I think, too, where I agree with most of it. I wondered a little about the last part where we talked about parliamentary cooperation, as if it were something that is going on elsewhere. After all, we have a forum for parliamentary cooperation in the Kingdom Community, where you have representatives from both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands who are put together in a body to talk about how to develop the Kingdom Community. This is the forum in which we now have representatives of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I would like to hear in concrete terms whether radicals could be in favour of greater involvement of North Atlantic MPs in the work of the Folketing, for example. by inviting them to join a defence settlement, which I have always wondered why Greenlandic and Faroese members are not included, as the defence is a very, very important activity both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140631	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140633	Just to answer the first: I do not think it is quite comparable that the whole parliament in Denmark and the whole parliament in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands will have the opportunity to meet and discuss, in relation to four North Atlantic members of the Folketing. After all, it is a larger circle. I do not imagine any binding fora. I imagine that it is a forum for dialogue, a forum for debate and nothing more than that. In fact, with regard to involvement in defence reconciliation, I think that the North Atlantic mandates have been increasingly effective in influencing and influencing those conciliations. What is a little of the challenge, I think, because some of the parties we are talking about here are that such conciliation is also financially binding. And that may make it a little more difficult, because normally the North Atlantic mandates are not included in the Finance Act and such things, because it is another kind of cooperation that we have. So you definitely have to shake your head. However, we have no other wish than that all defence reconciliations that we may conclude take place with full involvement and respect for the wishes that are in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and perhaps even more dialogue than we have been used to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140746	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140746-2	It was not meant by me as if there was something wrong with having cooperation outside the Folketing and dialogue forums etc. I am just surprised that we are standing here in the Folketing and are not doing anything ourselves to involve the North Atlantic parts of the Commonwealth in matters of common concern. Defence policy is a common matter. It is not a Danish matter, it is a common matter. It is true that there are some special circumstances. It is also possible to discuss military service and financing, etc. But I still wonder why we are taking decisions which are of such importance to Greenland and the Faroe Islands without inviting representatives to participate in that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140827	I understand that point of view and agree with it. The self-government structure we have created in the Kingdom Community is famous and is fantastic in many ways, because it provides a very large, extensive degree of self-government and economic development. But, of course, it also has some complications built into it. One of them is that the representatives elected to the Folketing of Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not necessarily the same who represent the governments of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So it is not certain that the parliamentary expression, which comes from the honourable Members of the Folketing here, is the same as that of a majority in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which makes it a little complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140910	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020140913	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There wasn't much I disagreed with. I think it is essential that there should now be a renewal of the Kingdom community, because it is somehow running dry. It's been like this for years. The Kingdom meeting with the three Heads of Government has been held, and that is practically the case. In addition, you only meet Greenlandic politicians under the auspices of the Nordic Council, which is quite special. I had imagined a parliamentary institution with perhaps ten representatives from each parliament, who could then hold the presidency in shifts and work on concrete things, as well as trying to do in the Nordic Council on the good days. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he will be involved in making a request to the Bureau of Parliament, whether the Bureau will take the initiative, in relation to the other parliaments, perhaps to consider setting up such an institution. I think that would be incredibly important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141020	I think that is a very good idea, and I would like to. I think that this is something to be done between committees and committees. So perhaps we need to think quite carefully about the format in reality, i.e. whether it is a large parliamentarians meeting or whether different committees should be changed to meet. However, if the Bureau were prepared to go further, it would be possible to set up a small working group in which Members of Parliament from both Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark were involved, who thought further about what to actually do in order to get it firmly established. The very idea of asking the Bureau to ask their colleagues in Greenland and the Faroe Islands is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141104	With the conclusion that includes many things, we thank Mr. Martin Lidegaard. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141120	SF believes that an Arctic strategy should provide new sled tracks for increased armaments, namely armaments in the fight against climate change and for a sustainable environment. The temperature in the Arctic has increased twice as fast as the global average in the last 5 years. Other new sled tracks must be to involve Greenland and the Faroe Islands in a new and different binding way than before. A new strategy for the Arctic can also be the start of a new strategy on how to deal with the Kingdom community. This is a chance to show that we are serious when we talk about modernising the relationship between the three nations that make up the Kingdom Community; now in practice we can expand Greenland and the Faroe Islands' foreign policy business space, and this can be an important step towards a kingdom community with more equal value and respect, a kingdom community with a future ahead of it and with the frustrations and dissatisfaction behind it. And it is a strategy that we had only last week the opportunity to discuss in Nuuk with the chairman of IA, Múte Bourup Egede, who also made it clear in this context that Greenland has entirely legitimate ambitions to be a party to the whole process. If we are not careful, we are going against a new cold war on the Arctic, and that is why it is so important that we should stand on the Ilulissat Declaration, which is precisely this year's tenth anniversary. Denmark is at risk of ending up like Bambi on the ice, because we have to find our legs and choose the direction for ourselves, and it has to be with the three main points: low tension, action for the climate and the environment, and cooperation in the kingdom community. That is why we think it is so important that a country like Denmark, which has a clear interest in the Arctic, ensures that it remains a low-voltage area and that we keep a focus on the development that is in relation to the environment and climate. While the Russians and Americans want to equip the military, Denmark must equip the environment. We can do this by contributing both internationally and by increasing the monitoring of climate change itself and its consequences. And it could, among other things. be with a new marine research ship, as the present, Dana, is 39 years old and is about to be scrapped in a few years' time. And it is no use, then, that Denmark is in a situation where we are without a ship that can be used in ice-filled waters, so that we are thus unable to contribute to the research in the North Atlantic. For the SF, the approach to the Kingdom is that we are three people, three small nations.One is a little bigger than the others, but still very small in a global context.This can work together and thus use the Kingdom community as a strength, and it is therefore quite natural that the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be involved at the negotiating table, and that we should work towards a community of equals, where it is clear what benefits each of us can draw from each other. Then it may be somewhat worrying when we see the American Foreign Minister, Mike Pompeo, in May last year say that the Arctic is an arena for power policy and competition. And it was then followed up in June last year with a new Arctic strategy from the U.S. Department of Defense with the desire for increased military presence and greater exercise activity in the area. It was then followed up again by a bill in the Senate on an analysis to identify one or more ports in the Arctic, which is large enough for destroyers to sail there. And here our task will be to be able to balance our relationship with the United States and our firm desire to maintain the Arctic as a low-voltage area. And I wonder if it is also a direct end of the line that as late as May this year we saw a joint exercise between the United States and Britain in the Barents Sea as the first since the mid-80s and in September this year we saw an exercise where Norway and Denmark also took part. The United States has also followed up with their complete grotesque and disrespectful attempts to buy Greenland.The imperialist thinking has obviously overwintered there. The purchase offer was then later replaced by attempts to buy itself for further influence such as this by radar. So, first, the deposit is made with the 82 million. kr. and with a consulate in Nuuk and with a consul who, moreover, travels the midnight sun black to gain influence and knowledge of all parts of Greenlandic society. But instead of being provoked by this American arrogance, we might see it as a kick over the shin, because why do so many people in Greenland really like the 82 million? kr., which in relation to the support from Denmark are they pure peanuts? The question we have to ask ourselves is: What can we do in Denmark and in the Kingdom community to ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands find the community so attractive by themselves that they choose to stay in a close relationship with the other two nations? Once we have the answer, we will have a stronger kingdom community and thus the opportunity to match the Great Power Rival in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141756	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141759	I think it sounds incredibly sweet when you say: we do not want to arm ourselves militarily, we want to equip ourselves for climate and environment. That's very sympathetic. But what if other countries in this whole area are incredibly interested in following what we are doing militarily to defend our own territory? Then we can sail around with all the research ships we want and make environmental measures, but it won't change the exact discussion about whether Denmark can carry out the task that you have to undertake. Can the Kingdom of Denmark carry out the task, or should we ask someone else to come and do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141838	But we have, if you will allow me to say so, asked others to do so, in that we are members of NATO. You cannot see Denmark or Greenland or the Faroe Islands as detached from the alliances that exist, and Denmark and thus the kingdom community are part of NATO, and that is where I think we should stay. But I also think that Mr. Søren Espersen, of course, has a point in saying that you cannot counter an armament by simply sending new research ships to the Arctic. And that is why it will be a balance for Denmark, but I think that the priority for us should be that we stand firm on the Ilulissat Declaration and that we see it as our main task to contribute to research in the Arctic area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141925	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020141927	In fact, I believe that the rapporteur has misunderstood what NATO is all about, and that is that we have all signed this agreement to ensure that our national defence budgets are at 2%. of bnp. That's what NATO's job is in this situation. And then the rapporteur can say so many times: we stand firm that this should be an environmental issue. But other countries do not really care what we stand by. We have a special obligation when it comes to the Arctic, because the Kingdom of Denmark is an Arctic nation there we have our obligation; there is something we must do. And then it's nice that the United States can take care of some other things or that the British can do it. But that is our commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142010	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142010-2	I don't know if that's exactly what we signed, i.e. the 2% thing. But it is true that we have signed the treaty because it is the foundation of the alliance that each country must be able to defend its own territory. That's what we signed. The fact that there is also this statement of intent that you have to work towards is, in fact, something separate. But what I think is important is that you don't just jump on an armament spiral, because I think it's endless. So every time we see a movement on the Russian or American side, we have to be in the spiral. At least we will end up in a completely different place from what the Ilulissat Declaration says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142047	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142049	Thank you. That is first of all a comment on the discussion that has just taken place. I guess you have to distinguish between something that is offensive and something that is defensive. For example: I don't suppose a radar, an eye that sees what's going on, can be defined as offensive. I guess that can't be called real armor. It's just a right you have to keep track of what's going on over or under your own country. When it comes to the United States' interest in Greenland, the rapporteur said that the United States is showing an arrogance and was a little mocked by the fact that the new Consul in Nuuk travels the midnight sun black in Greenland to understand what is going on and so on. Does that have to be arrogant? Can't it really be the other way around? So, we come from the Cold War, where everything was rolled down: agreements were made between the United States and Denmark, and the Greenlandic community was totally ignored. Now you get into things. There is a dialogue with civil society. Can it not also be interpreted as the reverse of arrogance: that you actually have respect for the people you work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142156	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale is wrong about radars. A radar is not, if I may say so, just a defensive instrument that should be able to see through what is going on. It's a fundamental misunderstanding of how radars work. Radars are also something that encourages the other party to develop even more advanced weapons that can then avoid the radar, and therefore radars are precisely included in armaments, because it feels the Russians then force them to invent new, for example underwater drones, which are what they are researching in now, which can then avoid radars. So that is one thing that also helps to push the armament. I think sir... Sjúrður Skaale is simply wrong in assessing a radar. The arrogance from the United States: I think one should be unusually naive if one sees only the American interest in Greenland as pure interest. The United States has a president who starts and ends all sentences and wakes up every morning and goes to bed every night, I have the impression, by saying: America first, America first! And now they must suddenly be such altruistic specimens that are just interested in cultural exchange. Then I believe in it, and then I believe in elves, and then I don't believe in anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142300	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142303	Yes, of course I fully agree with the latter. Of course there are interests behind it, but the approach is more open and, I think, more respectful than it was during the Cold War, where you simply made agreements and set things up without asking anything and without taking an interest in the society in which you worked. When it comes to radars, we don't entirely agree. That's what I have to say. The alternative is that you don't know what's going on. The alternative is that there may be something or nothing, but we do not know, and we do not want to know, because we are not putting up an eye. We don't open the eye we could have had. Maybe it's a little naive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142340	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142342	Well, here I think, too, sir. Sjúrður Skaale ends up in a different position, which I also don't have, i.e. that we shouldn't have.I'm just saying that we should think of it as part of what is perceived as a step in a spiral where you rust. There may be good arguments for having radars... it's pretty obvious to be able to look down through the water to see where any Russian submarines are. There may be good arguments for having the radar on the Faroe Islands, on which there has been so much discussion. I was just attacking this with the fact that you cannot see it in isolation and say: now we have a radar that is only such a peaceful thing as an eye, because that eye is part of the development of new weapons on the part of the other side. It was meant to be understood that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142419	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142421	Thank you very much, and thank you for an amazingly good talk with some really good elements. One of the points I made in particular was what the rapporteur said in relation to equality and respect: that was what was the objective and what we were going to work for, and then we had to put aside the frustrations. Of course, this is something that I share a desire for. In reality, it can be said that self-government was a cooperation project, but has become a bit of a battleground, and I think in reality that one of the conditions that was too self-governed was that there should be new revenue from the raw materials sector and that we should, in this way, be involved in generating more autonomy in Greenland. The reality is different and the question to all of us is, in reality, how we put away the frustrations and precisely work for equal value and respect, which, as such, is also part of the self-government agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142515	Well, I'm quite sure that a number of different things have to happen. That is why I also mentioned the development of an Arctic strategy and the implementation of it afterwards as one of several things that can help to modernise and upgrade our kingdom community in the same way, so that Greenland and Faroese also experience it as a genuinely equal cooperation. We can do so in many other areas. It has been discussed earlier today whether we can do other such interparliamentary meetings. I think it is a very good idea, which could be a supplement to the rich meetings. And we can make other kinds of communities that I think are good. I think we should just take the opportunity now. Instead of just talking about what we could do, we now have an opportunity to develop an Arctic strategy and an implementation of it, where Greenlandic and Faroese will experience very concrete and precise involvement in the whole process. It is entirely legitimate political ambition to have for the other parts of the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142613	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142615	One of the issues on which I know the rapporteur also shares a particular focus is inequality. For SF it is of course inequality in Danish society, and for IA it is inequality in Greenlandic society. We also know that there are many Greenlanders who choose to move from Greenland. 25% of the Greenlandic population is actually living outside Greenland today, and this is of course causing some concern. There we know that inequality in Greenland is increasing, and we also have to relate to that in some way if it is that we want to create a strong society. It is certainly an important value for IA to work for. And I think that, unfortunately, it also affects the work of the Folketing in some way, that it does not work on the issue of inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142656	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142658	After all, I fully share Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's concerns about the extreme inequality in Greenlandic society and, indeed, the concern I can hear about how to ensure the future of Greenlandic society: what is this economic investment, and what is this economic foundation that makes it possible to work towards having an independent country? There is not much about being self-employed in a way where you can stand up on a mountain top and say that you are self-employed if you are really deeply dependent on subsidies from other countries. Therefore, this is also about some investments from Greenland, in cooperation, hopefully, with both the Faroe Islands and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142748	Thank you. A question just came from Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142754	Thank you. It is mostly among Danish politicians in this Chamber that we are discussing the 82 million. kr. from the United States over and over again. At home there is not so much more talk about it than what has already been said. Well, we know where we stand. There's not a lot of hooliganism about it. It is because we are also trying to move towards a more global market economy. That's one of them. The reason why we've got our shipping company, Royal Arctic Line, to create new routes, among other things. in cooperation with Eimskip from Iceland may need to start sailing to Maine. It is also to develop our economic diversity. I would therefore like to ask the same question I asked earlier: does the rapporteur not see that there is also the possibility of diversification of the economy, which will also help to create a better welfare society in Greenland, so that it does not take place exclusively through trade between Denmark and Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142857	Well, it is perfectly clear, and there you have free hands from Greenland to trade with whoever you want, and the independent companies in Greenland can sell and buy from all the companies they want, and that is something we need to support. I think that in every possible way it is absolutely essential to be able to envisage real autonomy, that is to say that you have a more diversified economy, so that you do not depend on the outcome and fluctuations that may be in an area, in other words, in relation to the fisheries sector. However, there are a number of other things that are related to it, including the level of education, where too few get an education and where too many fall from, both in Greenland, but also among the Greenlanders who go to Denmark. It is, of course, a broad-ranging effort that needs to be made, but of course it is obvious that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam has a point. That applies to every society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142947	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020142949	Thank you so much for your recognition. It is also because, for example, when you get there. from the platform talks about American arrogance or charm offensive, as others call it, it is also interesting to think that what is called charm offensive is also called diplomacy in other independent nations, and that is also why the question arises. But I am glad that we have a common line in this area. I would also like to emphasise that there are many educated Greenlanders these days, because we are continuing to train and more and more people are being educated every year, and we must also be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143026	Yeah, yeah, sure. As far as the United States is concerned, I would just like to say that there is no room for naivety in politics, and there is absolutely no room for naivety in international politics, and there is no reason to believe that the Americans will do anything if they do not see an interest in it. So it is in this context that we need to analyse it. This is a chess board where some pieces are moved, and here the Americans moved some pieces, which in the long term must contribute to something good for themselves and not for the benefit of the Greenlanders. If it's going to be good for both sides, I think they can live with it, but that's not why they do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143101	There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so thank you to Mr SF. Karsten Hønge. And thus welcome to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Christian Juhl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143111	Thank you. There is an increasing rivalry in the Arctic, and there is a systematic build-up on the part of both Russia and the United States. Denmark has also increased its military presence. The fight for raw materials and opportunities for profit will be tough. Things change so quickly that the current Danish strategy is outdated, and therefore it is important that we get a new strategy for the Arctic in the Kingdom Community. Our first meeting with colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands was very fruitful. On an equal footing, we discussed at a major conference of the network six areas that are important to us all: that it is a peaceful and secure Arctic; that there is trustful and regional and international cooperation; that people in the Arctic should be at the centre; that there should be sustainable economic development; that protection of nature and environment and climate is important; that new knowledge and research on the Arctic should be strengthened. A genuinely fruitful and equal common strategy was envisaged between the three parts of the Kingdom Community for parliamentarians, ministers and civil society, but that is not what it is meant to be. When I asked the Foreign Minister the other day when the six topics I mentioned were to be drilled out and put on the agenda for six sub-conferences between Members of Parliament and others in the Kingdom Community, I was told that this was not meant to happen. The rest of the work is to be done in cooperation between the three ministers and their officials, and they are the ones who finally hit the nail. And it's the ministers' that's disappointing. I thought we were now facing a new break from the Secretary of State. A new government, a new era and a new influence. But no, everything's old. Perhaps we could learn lessons from, for example. Parliament's work on a new strategy for developing cooperation in the Third World. Here the rapporteurs meet, who have set in motion a longer process to renew the current strategy, and civil society organisations offer proposals. It is the majority of the Folketing that decides what the final strategy should look like. I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to learn from his colleague, the Minister for Development. After all, there are only a few steps from one office to another, so perhaps experience could be exchanged about which process is perhaps the most profitable and perhaps the most democratic. For Enhedslisten there are two guiding principles for activity in the Arctic. The first is that all activities must take account of the people living in the Arctic. There are immensely many economic interests that are immensely numerous military and security interests in the Arctic, but from first to last it must always be a question of how the people living in the Arctic will have a good and sustainable life. We must respect the right to self-determination and the concern for indigenous peoples. The second principle is that all activities we launch in the Arctic must be based on sustainable principles, taking optimal account of the very sensitive nature facing change due to climate change. The Arctic is more exposed to climate change than the rest of the world, because the temperature increases here are 2-3 times as large. It is important that we maintain the Ilulissat agreement in 2008 that the Arctic should be a low-voltage military area and that all disagreements about the Arctic should be resolved through negotiation on the basis of international international law. Without Denmark's cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the Kingdom Community, Denmark would have no particular influence in the Arctic. Therefore, it is important that we give Greenland and the Faroe Islands optimal influence in the Arctic Council and in other forums and negotiations on the Arctic. The Foreign Minister calls this new great power rivalry, which is taking place in the Arctic, a new dynamic in the Arctic. We have two different views on the word dynamic, I can hear. The Foreign Minister welcomes the United States' second fleet in the area and promises increased Danish military presence, knowing that, together with the Russians' activities, it is the start of an armament spiral, which is the opposite of what is stated in the Ilulissat Agreement. I don't know how long he's going to call the United States the Kingdom's closest ally. It is a pretty ally that we have at the moment, which denounces one international agreement after another and which, moreover, left up to 30 military bases in Greenland without cleaning up after it. The foundation for our security is not to develop an armament spiral. Our security lies in international disarmament agreements and stronger efforts to ensure that all Arctic states comply with the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration. Our security lies in a Nordic alternative to the rivalry of the great powers in the Arctic. I could well imagine that the wise Foreign Ministers in the North sat down and said: how can we become an alternative? We are just as large and as strong as the others when it comes to economics and insight into what is happening in the Arctic, research capacity, etc. It is important that Denmark takes an active part in research on Arctic themes, not least when it comes to how to ensure sustainable living opportunities for the people and how to ensure optimum consideration of nature and not least of the seas, and how to ensure environmentally sound transport in the environmentally sensitive area. In this context, it is important that we build a new research ship to replace the old Dana. It is necessary to be very ambitious when building the ship and why not build a joint research capacity in closer cooperation with the other Nordic countries? I would like to see a large international research centre in Greenland, where the Arctic states share their knowledge of the situation and how we together ensure nature, environment and climate, and not in imperialist competition. People and nature are the first two priorities when we have to do activities in the Arctic, which I mentioned before. We need tough and binding international agreements on the extraction of raw materials in the future exposed land and sea areas. There must be an international ban on the extraction of oil and environmentally harmful raw materials in the Arctic. It will have incalculable consequences for nature if emissions occur in a climate in which pollution control will be virtually impossible. Long enough, there has been discussion and negotiation of a ban on the use and transport of heavy fuel, what is called heavy fuel oil in the Arctic. We need action now, Minister, we do not need to see any further delaying meetings. We have to see that this ban is being implemented. It has been a long time since that ban was implemented for Antarctica; the same has to happen up here in the north. The same applies to the fight against highly degradable substances, soot pollution and contamination with plastics and microplastics in the Arctic. All in all, the report contains many minor individual initiatives between countries and they are all steps in the right direction. But in view of the desire of companies and countries to make money, big money, in the Arctic and the rivalry and armaments of the great powers, things are going too slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143842	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143845	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which was very sympathetic. I agree with what the rapporteur says. There is just one thing, and that is that when it comes to this armament talk, I would like to say that I completely share the terrible frustration that the Nordic countries cannot stand together and set the agenda and, instead of responding to what Russia or the United States are doing, they are acting and setting the agenda themselves. But when there is an armament when Russia does what they do, and it may be coincidental that Sweden will increase its budget by 40%, and Russia is
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020143931	No, I have used these microphones and this platform to say quite a lot of times that our capacity for peace research and conflict resolution is far too weak. We use 99.9%. of all our financial resources and research resources to develop military hardware to kill each other, and we spend 0.01%. research into how to resolve conflicts with non-military means. We could have a much better relationship with the Russians, with the Chinese and with many others where there are conflicts, and we could even contribute, as Norway does around the world, to solving escalation and armaments, and we could change it so that societies can develop. Think of how much money is wasted on the military, but which could be used to build the countries peacefully and to make life rich for people and to make them happy. We do not use that option because we believe there is only one option: armaments. So, of course, we need to do more. It is much harder to do so, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144035	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144037	You can't disagree with that at all. But what is happening in the Arctic Council and in all kinds of forums is a dialogue that is running. When you look at it anyway, it gets armed up, then the Russians get incredibly close to, for example. Sweden, and then I guess there comes a point where it is said that, unfortunately, we have to move on to the other track too. Or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144102	Not in my world. It is not a utopia that I am speaking in favour of here, but concrete reality. It was in my part of the Cold War. I have not lived throughout the Cold War, but in many parts of it, and there we saw how popular movements, sensible governments, for example. The one with Anker Jørgensen in the lead, with e.g. The Swedes and the Norwegians in the lead made sure that we had disarmament between East and West, that we had a process in which we built up confidence and built up joint cooperation and were disarmed in essential areas. It was not a total disarmament but disarmament with the most dangerous weapons. It can be done, and people are not dumber in Russia than they are in Denmark, and than they are in the United States, so of course everyone wants a world with the least possible weapons, and of course it can be done if we had skilled enough politicians and ministers to do that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144154	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144158	Thank you very much for your speech. I note what the rapporteur said about cuts in the use of HFO in the Arctic, which I personally and my party also agree with. I think it is important that we think about our climate. There are also examples of many good initiatives at home from Greenland, where young people create new organisations on their own initiative to promote debate and dialogue around the climate, and for example. There's a new one called Greenland for Climate. But we also need to put people at the centre. I think we may also have to think about the fact that if inequality is not to increase, especially in the settlements, where the Royal Arctic Line ships, especially those small builders, are currently using HFO fuel, they may have to be compensated financially in some way, so it is that the bags you get in the settlements, where a single bag from the store already costs DKK 200-300, are not going to be even more expensive. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144305	After all, before the elections, we have already written in our climate strategy that we are walking on two legs in climate action: the social leg and the climate leg. We do not believe that we will get the people to make the effort that is necessary if people do not feel that it is the widest shoulders that have to pay the biggest price. That is why I fully agree that if we cannot help to eliminate some of the inequality, not least in Greenland, then we will not get the population to do anything more, both voluntarily as individuals, but also in organisations, including in jobs, also in larger contexts. Therefore, the fight against inequality must go hand in hand with the fight for a better climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144354	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144358	Thank you. I've always thought that, uh... Christian Juhl lived in another world, and I think that has been confirmed today. Well, it's something like that, if only we make a whole lot of research ships, if only we provide for climate and environment, then there are probably no other military powers interested in getting near the Kingdom of Denmark's territory. That's what's so weird. Because that's the thing. I have quoted this earlier today as saying that every country has a military, either one's own or another's. That's the way it is. If we leave one military vacuum, it will be occupied by another. And there I would like to ask you directly: Christian Juhl would like to see that it will be American naval ships that are in charge of everything around Greenland? Or isn't it a little more wonderful that we can do it ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144447	I have praised many times the fine principles of the Ilulissat Declaration on low-voltage not out of tension, but low-voltage and this means that we must have the least possible weapons, the least possible military in the Arctic. How's that going? Is it going to happen by just letting the great powers do what they want, instead of bringing together in the North, as I suggested here, a clearer position on these things and saying: do not arm up in Russia, do you not arm up in the United States? They can then say: We don't care what you mean in Denmark and Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. I just don't think it will if we stand together. In other words, the Cold War has taught me that even in extremely difficult circumstances, dialogue can be established, negotiations can be established, binding agreements can be reached to have less military than they had yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144540	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144541	Well, sir. Christian Juhl says that we must tell the United States and that we must tell Russia that they must stop now. Well, that's what I think is remote from reality. Because the situation is that, in relation to the huge area up there and with everything that is at stake in terms of security, etc., it is something that is not going to fall by military means. And that is where I ask again: is it better to have American naval vessels around the coasts of Greenland, or is it better to have Danish naval vessels? The question is simple enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144617	I want civilian vessels, and I don't want American or Danish fleets and military up there if we can avoid that. And come into reality, sir. Søren Espersen: The Cold War showed that we can actually establish situations in which the Russians and Russia are a small country compared to the Soviet Union during the Cold War had to say that okay, we sit down at the table. And where the Americans had to do so, even in areas that we know well, namely up in Iceland, for example, where we forced them to sit at the table and also start negotiations and also get results out of those negotiations. Why on earth should we not spend it instead of spending more and more money on the military? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144658	So I would like to thank the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020144717	Thank you very much. After all, this is an extremely important debate, which I have also looked forward to. And I have actually been very much in agreement with many of the things that have been said in the past by the rapporteurs. Among other things: I could recognize myself very much in Mr. Martin Lidegaard's introduction of a desire for peaceful development, economic development and sustainable development in the Arctic. I fully agree with that. I think the rest of Parliament will agree with that. I'm not going to make an attempt to make such a full investigation about everything that's going to happen in the Arctic, because it doesn't allow time or my mental capacity or knowledge. However, I would like to make a few points of impact on some of the things that I think are important and that I hope the government will take into account in its work. Generally speaking, there should be the same principles for the development of society in the Arctic as there are in the rest of the Commonwealth and in the rest of the Western world: we believe in openness, transparency, market economy, free trade, international exchange, and of course also a great focus on sustainable development. All of this must be done within the framework of the Kingdom community, and there is nothing wrong with that either. The Kingdom Community is an enormously flexible structure and it allows you to have plenty of international exchange, trade, etc., as much as you would like, and much more of that can be done. The kingdom community must be constantly developed and strengthened, and it should fill much more in the work of Danish governments. It is not a criticism of the current government, it is just such a general criticism of all the governments that have been in recent Danish history: the kingdom community and the development of the Arctic should fill more. This should not be a small area under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should be its own ministry, and it should be a very large focus area. The Kingdom Community is not a foreign policy, it is the direct task of the Danish government and the Folketing, since the Folketing is the parliament of the Kingdom and not a Danish parliament. It is a task that is becoming more and more important because there are more and more forces that are pushing both the Arctic and the Commonwealth, and the government could make a big difference if it put itself in a position to strengthen cooperation on business development, tourism, export, education, research and a wide range of other areas where we could get much more out of the synergies between our three countries. Here in the Folketing it is also very obvious, I think, that we take our own responsibility on us and make greater efforts to work together within the Kingdom community by simply grabbing the North Atlantic members who sit directly down here and who are available to us every day and with whom we could have closer cooperation. In fact, I think that a very serious effort is being made by the North Atlantic members and that we really get a lot of good input from them sitting here in the Folketing and can tell us about the cases where the shoe prints and where there is a need for legislation or other initiatives to be made in a way that is more appropriate for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And I think we have a lot of that to do, but we could also get more out of it. I have long advocated that I think the North Atlantic members should have the opportunity to join, for example, the defence settlement on an equal footing with other members of the Folketing. I once spoke to a member of a government who told me that it would be unnatural because the defence is a Danish matter. And it is a pity that there are still such misunderstandings that defence and police and foreign policy, currency and other matters are Danish affairs. Because it's not. These are common matters, and that is why we have a common parliament here in the Folketing. It is just as strange and wrong to exclude Greenlandic and Faroese members of parliament from joining, for example, in the defence settlement, as if we told the members of parliament who are elected on Bornholm that they cannot be part of the defence settlement because it is a Zealand matter. It is actually the same, and it is a very strange way to put it up, that is to say that you say: 'Well, it is Zealand that pays; it is very much my own constituency out in Gentofte and in Lyngby-Taarbæk that pays the bill, and Bornholm is a deficit business that receives large subsidies from the state, and therefore they cannot be part of a defence settlement. I think perhaps that, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs would think that this was a rather unfair way of doing things. But it is actually the same thing that is said to the Faroese and Greenlandic members of the Folketing: that they cannot join because they do not pay the bill. And then they are excluded from influence in an area that has enormous importance both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. And I think that is wrong, and it is very obvious that if we are serious about the Kingdom community, we are also taking it on us here in the Folketing. In relation to the great powers, which take up a lot, I, like everyone else, was very shocked to wake up one morning to the fact that the American President had plans to buy Greenland. It is a totally anachronistic attitude that one could have 100 years ago, when one really sold the territories we sold, for example. The Danish West Indies to the United States just over 100 years ago; they could do so then, but they no longer do so, and it is completely out of step with all the values that we acknowledge today, that it was only in this way that a territory could be traded over the heads of the people who lived in that area and who had no wish for it. It was quite incredibly toned down and an extreme revelation of how little the American President knows about Greenland first of all about the conditions up there, but of course also in relation to our kingdom community. It has, of course, been a little awakening, and I think that we need to deal even more with the growing interest of various major powers, including Russia and China. I do not think we should be naive; I think we should give them space. It would be very, very strange to say to Chinese, American and Russian alike that they are not allowed to trade in Greenland. It would also be extremely anachronistic; then we would be back in colonial times when there were such monopolies of a commercial nature, which were the only ones that had to act in North Atlantic regions, and that would also be completely insane. So, of course, there must be the openness, transparency and access, as there is to Denmark too, of course, that must also apply in the North Atlantic. But I also think that we should sometimes set some counter-conditions. For example, it is now aired from the Russian side that they want a consul in Greenland. And that's very reliable and an excellent idea. I just think one can ask oneself the question: should we also have a consul in Arctic Russia, for example.? And there I would like to hear the government: when there are these opportunities, that is, when there are great powers coming and wanting something, what do we need to get back? Because this is an obvious situation when it comes to thinking: we certainly have some wishes for those we would like to see met. And there's always a bad trading position just to give something without getting anything back. I therefore believe that we should not just be inclined to say yes to anything, but that we should also set counter-conditions, such as those we have in mind. that the openness that Russia is now asking for is being reciprocated, so that we also have a knowledge of what is happening on the other side of the North Pole, where we also want to know what is going on. It is a bit worrying what Russia is doing in relation to the arms build-up that is taking place in the Arctic, and I certainly think there is reason to keep an eye on that. Nor do I share the naivety that I think some rapporteurs have expressed, that is to say we should just rust down while others rust up. Again: there has to be reciprocity in the way we act, and unilateral disarmament will certainly be very, very stupid and also difficult to reconcile with the need to maintain confidence in being a credible ally, ensuring that the territory for which we are responsible is protected and not just something that lies and that you can just come and take if you like. I don't think anyone has any interest in that. Therefore, the Danish defence must be able to enforce sovereignty in the areas that are Danish, and it is of course important that it remains at a level that is high enough for us to be able to carry out that task. I think there are major tasks ahead of us. I really hope that the government will give priority to this area. I think we could have done that in the past too, but now the government has the opportunity to do so, and I hope that we will do so and put an ambitious strategy, put a lot of resources into developing solutions that can strengthen the Kingdom community, and always based on the fact that it should benefit all three countries. The only way the kingdom community can survive is if both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands constantly have the advantages of being in it, and I hope the government will take great care to do so, and that the government will bear in mind that the government is not a Danish government but also a government for Greenland and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145719	Thank you. I just noticed that little trick with Gentofte. I know there are many people who make a lot of money in Gentofte, but I also understand that they take good care of them and very much do not want to pay taxes. So I doubt that it holds in its entirety in reality, that is to say, the comparison with the fact that they are major suppliers of money to the Danish state. I would like to hear how Conservatives' decision and acceptance of the exclusion of the fishing fleet of the Faroe Islands in Danish ports, when the Faroe Islands and the EU disagreed on fishing quotas, is in line with the very, very bloomy talk about free trade and free opportunities for countries to be able to trade with each other. It was a total blockade of the fishing trade, and it was one of the countries in the Commonwealth that blocked in favour of someone down in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145814	Yes, but that is related to the fact that Denmark and the rest of the Commonwealth have different status compared to being part of the European Union. It complicates things quite a bit. I have often talked to Faroese politicians about whether they would like to join the European Union, and I have the impression that there is very, very little interest in that, among other things. because, in a situation like this, you find yourself in a butter hole and have some export opportunities that you do not have if you are part of the European Union. I really think that is a shame. But Russia has behaved very badly, and we in Denmark and the European Union have had to react to this, and it put us in this bizarre situation, which I also think was very, very absurd, that the Commonwealth was on different sides of a trade blockade of Russia. It was very difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145908	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145909	Yes, and then there was a situation where consideration for the European Union was greater than consideration for the friends of the Commonwealth, and there chose Conservative consideration for the European Union and threw the Faroe Islands into the arms of the Russian market. It was, in fact, the decision that made the Faroe Islands have to find other markets. I guess they had to, 'cause they were gonna starve or what? We cannot simply say that the Russians are ugly when it was ourselves, or when it was at least the Conservatives together with bourgeois politicians who brought that situation forward instead of opening up the ports.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020145947	I also found it very difficult that we had to face the situation in which Denmark was to be involved in enforcing something that had consequences for the Faroe Islands and that was negative for the Faroe Islands. It was a very, very absurd situation. But I do not think that is a fair interpretation, as Mr. Christian Juhl is coming with us. Rather, I think it can be said that we chose our legal obligations in relation to the treaties that we are part of in the European Union, and we had to respect them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150011	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150014	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur is right, of course, that the Arctic is filling something more, and I would also like to begin by welcoming the rapporteur back. After all, the rapporteur is also talking about the fact that there should be a ministry focused on the Arctic, and this is actually something that IA has been focusing on during the election campaign just over a year ago. It is the case that the Arctic takes up very little space, for example. The Ministry of Research and that the Arctic fills relatively little over in the Ministry of Culture, and although we have taken back many of these things, we would like to coordinate it more closely, with respect, of course, that Greenland has taken back the areas that they have once taken home. So I actually believe that an Arctic ministry and an Arctic minister will help us to give greater priority to the Arctic and to be better at coordinating and having a closer dialogue. However, my comment is actually about the issue of the defence settlement, because I am very pleased that the rapporteur supports Greenland's wish to join the defence settlement, and it is indeed the case that we are already taking part in a number of negotiations at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150121	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen knows that I do. Because we have been talking about this for years and we have been in dialogue about it here, where I have always said that I think it would be sensible, for example, that we should have a debate about this. IA gets an opportunity to join the defense settlement. There are no parties that can be guaranteed to join, for that requires, for example, that. that one can agree to the principles of a defence settlement and that one is, moreover, a fairly defence-friendly party, etc. There's a reason, for example. The Enhedslisten is not usually invited into the conciliation circle because it seems that they are simply too hostile to defence and there is not exactly a community where we can work together. So there are no parties that can say that one is allowed to participate, but one should be offered to be on the same criteria as the other parties in the Folketing. There are no A and B memberships of the Folketing, and everyone should have the opportunity to be involved in the things that are relevant to them. I think that special defence is extremely relevant to Greenland because it fills so much up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150225	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150226	Thank you very much. In any case, it must be said that defence takes up a great deal when we talk about the Arctic in these years, and it is appropriate that Greenland also has a voice of its own. It could then be direct to the Minister, and it could be on equal terms with the rest of the defence committee. But at least we are not afraid of taking co-responsibility on the part of the IA, and we also believe that we have some knowledge to contribute to strengthen the defence settlement that is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150254	Yes, and I agree with that. I also think that the input that we have received from IA is very specific input about, for example. the possibility of holding a session in Greenland and strengthening the preparedness, etc. So, after all, many of the inputs have been listened to, and this has also resulted in concrete results that have been achieved, and I would, of course, also like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150318	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, JF Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150321	Thank you. Thank you for your speech and thank you for your commendation. I totally agree. I also often wonder why Danish foreign policy looks so much south and so little north, so little around itself where you are actually on the planet. I fully agree with that and it is a strange thing. So I would now like to give the rapporteur a chance, just as I do, to look at his point of view. What does the rapporteur think Danish foreign policy would look like if the kingdom were complete as it is now, with Denmark in the EU and with the Faroe Islands and Greenland etc., but Copenhagen was in Greenland? What would the foreign policy look like, the rapporteur thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150405	Yes, it would be very different. There is no doubt about that. It is a very interesting thought experiment, and there is no doubt that we would spend much more effort on orientation towards the Arctic and relate to cooperation with Canada and the United States and sailing routes through the North Atlantic and many other things like fishing zones and all sorts of other things that matter up there. Yes, we should be much more interested in that. But I think it's because there's a distance ring going on, and that's because there's always this independence discussion that pushes Danes and Danish politicians back, and where you get the impression that it's probably best if you keep a low profile and don't say much. Because they want to be allowed to decide for themselves, and if we come up with initiatives, they feel that we are pushing something over their heads, and we are also a little offended by constantly listening to this discussion of independence, because they do not like us in Denmark. It is quite harmful, and that is why I wish it could fill a little less and that the constructive discussions about what we can get out of our kingdom community could fill something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150513	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150514	I fully agree with that. The fact is that Denmark always refers to the United States as its closest security ally and so on, and you want to cooperate with the United States, and you do a lot of things like that in the United States. Middle East. There you use a lot of resources. Could you not also be a very good, stable and important ally with the United States and even put your own fingerprints on what happens in the region if you put more energy north than you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150543	Yeah, no doubt about it. Denmark is often accused of using Greenland in particular to get points in Washington, and I do not think that is right. But there is no doubt that it also means a great deal in relation to relations with the United States, and that is the geography that exists, and I do not think anyone should be blamed for that. It is quite natural, of course, that this cooperation with the Americans should be pursued and that we should always have a close dialogue with them, with respect for the framework that is now in the Commonwealth, where I think the Americans, among other things. with a purchase offer has stepped a lot side by side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150622	The next brief remark is to Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150626	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov said the Russians wanted a consul in Russia. That is simply not correct. You may have expressed a desire to have an honorary consul. - Sir... Rasmus Jarlov tells us what the difference is between an honorary consul and a real consul? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150648	No, I cannot, but I am sure Mrs Annette Lind can and would like to, since that is what the so-called question was about. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150658	This is very important. For an honorary consul is someone who is not a diplomat, it is someone who does not have a consulate. It is also one that deals with citizens' services issues for a group of tourists. So I'd like to ask you when sir... Rasmus Jarlov asks if we should have one of these in the Arctic regions of Russia, and if we are to deal with citizens' service issues, like many other countries with an honorary consul in Greenland, will Conservatives spend money on it in the Arctic regions of Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150732	No, it doesn't seem very relevant. I also agree that it was an honorary consul, and I apologise if I have expressed myself imprecisely. Without being able to explain the exact difference between the two, I am aware that this is what was asked. And no, there is probably hardly a basis for much work to ensure a smooth process in relation to work permits, etc. in the Arctic part of Russia, since it seems that there are quite a few Danes or Greenlanders or Faroe Islands who move over there. But I think it is actually relevant that we should have access to follow what is happening over there, because I think we should pay a little more attention to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150815	So there are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020150825	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on cooperation in the Arctic. In the coming years, the Kingdom of Denmark will operate in a world which is in many ways at a turning point. The challenges are many and multifaceted; the great powers of the United States, China and Russia are fighting an increasingly intense and hard battle in the Arctic, in the front and back gardens of the Danish kingdom. As the ice melts in the Arctic, the fight deals with the interests of the great powers in each of them to gain influence and thus ensure access to natural resources and to maritime routes in the Arctic region. The northernmost areas of the Danish Empire, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, are thus the subject of enhanced diplomatic, commercial and political interest by the great powers. In the transatlantic relationship with the Empire, the United States is maintained as one of the closest allies. The Kingdom Community can act as a bridge builder between Europe, the Arctic and the United States and maintain the American commitment to the security of the Kingdom Community. Denmark's international commitment to the territorial and commercial interests of the Kingdom must therefore be given priority by the Danish Parliament, in close and continuous cooperation between the Danish Government, the Faroese Home Rule Government and Greenlandic self-government. This requires effort and cooperation within the Kingdom Community, but also internationally, the Kingdom Community must work together, and we must take advantage of the opportunities for influence that we have as an Arctic great power. The politicians, diplomacy, defence and the business community can place Denmark firmly in international cooperation. Together we can best preserve and further develop a safe, free and prosperous kingdom on a Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish basis of value for the benefit of the entire population of the whole Kingdom community. Now we have talked about the presence of the military, and I would like to say that New Citizens also believe that we must strengthen our military presence in the Arctic. We also want to raise our defence budget to 2%. of bnp, and we believe that a substantial part should be used in the Arctic area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020151052	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020151101	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government for presenting the Arctic statement for 2020. Many good things have already been said about the environment and research ships and parliamentary cooperation, which I am not opposed to, but which I should not waste the parliamentary Parliament's time repeating. After all, we are also very much looking forward to the Arctic Strategy for the years 2020-2030, and we recognise, of course, the reasons set out in the statement that it has been delayed. The Covid-19 epidemic affects a great many aspects of social life and, of course, this too. For many years, and not least since the Ilulissat Declaration, it has been Danish policy to keep the Arctic as a low-voltage area. Of course, it should remain so in principle, but when I hear the debate between honourable Members, I cannot help thinking that we also need to be realistic. Greenland and the Arctic as an area will be more interesting for the United States than it already is, because it will also be more interesting for Russia and even for China, which we have already heard about. After all, all three countries are nuclear powers and have very great interests in the region, so if we are realistic, low-voltage is probably not the way to go, regardless of what one might want, and we should, of course, set out in Denmark as well. Another thing I am aware of is that efforts are being made to stimulate investment and economic development in the Arctic. I myself visited Greenland a few years ago, and we had some meetings with Greenlandic politicians and officials. I noted there a division which was often heard when we talked about economic growth, in what was called real money, and in something else that was not called real money, that is to say in something that has no name, but which is apparently something other than real money. And, of course, I think that is a very significant division. I think what real money means is private capital. And I agree that if you can stimulate the movement of private capital into the Greenlandic economy, it will be very positive and will lead to a large number of derived beneficial effects in the area. So these are some of the things I particularly take with me in addition to what has already been said in relation to the statement. With these few comments, I would like to thank again for the statement and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020151431	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from IA, and that is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020151438	Thank you very much. Greenland is 20%. of the total area in the Arctic and with its geographical location and with the natural resources we have in Greenland, plays a central strategic role for the world's great powers. In other words, Greenland is the reason why we are speaking the Arctic today. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that we at home in Greenland should also have a strategy for the Arctic, just as we have also called for a Greenlandic foreign policy strategy, and precisely the foreign policy strategy should naalaksusut be well underway, and we look forward to providing input and not least seeing the final result. The government here in Denmark is planning involvement and debate with young people about the Arctic of the future. We support this on the part of the IA, as we believe that there is a need for greater involvement of the population and especially of young people at home in Greenland when it comes to the Arctic strategy of the Kingdom. To support this, we will also work in the near future to strengthen the cooperation between the Greenland Council for Human Rights and the Institute for Human Rights here in Denmark with a special focus on knowledge and compliance with people's rights. Last year, IA was allocated money to strengthen the UN's global goals in Greenland, and quite specifically this has resulted in a new website recently launched by Naalaksuisut. As regards the importance of Greenland's geostrategic location, it is again emphasised in these years. The United States, Russia and China are showing increased interest and intensifying their involvement in the region. After 67 years, the United States reopened their consulate in Nuuk this year, and we know that agreements have been made on American investment in Greenland's infrastructure, which we do not know the details of today, but which we look forward to hearing more about. IA has been fighting for almost six years for renewal of the service contract at Pituffik, Thule Airbase, and we hope that a conclusion will soon be reached, as we believe it is absolutely central to cooperation with the United States. We believe that there is a need for us to ensure together that the contract and an overall agreement with the Americans benefit the people of Greenland. The latest shot we have seen on the tribe of diplomats in Greenland is the Russian honorary consul, who has been discussed several times here today, and that request by the Russians has apparently been approved by the Naala Suisut and has been some time along the way, one must assume. We would have liked to have been informed before we read about this position in the press. That is why, of course, it is also important that we choose our closest allies wisely. From the IA's point of view, we have worked within the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, which we also call SCPAR on a daily basis, and the work that is being done in the Arctic Council is important. The two forums are important in ensuring diplomacy in the future. People-to-people cooperation is particularly important in relation to our allies, even where we do not necessarily share values. Although a Russian honorary consul in Greenland can strengthen the diplomatic muscle, we must also remember that Russia increases their military presence and activity in the Arctic, and that armaments can make it harder to hold onto the ambition of a peaceful Arctic. It is an important balancing act, but also a very difficult balancing act; we would like to recognise that from our side. For a long time there have also been speculations as to whether China wants to create a consulate or a consul position in Greenland, and it would be quite natural to look at the fact that Naalaksuisut would like to open a representation in China next year. In the past, IA has proposed that a multi-faceted China policy be developed at home in Greenland so that we can identify areas in which we can work together without problems and in which areas we should go a little more critically about it. Following on from the interest of the great powers in the Arctic, we look forward to the necessary debate and involvement of, among others, Greenland's business community, NGOs and political parties about the screening mechanism, which is also to be discussed here in the Folketing, in relation to Denmark. This is important in relation to the necessary foreign investment, which is so important for Greenland. On the part of the IA, we believe that we should be critical of, for example: Chinese investment in critical infrastructure so that we neither get into a debt trap nor provide access to vulnerable information about our population and society. At the same time, we also recognise that more and more areas are categorized as security policy, thereby challenging our self-determination in the areas that have been repatriated. It will put our cooperation to the test, and it will require that the close and good dialogue, which I have the impression there are these years, will be strengthened even more in the years to come. For IA, it is important to emphasise that a right of veto on the Danish side must not be abused. We would really like to ensure cooperation and ensure that Greenland's own role in our own country is not undermined. The government has for many years supported UArctic, which is a collaboration between universities in the Arctic. UArctic's work is important for Greenlandic students who have the opportunity to enter an exchange in the Arctic. This allows international teachers from the Arctic to come to Greenland and teach young Greenlanders and give them some new knowledge. This helps to create a rich international education environment, and that is why we would also call on the government to continue that grant of 3 million. kr., which up to now has been given to UArctic. This year we also know that research funds are being negotiated, and in reality it is really a pity that these critical voices are coming in, among other things. from Denmark, which is annoying about other countries' increasing research activity in Greenland, without our own efforts to ensure that we from Denmark also ensure increased research activity in Greenland. We need to change that, because if we want to be an Arctic power, it is also important that we have a much greater commitment to research, including greater involvement of the more and more Greenlandic researchers coming and joint projects between Greenland and Denmark. The government has also contributed to the establishment of an Arctic research hub at the University of Greenland, and it is a very good start that this initiative has been taken, but in reality it should be anchored to a much greater extent at home in Greenland. Last year we also talked about the establishment of the Greenland International Institute for Arctic Studies, which should focus on foreign policy and security policy, at the University of Greenland. We still believe that it is highly topical to focus on both a knowledge build-up in the field of foreign and security policy in Greenland, so that a more proactive and knowledge-based foreign policy can be conducted. A key motto for us at IA is: nothing about us without us. The message is quite simple: At all meetings and events about Greenland, Greenland should also sit with. Nothing about us without us. This is also true of the recent debate in Greenland on the municipality managers and villagers' access to welfare, which the undersigned took up during the opening debate. Therefore, I am also very pleased that IA will collect knowledge, hear the party and the hinterland and come up with an initiative to ensure that the settlements also have an increased political focus. It is quite natural that we should listen to the people who live in the villages of Greenland and in the towns from which people move. My message today, as was also in the opening debate, is that strong settlements must be strengthened and settlements depopulated and with little basis for life need to be given more attention. Of course it is a matter that we have to raise at home in Greenland, and it is important that the citizens in these settlements are consulted, but it is also really important in relation to the work we are doing here in the Folketing because it is being made difficult in these years. IA has never talked about forced relocation or forced closure of any settlements.I think it's really important to stress that, on the contrary, we want people to be heard. Security, economic development, human development should not be for the few, but should be for everyone. Qujanaq thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152421	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152426	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. Now I know that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is incredibly concerned about the social conditions in Greenland, not least the conditions of the children, and has also led a stronger cooperation with Greenland, which of course has overall responsibility, but also receives additional resources from Denmark. I also know that more police resources are being negotiated in the police conciliation and so on. I am a little curious to hear what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen really considers to be the status of that cooperation, because I do not think anyone knows it better than her, including whether she considers that we are in this way in terms of what is needed of resources, including staff resources. It is also often a question of getting people with the right qualifications or whether there is more we could do together, whether there is a need for Denmark to play a greater role here, or whether with the initiatives that have already been taken we are on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152528	Thank you for the question. I hear it as if it is a lot about exposed children at home in Greenland? First of all, a total of 100 million has been set aside. kr., 80 million. kr. from the Folketing and 20 million. kr. In my view, many of the initiatives that are being pointed out are helping to close some gaps. This helps to ensure that we live up to the legislation we have today, but which we have not been able to live up to today, to ensure that there is a case worker when children turn to the social services and to ensure that something actually happens. But it's also a little fire-fighting to be completely honest, and what I think could be extremely interesting to work with much more is the very early initiative, i.e. from 0 to 2 years, and how we can prevent the abuse from happening to these children. It should be in everyone's interest. It should be in everyone's interest for those who might want to violate children to be helped more quickly. It must be in everyone's interest that those who are victims of sexual abuse also receive help much earlier than what they are actually doing today. So there really is a prevention focus that we need to have too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152634	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152635	Thank you. I think that sounds incredibly right, and I should like to say that we are struggling a little with the same problems in Denmark in relation to prevention. But is it something that calls for a more intensified cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, or is it something that Greenland, if it is to be said, can handle itself with advantage, according to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152709	Thank you. Naalaksuisut has acknowledged that in the social field it has failed in relation to the most vulnerable children in Greenland, and it is certainly an invitation that we will have to continue this cooperation after 2023. I think it is extremely important to maintain the hope that it is actually possible to break the social heritage. I was involved in a project where we actually reduced crime in a very specific city by 45%. by working with a number of elements. So things can be done, and I think it is important to keep hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152744	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152748	Thank you for the floor. I will end up asking myself whether the Folketing really is the right forum to take it back into with barley closures. I am particularly surprised when the AI has officially announced that it is certainly not an IA policy, even if it is not a coercive one. However, there was talk of natural closures of settlements, among other things, as the rapporteur also said in the Parliamentary Chamber, given that there were many who did not have municipal officers, although the only requirement here was really a criminal record. And when we have a UN declaration that says we have some human rights for inigenous people, I am also surprised that you cannot relocate ingenous people. How does it relate to IA's policy, and when is it Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's policy? Is the Folketing really the right forum to take it up, especially when we're talking about the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020152854	The reality is that 21 settlements have been closed since home rule. The reality is also that every year about 100 people move from the settlements. That's a pretty high number. And in fact, Siumut, who was in charge of Naalaksuisut, came up with this report... The necessary priority, which in turn said the same thing, as I said from the platform in 2016. Since then more than 400 people have moved from the settlements. There are people who sit out in the settlements, especially the most vulnerable, who, as such, are the ones I am most concerned with who really need more help. A lot of reports show that. One may disagree with the solution itself, but to dare to take the discussion, to dare to talk about the development that is taking place, and which is not only happening in Greenland, but also happening in Denmark, i.e. this urbanisation that is happening, I think it is really important to get to grips with. That is why I am very, very pleased that the IA has just taken the initiative to say: let us make a policy in this area which we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153001	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153003	The debate is usually welcome, but it is a Greenlandic matter, and it is mostly the shame of our own people in this Parliament that I am not so much in favour of. But let me come back to the debate on the Arctic. The rapporteur says that we must also bear in mind that there must be a balance in that armaments. But I would also like to ask a question: is it again Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's policy, or is it IA's policy? I have some doubts lately, because IA has a very, very clear policy, namely that we are opposed to increased arms build-up in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153041	I think perhaps the rapporteur should read out some of the responsibilities we have here in the Danish Parliament, because the municipal managers are actually one of those responsibilities. And some of what has been important to IA in the Folketing for the last many years, even before I was here, has just been to ensure that every village should have a municipal jail. In many of the settlements we have helped to ensure that there is not only one municipal bailiff, but two municipal bailiffs, because it is a really difficult task to solve out there in the settlements. So I would like to hear from Siumut what you are going to do about the migration from the settlements to the cities, and what you are going to do about ensuring municipal guards and legal certainty throughout Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153119	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153123	Thank you. In Denmark, too, we have just let things flow and let the villages die by themselves. Is it more humanistic than getting hold of them? I would like to ask a question about that, not today, but when we discuss rural areas. I was thinking that there has been a debate here this week 42 about some new ones, what to call them, cases in which children are adopted or perhaps adopted or adopted on a false basis, and where they come down to the Danish families on a not very regulated basis. What is the rapporteur's position on this new information, which is certainly new to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153211	Thank you for the question. It is perhaps important to emphasise that these are historic matters, so these are not topical matters. But what it is all about is that IA has in the past made a proposal for an apology to the experimental children. And in this regard, we have come across some knowledge that some adoptions have taken place in the past for about the same period of time as that of the experimental children who may not have been entirely legal or who have at least been at odds with the law. And that's where we think there's a need to uncover this. We know that there will be this report, where there are a number of researchers who have looked at exactly the experimental children, and that is where we think these adoptions should in some way be uncovered in connection with that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153255	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153257	Well, I look forward to following it, because I think it's quite interesting. At the moment, we also have a completely different matter: a case of children who, bypassing all legislation, have been adopted from Chile during the dictatorship to Denmark. And I think it's important that we get something like this up to the surface. Another question I have is: how does the rapporteur view the concept of low-voltage in the Ilulissat Declaration? Now we have discussed this and some people think that when we arm up, we can work for low-voltage at the same time as it cannot really fit inside my head, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153334	Thank you very much. First of all, I think it is important that we have a common understanding of these cuts in history that we need to rectify. So I certainly hope the government will take that up when this report comes later. However, in relation to low voltage, I would say that I think it is absolutely, absolutely central and it is also extremely worrying to follow the developments that are taking place. I would very much like to see diplomatic action turned up in this way and done what you could there, rather than thinking that it is only combat aircraft and the sort of thing that needs to be done. And then there are such very specific emergency tasks in Greenland, which lack some more attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153411	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153414	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. A little further to what the rapporteur asked me during my speech, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can elaborate on the ideas she has put forward in relation to how we can strengthen industrial cooperation within the Kingdom Community between Denmark and Greenland so that we can all get richer and hopefully in the long term Greenland can become more self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153443	Thank you very much. First of all, I think it is about the good cooperation that exists between the Growth Fund and Greenland Venture. I think we should strengthen that. We know that many of the money is being spent, and that is why I think it is appropriate to look a little more forward and look at what we can do to cooperate in this area. I have already said that many of the investments in the raw materials sector come from either Canada, Australia or England, and I think it is quite appropriate that Denmark should also come into play, just as I also think that the European Union is interesting to think into the raw materials sector. I think it is important from the point of view of Greenland to have a business policy line on what we want, also in recognition that we may not be able to do it all at once. The raw material area has filled a lot, but it has also proved very difficult for Greenland as well as to ensure some good results in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153535	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153536	I personally think that some interesting opportunities arise in connection with this investment in the runways, in which Denmark is also involved. What opportunities does the rapporteur see for us to be able to cooperate in getting a comprehensive view of what needs to be done in relation to investment, marketing and infrastructure, if this is also to be a success in terms of tourism, which can help to strengthen Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153605	It is quite obvious to cooperate in this area, and I also know that Visit Greenland has a plan so that they are just ready when the runways are ready, first in Nuuk and later in Ilulissat. One of the other areas that I also find interesting to talk about is in fact the question of how we can create green business development in Greenland. I think it is quite obvious to look at how to create some business development that is also sustainable. I think that the fishing area is quite obvious to look at, in terms of whether it is something we could cultivate even more, rather than disclaiming it as an area, because it is only of the utmost importance to Greenland's economy, even to this day.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153645	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from Siumut, and that is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020153657	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. A peaceful and secure Arctic, trusting regional and international cooperation, man at the heart, sustainable economic development, protection of nature, environment and climate, increased knowledge and research on the Arctic. These are the issues raised in the report, and these are some issues which we also address from Siumut's point of view. They're very important. When I looked through the whole statement, I noticed that Greenland is becoming more and more involved, and it is pleasing. I prayed, among other things. notice that when we talk about sustainable economic development, we also have to think about what it looks like in Greenland's Arctic. If we think of settlements, for example, we have to develop settlements on their own terms, for their own people. I have been in some places where they are experts in making jewelry; they are experts in making kayaks, and they are experts in processing seal meat and everything else. If you give people the opportunity to do what they are already good at and give them the opportunity to develop, then they bloom. It is also important to note that biodiversity is being strengthened here. There are a lot of young people in Greenland who, through grassroots movements, have started talking more and more about climate; there are people who start their own trade unions and organisations in high school, and there is a brand new one called Greenland for Climate, who has started talking and creating discussions and debates on their own initiative for young people because they believe that we must protect our planet. I have participated in one of the events with a biodiversity workshop organized by the young people themselves, and I also noticed the potential of our country's population. There are a great many educated people whom we do not even look at on paper, because we would rather look at how many people do not finish their education, instead of looking at what percentage of the population has actually moved on over the last 40 years. Many people think that we need to develop in a sustainable way, in which we develop our own food and not just keep importing food, because we also need to think about the biodiversity of our country. Here I noticed that the statement also talks about heavy fuel oil. I think that is important. But I also think it is important that we should have the people at the centre. So if the cuts on heavy fuel oil mean that in the settlements you can no longer buy a bag filled with food for DKK 250, but instead start buying food for DKK 600, then we also have to think about how we don't make the inequality bigger. In other words, whether some form of compensation should be granted to the Royal Arctic Line, so that we make sure that inequality does not increase in the population. There are some things that we need to be aware of because it needs to be done better. There is far too little mention of environmental clean-up in the report. It says it's gonna take years. But I would rather see how we can do more about it together. Several Community activities have now also been carried out on the monitoring of the Arctic and the enforcement of sovereignty. Now, too, voluntary corps are being set up. I have talked to KNAPK, which is the Greenlandic Fishermen's and Prisoners' Organisation, which has also been asked how these voluntary fishermen and hunters can start to help ensure the enforcement of sovereignty. If there are great opportunities in that, I would like to look at what other options there are, among other things. in terms of clean-up in our nature, which is of course of great concern to many people. I think it is important that we also think about our safety at sea, in other words at sea. Here, too, the statement talks about being proactive, and immediately I thought that we need to think that new shipping routes will emerge when the sea ice and inland ice melt. What is the development we would like to see in relation to the law of the sea? What's it gonna look like in Greenland? How are we to ensure that it does not destroy biodiversity and that it does not destroy culture and way of life? How do we keep sustaining sustainable development without shutting people out? I would like to have a longer and more thorough discussion and dialogue on this. In those words, I would like to thank you very briefly for your cooperation; I look forward to hearing more from all parties about future developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154253	Thank you. It is just over 10 years since we had the law of self-government and the introduction of self-government. I would really like to ask: what has Siumut done over the last ten years to strengthen the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154315	What I always think of when I hear DF and Søren Espersen talk is that I have noticed that every time Søren Espersen talks about the Kingdom Community and Greenland, it is also the fact that you have to talk about what the Kingdom Community does for Greenland and vice versa. That's what you were talking about at some point, and I also noticed that sometimes you forget to talk about what it really is that Denmark also gets out of Greenland. If we forget to have that talk, the discussion about what Greenland should have done for the Kingdom community will actually become more blurry. As far as I can see, Greenland has done enough for the kingdom community that we now have, even after the introduction of self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154400	I would remind the rapporteur that the use of direct indictments from the platform is not being accepted. Sir. Søren Espersen to another remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154406	Thank you for your answer. I do not think I was given an answer, so I will repeat my question: what has Siumut done for the Kingdom community for the last ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154416	Siumut has strengthened the dialogue with the Kingdom Community. Siumut has strengthened trade relations so that we can also become more economically self-sustaining. These things are important, because if we continue to be too dependent on each other, this unequal power relationship also helps to strengthen this hostility towards each other. In order to dismantle it, we also need to strengthen the relationship with the power relationship, among other things. by getting more into the globalised world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154456	Thank you to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Sambands party, and that is Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go, and welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020154507	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement. First of all, I think it is positive that the Arctic will have so much place in the political debate here in the Folketing. Much has changed since the last Arctic strategy was drawn up in 2011, and it is therefore gratifying that we will soon have a new Arctic strategy • a strategy that we have jointly defined between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland; it is very important that it has a good breeding ground. In my speech to the debate on the Arctic statement last year, I highlighted my surprise at the wording that activities relating to the relationship between Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands are dealt with in the government's annual statement on the Kingdom Community, as it says not in the Arctic statement and the wording has again been written down verbatim this year. I find this unfortunate, as Denmark is only a part because of it It is therefore strange to talk about the Arctic without also talking about the Kingdom Community. The Arctic and the Commonwealth are contingent upon each other. That is why I hope that the government is considering removing this wording for next year's statement. And I can see that the Secretary of State has already noted this. Thank you. I have no doubt that we in the Kingdom Community will benefit from a new long-term strategy, a strategy that will provide a solid cross-cutting foundation for cooperation on the Arctic. At the same time, the strategy should be able to be continuously evaluated and updated to ensure consistency between the strategy and developments in the real world. As you know, climate change in the Arctic leads to the withdrawal of the ice, which opens up new shipping routes, especially in the summer. Ship traffic has already grown in the Arctic and will increase considerably in the years to come. And even if climate change opens up new shipping routes, weather conditions are still challenging ice and extreme weather will challenge ship traffic. It makes great demands on the preparedness in the area. Greenland's coastline is over 44,000 km. The Faroe Islands, on the other hand, are a small country, but the sea area is about the size of Great Britain. This places disproportionate demands on the preparedness of the two countries. Another concern for those of us who live in the region under discussion today is military expansion in the region. The Minister says in the statement that Russia in particular is giving priority to military expansion in the Arctic and is consolidating its military position along the northern flank of Russia, as it says. So, although the kingdom and the Arctic states have a low-voltage objective in the region, that objective is challenged with Russia's consolidation. The new sailing routes will pass the Faroe Islands. Therefore, the Faroe Islands will also have a central role in the Arctic. We already see that shipping has increased. Due to the increase in shipping traffic and the location of the Faroe Islands in the middle of the new sailing route, it is obvious that the Faroe Islands will be a new maritime centre in the North Atlantic. I have been wondering for a long time that the Arctic is no longer a part of Danish foreign policy, in fact in the foreign policy of the Commonwealth. Denmark's influence is quite limited in other hotspots of the world, but the Kingdom is together an Arctic great power. Here we can have decisive geopolitical influence. The Arctic should therefore, in my opinion, fill much more in the Danish debate on future foreign policy. The Arctic should be Denmark's most important foreign policy priority. Finally, I would like to say that the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark together have a very great impact, and we must make use of it, of course we must, but at the same time we also have a great impact and a great responsibility to make use of our key location. To succeed, it requires that we have a common will to prioritize our community and the Arctic at all. So, President, it has been interesting to follow the debate today, and I look forward to the new Arctic strategy seeing the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155143	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155149	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. I would like to put a question a little further to what I also put to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, namely in relation to what the rapporteur sees as opportunities for us to strengthen cooperation within the Kingdom Community in order to ensure growth, development and investment in all three parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155210	Thank you. It's a big question, but it's also a big kingdom community. I have many times made up my mind as to why we let the great powers control us and not try to control our own kingdom community. I have in mind that Denmark runs well economically and that the Faroe Islands run well economically, while Greenland is so large a country that it is half of Europe, we usually say, with 55,000 people. It can never expand itself quickly. Therefore, we should make a plan for helping with the expansion of infrastructure, of airfields, of road networks, of ports and of road links to mining, which is so much talked about up there. If you have to think out loud, you have to have big money for 2 billion. kr. a year for a 10-year period or something. And I honestly believe that the Faroe Islands should pay their share and Denmark its share, and then we should aim for entrepreneurs in our kingdom community to be activated for these expansions. It would help something.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155346	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson for another brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155350	Thank you for your answer. These are some very interesting thoughts, big thoughts, but it is also important that we get these things on the table when we have these debates. After all, the Americans are in dialogue about what they can do, so I look forward to talking to Mr. Edmund Joensen in relation to these thoughts, because there are some interesting perspectives in it again with the reservation that it obviously requires that it is something that Greenland might also want to go into.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155423	Thank you. Of course, it is based on Greenland being involved in this and Greenland having to vouch for it. And it should have nothing to do with the Finance Act; it should be expansion money and nothing else. So, of course, the idea is that with this expansion we are taking the pressure from the great powers to get to grips with the same things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155451	There is another brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155455	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and also thank you for a very good speech. We talk a lot about Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Denmark and Greenland, but it is also really interesting to talk about the relationship between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. One of the things that I know the rapporteur is also concerned with is a Faroese-Greenland dictionary. This is one of the concrete things that can also help to link up, but it could also be interesting to hear the rapporteur, who is an experienced master, about what we could do within the Kingdom community among all three countries in fact in relation to getting closer to each other a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155538	What the questioner is talking about with a dictionary, we have tried to raise money so that we can get it started. It is absolutely important that we work constantly to understand each other, that we can talk to each other. So it is a good tool that I will support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155608	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155609	Other things that could be pointed out could also be a pool under the Danish Film Institute, which provided an opportunity for there to be some more Faroese films and Greenlandic films. I also know that there are some obstacles in the legislation that mean that you cannot cooperate so much, so that is one of the things that could also be very interesting to look at a little further. Is there any other vision that the rapporteur has in terms of strengthening cooperation within the Kingdom Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155636	Now, I must honestly admit that in the film industry I have no expertise, but I know that it interests a lot of people to try to make films. So that is also one thing for which we absolutely must take an interest in ensuring that we get a grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155704	So there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen of the Samband Party. Then we welcome Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020155714	Thank you. Thank you for the statement and the debate. It says a little about the development and dynamics of the Arctic area that if we look at today's agenda, we could deal with this item and the next item and the next item together. This applies to the statement on cooperation in the Arctic, the statement by the Minister for Defence on defence and emergency cooperation and network and information security, all of which relate to practically the same thing, which is getting into each other. That is why it is important to be informed of what is happening and to find a balance that is acceptable to all parties. The priority of these areas is getting higher and higher. We have this debate every year and we see that the statement is getting longer and longer every year. An Arctic delegation has been set up, and all the parts of the empire have been taken into account to a much greater extent than has been done before. It's very important, and it also takes a lot to make this work. One thing is to coordinate economic, political and defence matters, but they must be coordinated by a kingdom which is itself a conglomerate. It is geographically, demographically and economically a combination of unimaginably unequal elements • the Kingdom of Denmark; it can hardly be more difficult to make it work. It is therefore incredibly important that we have a constant dialogue and understanding and knowledge so that each country has space, as well as that together we find solutions that we can stand together. I will deal with some things in the debate that has been going on. One is the one that has come from the Left. In several articles it has been said that Denmark must help put pressure on the Commission in Brussels so that Faroese goods have better access to the European market. This is something I have talked about many times myself, so I am happy with that proposal and I hope it will be received with open arms. That should be possible. After all, there are some wounds left from 2013-14, where the European Commission made some mistakes due to some erroneous information, some erroneous facts, boycotted the Faroe Islands completely for a whole year, and this created a very unfortunate situation in the Kingdom community, where Faroese ships could not access Danish ports for a whole year, and we had to change the entire export from one day to the next, and so we were driven into the Russian market. One should be able to use that as an argument for having something to make up for. Then, of course, as is shown in what has been written about this, it is on the Left that Russia is not a country that you would like to be very, very closely associated with economics. Russia is being very bully in these years, both in terms of military activity and, above all, in terms of constant disinformation, the constant attempts to destabilise democratic countries on the part of Russia day in and day out. It is not fortunate for the Faroe Islands to be very, very bound by exports to Russia, nor is it in Denmark's interest, nor is it in Europe's interest that we have such a very close connection with Russia, and therefore the government should be sensitive to the argument of opening up Faroese goods to the European market more easily. Then they'll do it too. Then I would like to say straight away that exporting to Russia sometimes sounds in the press in Denmark as if only the Faroe Islands are doing so. It's not like that. Denmark exports everything Russia wants to buy in Denmark and the whole of Europe exports everything Russia wants to buy in Europe. In fact, exports have been steadily increasing over the past many years. But in the Faroese case, of course, it is a little extreme because we are the only ones exporting food to Russia. I hope it will be possible for us to get an understanding of it in Brussels, so let us open it up. Where you are financially linked, you also become politically linked, so it will link the Faroe Islands closer to Europe, which I think would be in everyone's interest, but it just should not be done by force. As far as the Arctic strategy is concerned, I have a concrete proposal which is that the Faroe Islands should be involved as much as possible at the practical level. Both I and others have spoken of the need to replace the ships that enforce sovereignty in the North Atlantic. They are more than 30 years old, and it is old in this regard. Such ships do not have to be offered throughout Europe, they can be built on their own. There is no demand for it, because when it is military hardware, you do not have to put it in tender. There are two shipyards in Denmark, one of which is in the Faroe Islands, and if you get the Faroese shipyard involved, it will be a practical involvement which is extremely important for you to have such a sense of co-responsibility. There is also a radar that needs to be set up. Unfortunately, it needs to be set up. I am convinced of this, because we cannot allow all sorts of activities around the Faroe Islands which we are not aware of. It is incredibly important that you do not make the mistake that you made during the Cold War, namely that you just do it yourself, decide and then do it, but that you involve both Faroese authorities in the decision and involve the Faroese business community in the practical work, and here I am thinking of the whole It gives a sense of responsibility, a sense of being involved in this, which will be very valuable. With regard to the United States' interest in Greenland and partly also in the Faroe Islands, I would like to say that the American ambassador has been in the Faroe Islands several times and said that one would like to cooperate and that one would like to have everything possible up and running in cooperation with the Faroe Islands, and that is something that I very much welcome. I don't see what the problem is in it at all. During the Cold War, the only thing anyone saw was the United States on the Faroe Islands, soldiers, ships and radars; everything was military. You never saw anything civilian. It is far better to have a civil relationship with those who protect you, as it will give belonging a completely different dimension, which I think would benefit everyone. Many people are sceptical about the United States today because there is a President who undermines many pillars of democracy and who constantly attacks the electoral system, the judicial system, the press, and that is very worrying. But the system in the United States is bigger than the President, and that must always be kept in mind. It is completely futile to talk about China being better to cooperate with, because Trump is the way he is. China is a system that is anti-democratic, while the United States is a system that is democratic, but you have a president at the moment, which I understand you are a little worried about. After all, we have representations in Iceland, in Copenhagen, in Brussels, in London, in Beijing and in Moscow, but we have no one in Washington; there is no formal channel from the US authorities to the Faroese authorities, and that is why we as MPs are often contacted by the American Embassy, and they ask about that and that and about factual facts and how we feel about it and how we think about it and how we think about it. There is simply a lack of a channel that we have with both Russia and with China and with other countries. I think that is a mistake too. I see that time is running out, so I am not going to say so much more, but I hope that the concrete impetus for the Arctic strategy, the involvement of all parties at the specific level, both politically and practically, will be welcomed, because it is when it comes to practical matters, in other words when you go from word to action, that it means something. We should preferably not end up in the situation we had during the Cold War, where everything that was going on in the Faroe Islands felt like something foreign to the Faroese people, because they had not been involved in deciding it, had not been involved in doing so, because it was something that was agreed between Denmark and the United States, and then it was just there. It created very great resistance, and it was also what caused many conflicts between Denmark and the Faroe Islands during the Cold War, and it constantly created dissatisfaction in the form of protests and everything. That's what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160703	Thank you. There is a brief comment, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur to stand still. It's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160708	The rapporteur had a debate with the SF rapporteur earlier this afternoon on radars, and I think it was very unmanageable from both sides. Well, I've been in the defense... maybe it puzzles some, but I have... and there I was at the Air Force. It meant we had guns and radars. Those guns couldn't be used for anything if there wasn't a radar on the side that could track the enemy plane and that could give signals to which direction the cannon was supposed to shoot. You didn't do that with old-fashioned sights, you did it that way. The same is true of the large radar up in Pituffik: it is primarily intended for the Americans to be able to set their anti-air guns in good time and to direct them towards, for example, the United States. a nuclear missile or whatever would come against them. And that means that it is an integral part of the defence system, of the military system. But if you put the same radar, modified, on a ship, yes, the task is to find the way for the ship and tell you that there is something here that you shouldn't sail into. There I think it is about where it is placed, and there is no doubt that a radar in Greenland and a radar in the Faroe Islands will be perceived as part of the defence unless it is used for purely civilian purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160830	We've been through this sometimes. I am incredibly sorry that it has come there. But when you look at the flights made by the Russian side and when you look at the reaction that Sweden had a week ago, where they are now simply increasing the defence budget by 40%, because Russia is so close to Gotland, and when you see the agreement that Finland and Sweden have made, that you can exchange soldiers between the two countries at one day's notice without involving the parliaments, because Russia is so close, then you have to understand that this is simply necessary. It's not just a question of where to place the radar. It is also a question of who places the radar, and now it is the United States. Well, it's the leader of the Western world who places the radar or controls it like that in the end. It is the Western world that we are part of, and I firmly believe that the Faroe Islands should make their contribution to the protection, defence of the West.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160931	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020160933	Well, I don't want to be led by the United States. I want equal cooperation with the United States. If they want it, I'm fine with it. But the thing about guiding and determining and governing is that which is unspeakable in that context. And that is also the case in NATO when you dictate how much you need for the military. And I guess we're all interested in having as few weapons as possible and as much money as possible for the welfare and for creating a good life for our people. Otherwise, I think you are a cynical politician and that is why I think this is an important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020161003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020161005	It is one hundred percent an extremely important debate, and you have to keep it at as low a level as possible. But sometimes it is simply necessary to do so, regardless of who is in charge. Well, the Western world is united, and if it doesn't, it'll fall apart tomorrow. Well, if there was no defense, it went wrong tomorrow. When Russia can just take the Crimean Peninsula with a fingertips, I suppose they can also take Gotland. If we do not defend ourselves, we will be overrun by a force that is reasonably aggressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020161038	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020161053	First of all, thank you to the President for taking my shift in the chair. And thank you very much to the Secretary of State for allowing us to talk about the Arctic. Actually, I'm gonna give Mr. Knox a hand. Sjúrður Skaale is quite right in saying that these Arctic debates bind many of the debate here in the Danish Parliament together. We must have a debate on the Nordic defence afterward, which is also very much about the Arctic. This year's work around the Arctic has, of course, stood a lot in the sign of the corona. I read the Ombudsman's reports on how the Nordic countries have managed and how they have managed in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is the case that in the Faroe Islands a tight containment strategy and a great success on the test capacity have been successful. It is the case that everyone has been offered tests free of charge without referral from a doctor, and you have managed to get a quick detection of the infection. In Greenland, not so many people have been affected by corona, yet it is the case that they have been affected financially. In the Faroe Islands, it has been thought that economic progress could be achieved by 2020, because you have been in good growth and the same is the case in Greenland. Unfortunately, however, it has turned into a decline. Fortunately, it looks as if we are getting positive growth again in 2021. It is the case that the corona affects tourism, transport and fisheries in particular. This applies both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. That is why we also see negative growth. It is also the case that our work in the Nordic and Arctic countries has been hit quite hard. I am very, very sorry that the first meeting we should have had in Ilulissat on Arctic strategy was cancelled this summer. Then we had an electronic meeting. It's okay, but it's not quite the same way as if you could meet physically. Meetings of the Arctic Council have also been cancelled or held virtually, and this is, of course, a solution that can be used, but not very appropriate. I also very much agree when talking about an economically peaceful and sustainable way of having the Arctic. It is clear that this is what we are working very hard for. There is still increasing interest in the Arctic. Great power rivalry is on everyone's lips. It is the case that the Arctic fills more on the major political agenda, especially when security policy has increased interest. We see in the Social Democracy an even closer cooperation in the Kingdom Community between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but also between the United States and the Kingdom Community. Cooperation should be based on trust and mutual respect. When there is an increasing interest in Greenland as there is, a lot of people have said something about it because you have increasing interest in many places from outside the world. Disagreements and conflicts originating in other parts of the world are expressed in the Arctic. The Arctic States increase their military presence in the region, including with sovereignty enforcement and oversight tasks and civilian tasks such as: rescue operations. Russia, as we have heard, is in particular developing and consolidating military capabilities in their Arctic regions. In May 2020, the United States and the United Kingdom participated in a joint exercise in the Barents Sea, and China calls itself, yes, as Mr. Søren Espersen said, now for a near-Arctic state and starts building icebreakers. So there is very, very much interest in the area around the Arctic. Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland welcome the strengthened American commitment to the Arctic and the North Atlantic. After all, the United States is the Kingdom's closest ally and, together with NATO membership, is the foundation for our security. This is also true in the Arctic, and it is positive that the United States has opened a consulate in Nuuk. Like many of the rapporteurs here, I have spoken to the new consul, Sung Choi, and I think it has been a positive experience. I think it's nice to have a consulate set up in Nuuk. I also think we should see the positive thing about our ministers, both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland and Denmark, having a much more equal and up-to-date approach to the way we interact with each other. For the first time in the history of our government, ministers have been involved, as they are not quite called in Greenlandic, but those responsible for foreign affairs, for example. visited Pompeo in the United States and again at the return visit this summer when a meeting on the Arctic was held in Denmark with the American Foreign Minister. I think they are the guarantors of better and closer cooperation. That is what we must have in the future in the Arctic. That is what leads us to work in a more equal way, and I would like to commend the Minister for that. I think that's really, really good. That is the only way forward: when we talk about it together. Then there is a lot about the Arctic strategy. We need a new long-term Arctic strategy, and we need to get it started by 2021 and by 2030. I do not know if it will be possible to finish until the beginning of 2021, but overall, the Kingdom and the other Arctic states' low-voltage objectives have been further challenged in recent years. A great deal has been said about this in this Chamber today. But we need to be proactive and realistic about the new geostrategic reality and the challenges it brings. Then Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson about the research ship. In the Social Democratic Party we see the need for a research ship, and I am sure that Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson knows that negotiations are also under way right now in the Ministry of Research. I think it is important to say that there is a demand that, after 2023, Denmark also has access to a marine research ship to support the work on fishing stocks and research in Arctic waters. Research is clearly described in this report, and it is also important that we use research to know how things are developing, and I agree that we need to have the capacity to solve these research tasks in the Arctic. So it is the case that on 8 September the Minister for Education and Research presented a technical basis for decision to the research rapporteurs, and the consideration of a new research ship will enter into negotiations which have begun. Otherwise, I will refer you to the Minister for Research. Actually, she's the one who should answer the questions about this. But once Dana's done, you discuss a new solution. Otherwise, it is also the case that we have talked about many other things. It's, like, sir. Sjúrður Skaale says as if the debate on the Arctic is getting longer and longer. When we talk about the Arctic, we cannot help but talk about climate change. The Arctic is one of the most climate-vulnerable areas on the planet. Temperatures are rising faster there than anywhere else, two or three times faster and it's a challenge, and it's also worrying. But at the same time, the report says that this warming can then be used for some positive things, for example. This whole thing about exporting water and ice into the world. It is absurd to think that you can move icebergs and then use the water elsewhere in the world, but it is actually a reality. At the same time, you can also have other business adventures, and we have seen that some of the fish that are in North Greenland go further south. So that is worrying, and we need to do something about climate change, that is clear. But I also see a new way of doing business in the Arctic regions. Then it is also important, as the report says, to have good Internet connections, because it is extremely important for Arctic regions to be able to run businesses if you have good Internet connections. But as we have discussed many times and especially with the Faroe Islands, the issue of 5G is vulnerable, and especially when it comes to protecting critical infrastructure, it is something that we should look at with great seriousness. Our Prime Minister has said that we need a 5G provider that shares the same values as the Danish ones. I fully agree with her on this, and that is also what we will be working for in the future. Because the cybert rush is very high, and we therefore need very, very close cooperation across the Kingdom community in order to deal with the threat that exists. The government has a good dialogue with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland on the challenges, and there is agreement on the need to secure our critical telecommunications infrastructure in relation to 5G. Otherwise, I am very pleased to see that there is a young perspective in the Arctic strategy this year. At least that's something that Mr. Bertel Haarder and I are talking about when we are going to have the presidency in the Nordic Council after New Year: that it is extremely important to involve the young people. It has also been said by our North Atlantic friends that this is extremely important. Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam said that perhaps not so much attention should be paid to how many people fail out of the systems, but how many people implement the systems, and that is very good. What is also stated in this report is that there is an innovation competition for young people in the Arctic, where the winners are scheduled to be found this year. We need to have better training opportunities. I think it is extremely important to invest in young people. It is the young people who have to carry on the Arctic in the Arctic, which is why we must of course attach great importance to sending them off well. And I would very much like to do that with this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162138	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162144	Thanks for the speech. On the part of the IA, we would like to acknowledge that Greenland is more involved when there are meetings with international partners, for example. The United States, and we hope, of course, that this will also be a good practice, we need to move forward. There are several rapporteurs who have expressed a desire in the debate that we should have a common forum where all the elected representatives in Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark meet with the government and discuss the future of the Kingdom Community annually, and I think it would be interesting to hear what the Social Democrats say about that idea, because that is certainly something we support from the IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162223	I don't know if you need any more formal forums. It is the case that we have many opportunities to meet in this Chamber. We do so many times in question debates, and I also know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken up an old tradition of taking part in questions on foreign affairs with the Government of Greenland, and perhaps with the Faroese Government too, I am not fully aware of that. But dialogue is important, and I think we should promote it in all possible ways. I do not know whether we should have a new formal forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162300	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162302	It can be said that what is not in this Chamber is the Greenland Parliament, the elected representatives of Greenland, in addition to those of us who have been elected to the Folketing. And, of course, this also applies to those from the Latting in the Faroe Islands. So I just think that listening to each other, even on a more continuous basis, would really bring added value. In relation to climate change, you cannot disagree with what the rapporteur says, but when we talk about climate and Greenland, I also miss some more initiatives. It is in fact at home in Greenland, the initiative must be taken, it is a reclaimed area, but at least there is great concern from the IA that climate does not fill anything anymore. Was there anything you could work together on, in other words, in relation to climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162350	One of the things we will be discussing in the next debate on the statement is the defence, and there we have made a green defence. I think, of course, that in all possible ways in all our legislation, both in relation to the repatriated areas that Greenland and the Faroe Islands themselves manage, but also in relation to the non-removed areas that we have in the Arctic, we must think about a green agenda in all respects. In fact, every time we make changes or new laws, it should say that there must be a green perspective in the Arctic and in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162426	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162430	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to know what initiatives the rapporteur thinks can be taken to further strengthen growth and development in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. After all, it is a great desire on the part of Greenland to become self-sustaining over time, and what opportunities does the rapporteur see for us in Denmark to help overcome obstacles or create new opportunities for the Greenland economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162456	So, I think it is important that the framework for Greenlandic society is set by the Greenlanders in the repatriated areas, but then the Danes or the Folketing should help to set a framework for some things that are not repatriated, and there you can of course continue to work on things. However, in the field of trade, it is far down the road that North Atlantics have to take responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162525	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162527	There are, for example: investment at airports, where we have, of course, worked together. As Mr. Edmund Joensen mentioned, there is later a very big task because of the geography in Greenland, where there may be a need for some cooperation on the road to being completely self-borne. Following on from the airports, is there not any thought in the Social Democratic Party that more could be done? It was also about the Growth Fund, about that cooperation, about trade agreements, border barriers and other things. Is there not something where the rapporteur thinks that we can push or help further if there is a desire for it from Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162602	After all, I think that the dialogue has become much, much better in recent years, much more equal and much more appreciative. I also think that we have shown here on the Danish side that we want Greenland, when we have invested many billions at airports. I am very, very proud and glad that it is we who are going to help the Greenlanders with it. It is clear that we must have projects in the future, but they are also billions of projects, and of course I will not stand by and promise them here. But I do think that dialogue is the first way forward to create growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162636	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162638	Thank you. In fact, I believe that the rapporteur has misunderstood the discussion about a new parliamentary institution. The rapporteur referred to the fact that we have plenty of discussions here. Yes, but it's among 179 members of parliament. But what was the idea, as I have understood it, and as I myself think it should be, is that there are representatives from the Latting, from the Landsting and from the Danish Parliament meeting in a new parliamentary forum, which therefore has nothing to do with the discussion we have here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162717	I actually understood that, but I'm not sure I think that's the way we should go. Well, I think you have to be careful with making new forums all the time. You can ask the Secretary of State; he may have a different view of it. I think we have a lot of good opportunities in the system that we now have: we have a Greenland Committee, we have a Faroese Committee, we have the Foreign Policy Name, we have the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have the Nordic Council. We have a lot of opportunities to have dialogue with these people, and so do we. We travel there a lot when we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162752	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162753	But we do not have a direct parliamentary institution. If we are to meet our Greenlandic and Faroese colleagues, we need to go to the Nordic Council to find out, and I think that seems a little backwards. But I will ask the Foreign Minister afterwards; I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162815	Well, I'd be happy to discuss it. I think we have enough fora, but if there is a majority in favour of it, then of course that is the way it is. I think that dialogue is the most important thing. Whatever forums it is in, it is about having a close and appreciative dialogue throughout the Arctic, across the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162835	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020162844	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for a very good and constructive debate today, I think. It confirms the broad political support for the Arctic as a major foreign policy priority. I'm glad we agree on that. No one doubts that Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands have core interests at stake, which must be ensured as best as possible. The statement is central because it describes the international cooperation that takes place daily in the Arctic, and not least Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands' overall commitment to the cooperation across the many possibilities. At the same time, it is the last statement that several speakers made during the current Arctic strategy for 2011 to 2020. I would also like to look forward here and mention the work on preparing Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Greenland and the Faroe Islands' new Arctic strategy, which should be in place at the beginning of 2021. It is important that the Kingdom acts on the basis of a common Arctic strategy, a common platform for our international Arctic work. The current strategy has demonstrated its strength by being a common frame of reference for the authorities, so that you can work with the Arctic across the whole kingdom. At the same time, it has ensured coherence and focus on the political approach, not least in relation to the Arctic Council, which is, of course, part of a key architecture in relation to the binding Arctic cooperation. Work on formulating a new strategy is in full swing throughout the Kingdom community. This is an inclusive process, I would also like to say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, where relevant actors are involved in the work of defining the visions and priorities that will shape the next 10 years of international engagement by Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese. In this context, I would like to highlight the parliamentarians' meeting which took place in June with the virtual participation of all three parliaments. It was a historic meeting in which the three parliaments for the first time jointly discussed developments in the Arctic and recorded the future strategy. I hope that the Members of Parliament will take on board this tradition. I can also hear that there is a great deal of appetite for this and I am glad that it looks as if the three parliaments will be able to discuss strategy again in the Arctic in a few weeks' time. It'll also be virtually due to the covid-19 situation we're in. In any case, I think it is important that we do so. I agree with the many comments made by the House today. As last year, the discussion has also focused very much on the significant developments taking place in the Arctic as a result of the new security policy dynamic, which challenges the Kingdom's and the other Arctic states' low-voltage objectives. We must remember that the developments we have seen in the Arctic in recent years are mainly due to climate change. They present quite specific challenges both globally and especially in the Arctic due to greater average temperature increases right here. At the same time, new economic opportunities are also being created, and they must of course benefit the Arctic population, as several people have also mentioned. There is no more doubt that the Arctic region is of ever increasing geopolitical importance to both the United States, Russia and China, and geopolitics is a basic condition, including in the Arctic today. Russia is making a significant expansion and consolidation of its military capacity along the Arctic coast. China is thinking long-term and showing increasing strategic interest in the Arctic. The United States has strengthened its civil commitment to Greenland and its military commitment to the Arctic and the North Atlantic. In the Arctic, Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands must continue to pursue our common democratic values such as dialogue, trust, equality and rule-based cooperation; values that characterise our own societies. When international values come under pressure, there is, in fact, an even greater need for us to show a different way in our community. As an Arctic coastal state and a member of the Arctic Council, the Kingdom has an important role to play in influencing developments. The desire for peace and low-voltage will continue to be an essential priority for the Kingdom's Arctic policy. We simply cannot afford anything else. It is a personal priority for me that we create an up-to-date and inclusive kingdom community based on equal value, on respect, trust and mutual involvement, and here the new Arctic Strategy is an extremely important step. In this context, we must not forget that the Arctic region is much more than a security policy. After all, our objective remains to create a prosperous and sustainable future for the Arctic. We must work hard to develop the region and make sustainable use of the new economic opportunities that arise. Next year, a ministerial meeting will be held in the Arctic Council when the Presidency is transferred from Iceland to Russia. The Arctic Council turns 25 in 2021. I hope that next year's ministerial meeting will be well marked. Despite the fact that security policy is specifically excluded from the Arctic Council's mandate, as you know, cooperation helps to support the objective of low-voltage by providing the Arctic states with a common framework and a forum for dialogue and cooperation • and this is so much needed. I would like to stress that we are working within the Kingdom Community and the government to strengthen the efforts in the Arctic, which is very important to us. I look forward to the governments of Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the coming months putting a final hand in the work on the new Arctic strategy, not least in dialogue with our parliaments. That is a very important part of it. Then there are several rapporteurs, and I would like to comment on that which has raised various issues in the debate. First, to sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson in relation to the development of business in a sustainable way.• The climate and environment were also mentioned by the Left as an important, important priority: I fully agree. It should of course be borne in mind that what we are talking about here are reclaimed areas, so there are very many priorities which the Greenlandic and Faroese Governments have and which we must help them to achieve in practice. One of the things I have done in concrete terms is, for example: to say to the other parts of the community: Listen, it is important when we make business promotions, as we do, for example. uses our Trade Council to ensure that we get even more and better involved, for example. Greenlandic and Faroese companies and interests in the world. One of the things we can see is that we have also given priority to increasing our business promotion and our business promotion and export promotion collaborations in the light of the covid-19. And that's where we invited Greenland and the Faroe Islands all the way. Besides the fact that they even have their own representations in some places, it is important that they are with the rest of us when we do those things. I think that is a concrete way of doing that. I know how much wish is both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands to open up to the outside world, trade more with the outside world, create new trade routes, both in North America and in the rest of the world. We must support governments in this and, of course, use the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our apparatus to help with it. So I very much agree with that. In relation to the discussion, which is also a debate, I believe that Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned it, i.e. whether to choose between Denmark and the United States.I think we have a kingdom community that is unique in the world. It can be difficult to understand when you come from outside, and it can also be difficult for many Danes and others in the Danish community to understand what it is all about. I think we all need to be better at explaining how important our kingdom is and how unique it is. But I also think it is important to say that together we have an interest in strengthening our cooperation, including in the civil, commercial field with the United States and North America and Canada etc. When you look at it, it's like Mr. Kim. Søren Espersen mentioned, interestingly, that the trade routes sometimes have to around Denmark before they come to North America. Let's strengthen this, let's help each other with that. So it's not a either-or; it's a boat-and. The United States is the kingdom's most important security allies, and so it will continue to be if it is up to this government. That is why we must also extend our cooperation with the Americans, of course in an equal and respectful manner, because we have a common interest in it. I just want to make that clear. I don't have an infinite amount of time, so I'll try to answer some of the questions they asked, or you'll have to come back with follow-up questions. Several things were mentioned, for example. from Conservatives in relation to the honorary consul that Russia has asked to have in Greenland. It can be said that this is the kind of thing we have also agreed to in consultation, it is the procedure with the Greenland Government before we say yes to it. By the way, honorary consuls are something you have for a number of countries. I do not have the list here, but at least I know that in Greenland it is about the Czech Republic, Benelux, Germany, Finland and Norway. Iceland has a regular consulate, and the United States has opened a consulate. So there are plenty of countries that have either honorary consuls, who are not sent diplomats, but are some who have among other things. the role of being able to issue a passport if you lose it etc. or have other functions. There has also been an honorary consul from Russia in the Faroe Islands for a number of years, so that is perfectly normal. It was also asked whether we could then ask for one, for example. in Murmansk. On the Danish side, we also have honorary consuls elsewhere in Russia. You can do that. There is such a principle of reciprocity. If we say yes to the appointment of an honorary consul, then we also expect the country to be allowed to give us permission if we ask for the opposite. So it's perfectly normal. Now it's probably hard to find someone in Murmansk who wants to be Danish honorary consul, so at the moment we use the Norwegian. Norway has a regular consulate, and then we use it. So that way we can also help each other. And I'm looking at sir. Bertel Haarder, because we know that Nordic co-operation is also important. So it's just to say that this is a perfectly normal practice, and there may be consular cases where it's an advantage to have an honorary consul somewhere in the world. We know about this too from the Danish side. So I think it might be demystified that way. In conclusion, as I said, I am looking forward to the work on the new strategy, and I would like to stress that Mr. Christian Juhl that we have done the things that we would like to do, for example with regard to this involvement despite corona. in relation to the involvement of the research environment. We have had consultations with researchers, because we have a huge Arctic research tradition that we must strengthen if it is up to me and the government. We have had consultations with the business community, which will help to develop the entire Arctic area, and we have, of course, had parliamentarians' hearings. We also have, for example. The government has helped to establish an innovation competition with young people. How can you imagine that young people will start new businesses in the Arctic region? In other words, stimulate entrepreneurship and vision about how to develop the Arctic. I believe that we are ahead of some very, very exciting years in which, in the kingdom's three parts, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, we can develop the Arctic cooperation to hopefully new heights. We can influence it, and we need to be proactive. It's my attitude and that of the government to this. We must do this, knowing that geopolitical and security policy changes are taking place throughout the world, which also characterises the Arctic, but in Denmark we must do what we can. That is also why I myself invited both my Greenlandic and my Faroese colleague to join me as the first government ever to the meeting I had with Pompeo, where we had a separate meeting around the Arctic with my colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, all four of us. And I think it is very important to do so, as I did in November last year with my Greenlandic colleague, Ane Lone Bagger from Naalakersuisut, over at the meeting of the US Secretary of State, Pompeo. It's important. We must show mutual respect, trust, involvement. If we stand together in relation to the Arctic in the Kingdom, I also believe that we will have a much stronger common voice on the values I mentioned before, among others. binding cooperation. Human rights were mentioned by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen as an example of something where we also stand together. So I think it is really important that we continue. I thank you for a real, exciting debate, an inspiring debate with many good ideas that we would like to take further, including in the future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164205	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164211	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank you for the answer to my question. That was really nice. There is one thing I would like the Secretary of State to clarify a little. And it is in relation to all this talk about trade agreements, i.e. whether the Foreign Minister does not agree that there is also a security policy interest for Denmark in helping Greenland and the Faroe Islands to access some more markets. And if so, what is the Foreign Minister going to do, or is he going to do, for example? helping the Faroe Islands to gain access to the European Union and help with other trade agreements that make it both able to increase prosperity, but maybe also increase security a little for the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164252	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the Government fully supports the Faroese desire for closer relations with the EU, including the adaptation of the trade agreement. I am therefore pleased that in July the Prime Minister did indeed send a letter to President von der Leyen in which she expressed the government's full support for the Faroese wishes and invited the Commission to enter into a dialogue with the Faroe Islands on the adaptation of the trade agreement. The further work will then take place in a close dialogue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the EU representation in Brussels and the national government in Tórshavn. It's really important that we have this close cooperation, so I fully agree. With regard to the foreign policy aspects: yes, I believe that binding agreements, trade agreements, and also binding rules, such as those we have here. In the WTO, it is also what creates a more peaceful world, in addition to providing the basis for the growth and prosperity that we must all live well on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164347	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164349	Thank you. As a follow-up, I might as well like the Minister for Foreign Affairs' assessment of the chances of actually getting this trade agreement with the European Union through for the Faroe Islands and where we are standing right now. Is there anything new since the letter, or have we heard nothing back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164406	That letter was from July, and I know that there is a process going on. I cannot say specifically how far we are, but there should be no doubt that we in the Danish Government are working everything we can. It is also an expression of this when the Prime Minister sends a letter to the President of the Commission, in other words, that we give this a very high priority. I know how important it is for the Faroe Islands to update and adapt the trade agreement. I am grateful for the question and it is also something that we will be pursuing in the future. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164438	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164441	Thank you. The Minister should not be so sorry to repeat what we agree on. It is always a good thing, and if the Minister is in doubt that I think it is good to involve people, then he has misunderstood me, and I would like to say that this is a very good idea. However, the point I made was that some strategies organise the Minister and hear people. I did, too, when I raised my children or tried to form them, as it is said in modern Danish: Then they were allowed to say their opinion, but I was the one who decided how it was all going to end. Elsewhere, we sit and discuss it among parliamentarians and only beat the nails when the parliamentarians agree on it. This means that the decision-making power has been delegated to the members of the parliaments, in this case to them in the three countries, and I think this could be a refreshing innovation in an area where we are all hopefully equally wise or equally stupid. I know that the Minister has many good advisers, but that is what I thought could be a new thinking, given that a social democratic government has been added. I would like to call on the Minister to reflect on that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164600	I hope that Mr. Christian Juhl heard me as someone who cares a lot about the involvement of all stakeholders and, of course, in particular parliamentarians both in the Faroe Islands, Greenland and in Denmark, and that is what we do from the government. So what we are talking about here is the Kingdom's international Arctic strategy, which is a strategy agreed by the three governments and will then be presented after a very long and inclusive process. I would say that without knowing the details of how to do it before 2011 • that this process is in any case set out to be very engaging, and that is what we are standing at. It is then also a strategy that will be a living strategy; it will be a strategy that will have to be adapted on a regular basis. There is, of course, a dynamic development in the Arctic region, and it is a strategy that I think we will have ample opportunity to discuss all aspects of, both in the Folketing and in the parliaments of the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and I think that should be the case. But it is a strategy that the three governments will present here at the beginning of next year. And yes, of course we're listening, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164709	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164711	Yes, yes, and of course to everyone else, but you listen. It is not we who are going to vote on it; I saw a naive belief in that. But to another area: it has been called naive to believe that disarmament can be achieved in the world we now have, and that is why I should like to ask about it. It is now many years since the Social Democrats' parole was: Break the saber! Break the crown! But Anker Jørgensen visited us in Silkeborg in 1983, and then he was active for a campaign for a nuclear-free Nordic region, and we supported it. He was also active in the efforts that succeeded, namely the removal of the SS-20 atom rockets on the east side and the similar Western rockets. Was it naive for Anker Jørgensen to engage in a disarmament campaign, and would it be naive for the present government to interfere in such a one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164809	No, I certainly don't see Anker Jørgensen as someone who was naive. However, what I think is important to say is that we share the concern if that is what the rapporteur is asking about the world we are looking at, where arms control treaties and disarmament treaties are increasingly falling to the ground. It's a concern that I and the government share. That is why we are also working with our allies to strengthen arms control, non-proliferation, for example. In the case of nuclear weapons, too. This is an area in which I think we need to move further forward in that discussion, because otherwise, as I said, we will have a world marked by the absence of rules and then we will know what happens: it will be the great powers that do not respect the values we stand for, which will then dominate. And we don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164859	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164910	The debate is open and we are giving the floor to the first rapporteur, and that is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020164925	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the report on Nordic defence cooperation. Nordic defence cooperation reflects the unique cooperation we have in the Nordic countries. We have different starting points, angles and interests in the countries and autonomous areas, particularly in relation to NATO and the European Union. Despite this, we are able in a great many ways to stand together, but there is always room for improvement, and fortunately for that, because then we will not be standing still, but are on the move and can continue to work forward. I believe that we in the Nordic countries can do much more together than we can individually. The Danish defence is, as we know, primarily engaged in NATO. It is Sweden, for example. not, and that is why we are now seeing a large increase in the Swedish defence budget of as much as 40%, and that is because of the threat from Russia. This has been explained in the previous debate on the statement. Developments in the world mean that we should complement NATO with closer Nordic defence cooperation. We are privileged in many ways because we live in a part of the world that is not marked by war and strife, but at the same time we are experiencing the consequences of a more complex world with many conflicts and hot spots right now. And that is why we have also experienced threats that have come very close and we are in a situation of a threat picture that does not have an unambiguous size. At the same time, a global pandemic has hit our everyday lives and mobility, and unfortunately we have seen a great deal of this in the Nordic countries in the last six months. It has also influenced Nordic co-operation in both good and evil. When the crisis hits us, I think it is important that we cooperate with someone who is similar to us and who has social models similar to ours, and we have therefore seen that here during the pandemic. The heads of emergency services have, for example: met, first virtually every week to talk about actions, and most recently they met every four weeks. It is, I think, a very special year in Nordic defence cooperation, because it is the case that we have two presidencies: our Minister for Defence is both President of the North-West Defence Cooperation and of the Haga Cooperation. We have the Chairs of NORDEFCO and Haga cooperation until New Year, after which they will be taken over by Finland. We have highlighted three things in our Presidency. The first is cybersecurity. I think it is extremely important that we take a look at this cybersecurity issue I myself am a cybersecurity rapporteur, and I think it is extremely important that we share knowledge across countries, that we have closer cooperation in a complex area, and that we exchange experiences and develop competences. It is the case that very many of our businesses in the Nordic region are being attacked because their cybersecurity is not so high, and it is also the case that we have not got so much cooperation started on it, because you are really afraid of what happens if you gossip about it. It is also the case that in the Nordic countries we have a vision that we must be the most sustainable and most integrated region in the world. It is the Council of Ministers that has set it, and I think it is a very important and very good vision. That is why the Secretary of Defense has also highlighted the need for a green defence. All countries have a vision that CO2 In addition, a large part of our discussion here is about the Arctic. We have been talking about the Arctic for several hours now, and of course I would say that we are still away for the Ilulissat Declaration; we hope for peace and low-voltage in the Arctic region. There is much more interest in the Arctic, and that requires much more attention, and we have been talking about this in the last few hours. But I think it is important that we strengthen the defence policy and military dialogue, and also that we share more knowledge here. That is why I also know that security in the Arctic is one of the most important things on the agenda of the Secretary of Defense. As I also said in the previous statement debate, the United States is our closest ally. We need to strengthen Nordic-transatlantic relations, and then we need to cooperate much more in conflict and in crisis. A new crisis consultation mechanism has also been created, and it has been set in motion three times once when the Al-Asad base was attacked, and twice here during the pandemic. So I think it's really good that we put this mechanism in place. I think it's a good thing we're working together on these things. We also need to strengthen the material sector, we need to work together on the Nordic defence industry, and it is also the case that a joint Nordic uniform purchase is under way. I think that is also extremely important, i.e. that you have some combat uniforms that are the same, because we know that, for example, we do. in Iraq benefit from each other, especially the Danes and the Norwegians, and in Mali they replace each other with transport aircraft. This is an important step on the way to closer cooperation, I think, if one chooses "You haven't yet chosen a common Nordic uniform purchase." I think that in the Nordic countries we should do much, much more from making some purchases, buying some things together, which can free up resources for other tasks. One example may be that we can do some very low-practical things together. At least it can be made stronger. This debate is also about preparedness, and our preparedness in all countries is in a positive development. I have been an emergency rapporteur for many years. I'm not anymore, but compared to this one with the robust citizen in Denmark, it's also a Nordic vision that we need to have robust citizens across the Nordic region. As I said, the Haga cooperation has a Danish Presidency this year. Here too we have talked about cybersecurity, and especially here during the covid-19, where we have not been able to travel back and forth, it is extremely important that we talk about cybersecurity, misinformation and impact campaigns. We know that all countries are under attack, and it is therefore very, very important that some knowledge is shared in this area. We also need better civil-military cooperation, civilian support for military operations and military support during civil crises. I think that is something that should be discussed, and I also know that our emergency managers do so very, very often and often. Our emergency cooperation has resulted in a Copenhagen Declaration, which is about strong and strengthened preparedness and rescue cooperation. We know that there are going to be worse natural disasters. We also know that there will be man-made disasters, and that, of course, is something that needs to be worked out in the Copenhagen Declaration for 2020. And it has to be seen in the light of the fact that climate change and more extreme weather are one of the things that has made us, among other things. have sent emergency personnel from Denmark to Sweden to put out fires, and that we can also expect help from the other way. I think this cooperation is close to the citizen, and that is why I think it is really, really good that we have it put in a more firm framework. The last thing in the statement here is about the Nordic Home Guard. We have a good and strong cooperation between the Nordic Home Guards. This is how we have a long tradition of being able to work together. We have had training together and we have also had exchanges, and I think it is extremely important to optimise the use of the resources available in the Nordic countries, including in the field of home protection. Nordic co-operation is clearly something special, and now I'm looking down on Mr. Bertel Haarder. That's how we're gonna split the presidency next year. I look forward very much to the Nordic Council, including in the field of defence. We both have an interest in this, and that is why I think it is something very special to be in the presidency. Because Nordic cooperation is really something special. I'm a Northist all the way into the heart coal. We share values and we share models of society, so I think that this cooperation, whether it is military or civil, or whether it is professional, is something that we must promote in all the respects we can. The Danish Presidency, which Mrs Trine Bramsen has been President of the last year now, almost, has helped to strengthen and develop an already good cooperation on Nordic defence. Thank you so much for that to the Secretary of Defense. Thank you for the floor in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020165913	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, just gets the chance to make a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020165924	It's so boring if there's only one speaker in this hall, I think. I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to speak to the Nordicist Mrs Annette Lind. Both the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense call the United States our closest allies, and it is clear that we are in an alliance with them. However, I do not understand why they should continue to be called our closest allies when they repeatedly abolish and break the international agreements that we are all defending so strongly, so did the Foreign Minister here ten minutes ago, so that it was so important that we stick to the international agreements and keep closing the box to the important UN activities. How can they be our closest ally when it comes to such activities? The United States is starting to look like a banana state. Should we be content with someone like our closest ally?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170019	There will soon be elections to the American Parliament, and I very much hope that there will be change on that post; there can be no doubt about that. The United States is, in my opinion, the closest ally. I think that when the United States steps side by side, for example. by stepping out of the nuclear agreement with Iran, we must go along with other countries and rebel against the things that are being changed and against the United States leaving. So I think that Denmark is well ahead in the shoes when we see that the United States is sidelined, but I do not think there is any doubt whatsoever that they are and should be our closest allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170104	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170105	Thank you. I now think that there are more allies than the United States, for example. the Nordic countries. That's why I asked the Northist what she thought of this. For the Nordic countries, a good and important alternative to the great powers and to the rivalry that is taking place in the Arctic, and I believe that the Nordic countries can actually play the role of an alternative superpower on very many issues and choose a completely different path than the traditional great powers will do where they choose the weapons rather than the dialogue. And that is why I appeal to us to look at that great power instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170144	In other words, I understood what the rapporteur said earlier, but it is the case that we do not have exactly the same starting point in relation to what we are discussing today: precisely the defence aspect. After all, some are members of NATO and others are not members of NATO. Because we have one's welfare society, because we have one's way of thinking, and because we have one's solutions, etc., I see the Nordic countries as the closest to many things. But in the field of defence, they cannot be the very nearest, in my opinion, among other things. because Sweden is not part of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170224	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Bertel Haarder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020170237	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for Defence for her statement and thank you to Mrs Annette Lind for her speech. I look forward to working together in the Nordic presidency. From a superficial point of view, it looks chaotic when you look at the Nordic defence cooperation: three countries are part of NATO and three countries are part of the EU, but only Denmark is with both places and, on the other hand, Denmark is not part of the EU's defence dimension. It looks chaotic, but what needs to be established with seven-inch nails is that these different alliances do not in any way stand in the way of Nordic defence cooperation. One can ask in NATO and one can ask in the United States, and no one has any objection to the Nordic countries cooperating and strengthening their defence through cooperation. It strengthens NATO's northern flank, and reinforced Nordic cooperation can only help to mitigate the risk of major power rivalry and armaments in the Arctic. We must not have military vacuums that can tempt Putin and others. That is why it is so important for the Nordic countries themselves to keep watch. After all, Sweden's Minister for Defence, Peter Hultqvist, has justified the strong Swedish armament by the fact that Putin has unfortunately shown a willingness to use force. The Baltic Sea, where Denmark is situated at the mouth, has been the subject of a huge Russian exercise, and the Russians are also very interested in the so-called GIUK Gap between Greenland, Iceland and the UK, i.e. Great Britain. This waters, which together with the Baltic Sea are the exit routes of the Russian fleet. We must work so hard for low-voltage and maintain the tradition of low-voltage in Arctic cooperation. But we shouldn't be naive, and I think that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale said so well here from the platform during the previous debate, so I do not need to repeat it. After all, there is every reason to rejoice that NORDEFCO has been created and strengthened and expanded, and I sincerely hope that the Minister for Defence will take the lead in demonstrating that Denmark is a very active participant. After all, we are a little behind: Sweden is increasing the defence budget by 40%. and doubles the standing force, Norway has bought four submarines and has reopened a submarine base at Tromsø, and Finland has always had the opportunity of 200,000 men under arms. They do not talk about that much, but it is a fact, and it says a little about the fact that in our Nordic brother countries we are very aware that we ourselves have to keep watch over our own territories. That is also why we received the Stoltenberg report some ten years ago with the 13 points that have been largely implemented and that is also why a broad majority in the Nordic Council, including the Socialists, thinks we should have a Stoltenberg II report. We didn't get that in this round, and I still think it's a shortcoming. But instead we got the Bjarnason report, which I read on Friday with great interest. It was much more exciting than I had expected, and it was particularly about the cyber-threat, about the need for joint analyses, about the need for increased cyber-awareness. Because what it's all about when it comes to cyber threats is getting to know when you're exposed to them. He also talks about Nordic public-private clusters, as it says, in other words cooperation between countries and cooperation between the public and private sectors in this regard. But then I come to a critical point. What is the reason why Denmark is not part of the brand new trilateral declaration of intent between Norway, Sweden and Finland? It has been signed as late as September 2020. Why isn't Denmark here? It cannot be, of course, because the Nordkalott has been mentioned, because the Nordkalott is only mentioned as an example, and it is explicitly mentioned that cooperation is needed to ensure that, in the event that countries choose to cooperate in a crisis situation, they have to have what is called interoperability in a fine word, in other words that they can cooperate easily and painlessly. It is difficult to understand that Denmark is not part of this, and as far as I can see, the ink on that agreement is not yet dry. I am sure that Denmark will be able to join, and I would like to ask the Minister for Defence if she will not consider it. Emergency aid is also included in the statement. I was present at the meeting of the Nordic Emergency Response Managers at the Kastellet, where the so-called Copenhagen Declaration was adopted. Mrs Annette Lind has already adopted it, and the same heads of emergency have since followed up that statement, and it is of course a question of having compatible equipment again, of sharing tactics and procedures and of being able to support each other in the event of crises. After all, there is something at European level called the RescEU, namely Rescue and the European Union, and that is excellent. But there is one thing we must remember, and that is that we in the Nordic countries should never wait for Europe to solve the problems for us, simply because it is much easier and faster to work together between the Nordic countries. And once we have done so, there is a great chance that our model of cooperation will also end up being the European Union's. That is why it is so important that we take the lead in all areas with Nordic cooperation, and I would also like the Minister for Defence to comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171047	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171051	Thank you. Sir. Bertel Haarder said a military vacuum could be tempting. Well, it can for both sides. And I would say that a 40-percent armament in Sweden can also be used as an argument by Putin to say to its people: you have to wait on welfare, now we use it on the military, because you can see that they are arming over in Sweden. In this way, political decisions on different sides of a line can be used against each other. There I would like to ask: does Mr. Bertel Haarder really that there is a threat, potential threat from Russia that justifies an armament of the military of 40%.? Russia has a military budget similar to that of Italy. That is what we are facing. Are we not about to shoot gray sparrows with guns to stay in the language of this situation where we see ghosts with each other, instead of reaching out and saying that we want to promote good neighbourly relations and trade and cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171156	I wish I could understand what it is that drives Mr. Christian Juhl to make that recital again and again. Unfortunately, Russia has shown very expansive behaviour in the Baltic Sea and in the North Atlantic. We must do everything possible to preserve the area as a low-voltage area, but we must not be naive, and I hope that we, a very large majority of this House, can agree on that. We must not be naive; we must keep watch where we live and where we are responsible for large rural areas, which we have in the North Atlantic, in the Arctic and in the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171250	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171252	Yeah, well, I'm gonna have to promise that we will, too. We are going both to Afghanistan and Iran and Iraq, and we are even doing so together with the other Nordic friends. If it is to defend our homeland, we have a long debate for the benefit of us. The rapporteur said that there was a Russian exercise in the Baltic Sea. Yes, but there was also a NATO exercise or a Nordic exercise with NATO and European countries, the largest marine military exercise so far at all for many, many years. So I think we ourselves are helping to create a mood of excitement instead of the opposite. When should we try the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171335	I come to think of the public meeting where Russian fighters suddenly came at full speed straight towards Bornholm. After all, it is so obvious to everyone that Russia will show its strength that it will show its power. And I think it was really wise for the Swedes to remilitarize Gotland, which they had demilitarised. How come the Russians didn't respect Gotland's demilitarism? Why would they sail so close? I don't understand, sir. Christian Juhl at that point. We agree on a lot, but not on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171422	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020171441	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the previous speaker, with whom I very much agreed. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is with pleasure that we can now see, also with the statements I forgot to thank the Secretary of Defense • that the Nordic Region is just as quiet year by year militarily moving closer and closer together, and that it is done step by step and without the big fads and without theatrical bowl speeches. It takes place at the practical level with the exchange of ideas and initiatives, which has meant that Nordic officers are constantly in contact with each other, as well as the Nordic Defence Ministers keep in close contact. As far as the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish Home Guards are concerned, the cooperation is unbreakable and confidential. Home Guard managers often meet, and when there is no pandemic, the Nordic Home Guard dialogue and the cooperation and association between officers, commanders and private soldiers thrive. It is reality and not toasts that now bring the North together militarily. It is the reality that means that with the geography we now have, significant military cooperation is needed. It is a question of two things. One is the unresolved situation in the Baltic Sea and the other concerns the future of the Arctic. The establishment of NORDEFCO has been very valuable. It has strengthened the whole of Nordic co-operation, but it has also made it much easier between countries. And where it was necessary to conclude bilateral military cooperation agreements, they did so. In fact, between the NATO countries Denmark and Norway we are as close to each other as we can imagine, and the same is so small in terms of being negotiated between the two neutral countries of Sweden and Finland. There is also a good understanding between Denmark and Sweden as regards the fleets and aircraft forces. If the good development continues, the Nordic countries will be very strong in military terms as such, because the fact is that if you look at the Nordic defence as a whole, it is suddenly a very good military force. Denmark and Norway are preparing for further increases in defence budgets, so that hopefully both the Norwegians and we will soon reach the 2%. of bnp. And as far as Sweden and Finland are concerned, the two countries are heavily armed. As has been mentioned, Sweden has just reopened its military presence on Gotland and is embarking on a general economic boost specifically for the fleet and for the air force. It provides for a doubling of military service from the present 12 000 to 25 000. We have heard about the 40% increase, and that is quite an incredible amount of money: it is 28 billion. kr., we're talking about here. So I would like to ask the Danish Defence Minister: when will there be a message from the Social Democratic Government that Denmark is proposing a significant financial injection to the defence? When does the government intend to meet NATO's two-percent requirements, which Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt signed to comply with? When does the government propose that Denmark fulfil the promise made by the then Social Democratic Prime Minister by its signature? NORDEFCO is fully implementing common solutions and synergies in relation to mutual security challenges, concrete technical and operational agreements, easier or full access to each other's maritime, land and air territory, and radar data sharing. In addition, as the Minister for Defence pointed out, there is a wide range of military areas in particular. capacity development, equipment acquisition, exercises, training, HR, training and joint operations. And notice that all of this is reality. That's what's going on right around our ears. It is the real thing, while a lot of politicians here at home unfortunately use the energy to remove Denmark's EU reservation. I think that's weird. A year and a half ago, a debate began on the vision of NORDEFCO: what was to be achieved and where should it end? And it is clear that with Denmark, Iceland and Norway as members of NATO and with Sweden and Finland as so-called neutral countries, there is at least one thing that is reasonably predictable, namely that none of the five countries are currently ready for a genuine military alliance. After all, the Secretary of Defense also states this in his written statement. But allow me to ask the question, 'Why not?' Why are we five Nordic countries not striving for a military alliance within the framework of NATO? And yes, I know all the explanations why it is not possible: that Sweden and Finland stand where they stand and that Finland in particular does not want to challenge the Russians. Sweden and Finland, as Denmark and Norway, have strong historical ties, and one does nothing militarily without the other being involved. That's the way it is, and it won't change. However, what would have been impossible in the days of the Soviet Union, namely Finland's joining NATO, would, in my view, be a realistic option. And if Finland and Sweden send together an application for membership, Russia will not be able to oppose this. The Russians will certainly protest, yes, but they will have no real opportunity whatsoever to change the state of things. Here's what I think a Nordic military alliance could pave the way. The extensive cooperation that is increasing year by year has not been particularly opposed by Russia, and one might wonder why the two neutral countries form part of a strong community with the three NATO countries. But the fact is that both the Swedish and Finnish defences direct the cannons to the east and not to the west. So perhaps now is the time for us, together with our Nordic colleagues, to rethink the possibility of a genuine Nordic military alliance. The Danish People's Party would very much like to see such an idea unfold, and I can guarantee that my party in such a discussion will be 100%. positive. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for an excellent statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020172142	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then I should actually give the floor to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF, but I cannot see her now. We shall therefore move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020172212	Thanks for that. I'll be happy to fill in their time too. Thank you for your statement, which I have read with quite a lot of interest. I will not spend so much of my short speaking time patting the Minister on his shoulder. The Enhedslisten is a parliamentary basis, but it does not prevent us from making some critical comments about what is not in the statement. However, I would like to start in an area in which I believe that Nordic cooperation has an excellent opportunity, namely emergency and government cooperation. This is an extremely important area of cooperation. Haga cooperation and the others cooperate on social security, forest fires, natural disasters, etc. benefit in everyday life, not only in the event of a crisis. Fortunately, we do not have the many forest fires and the great natural disasters, but we train together, and we have good traditions of being able to use each other in such situations. This is indeed an area in which cooperation can be of benefit to the Nordic countries. Therefore, I would like to tell you a little about what is not in the report, namely that in 2019 the Nordic Council unanimously adopted a strategy on social security, which was drawn up after almost a year of committee work. In a number of areas, the Nordic Council envisages enhanced cooperation against forest fires, climate disasters, storms, floods, cooperation on health capacity, pandemics, police cooperation, peace research and conflict prevention, food and energy supply, etc. etc. That fits very well with what the ministers seem to be talking about. We just think that we should go a few steps further. As usual in the Nordic Council, we sent our recommendations to the governments. They were answered by Denmark's ministers, as in 2020 we are holding the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Those were very defensive answers, yes, I'll call them superficial. Most of them said that yes, it is partially redeemed and so not much more. And as a Danish politician, who is a parliamentary basis for the current government, I was embarrassed by the answers. The disappointment of the Nordic Council Bureau was also great, and a united Bureau asked the working group behind the strategy to formulate detailed questions which have now been sent to the Council of Ministers with a request for separate dialogue with the various ministers. Why have the members of the Council of Ministers not been more keen to listen to the elected representatives of the Nordic Council? Why is that not even mentioned in the statement? So to the more hard core that we have discussed a little under the Arctic item today, namely the defence policy or military, as you might call it. I would like to say that something interesting happened when we received a visit from the United States by Pompeo. I was pleased that the Ministers involved the Foreign Ministers from Greenland and the Faroe Islands in that visit. It showed that we're three units. But the questions after the visit go on: Do we need much more USA? Should the U.S. military expand on Thule Base? Are there any more American nuclear submarines in the Arctic? The Foreign Minister from the United States was here to care for the alliance between Denmark and the important access to Greenland and the Faroe Islands and to the Arctic and to keep China and Russia away. This happens after President Trump tried in vain to buy Greenland, which the Prime Minister called an absurd offer. This happens after the United States has not been interested in the Arctic for years. China and Russia and the United States are in a fierce race for influence in the Arctic, but what do the Nordic countries do? The report on Nordic defence and emergency cooperation addresses some corners of these challenges. But also just some corners. The defense has many tasks both with search and rescue and of course also with the supremacy and supervision of sovereignty. It is important that we maintain a low-voltage target in the Arctic. An important first goal would be to make the Arctic nuclear weapons free. This issue must be on the international agenda, just as demilitarisation of the Arctic should be a strategic objective for the Nordic countries' efforts in international work. Right now, it is Russia in particular, which is militarily present in the Arctic, although according to the Defence Intelligence Service in a defensive form, which is why I do not understand at all the aggressive debate that is currently taking place, that we should also arm ourselves. They set out to defend themselves against others on their own territory. But they are also ready with icebreakers and large ships. China is interested in the Arctic, although they are not an actual Arctic state. They think long-term and rely on research and influence in, among other things. Greenland and the Faroe Islands. U.S. President Trump can't really figure out what he wants with the Arctic. He has some military interests. He has no strategy for the Arctic, and only in the last few years has he really started to take an interest in the area. During the debate on the Arctic statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs called the new great power rivalry a new dynamic in the Arctic. If it is called dynamic, I would say that we look at that word differently. In the statement the Secretary of Defense welcomes the United States into the area and promises increased Danish military presence. I have said this before today, but I do not know how long the government intends to call the United States the closest ally of the Commonwealth. It is a pretty form of ally that we have at the moment, which denounces one international agreement after another and which, moreover, left up to 30 military bases in Greenland without cleaning up after it. I am in favour of a North that joins together as an alternative to the rivalry of great power. That's where we belong more than anywhere else. Our security lies in international disarmament agreements and stronger efforts to ensure that all agreements are respected. Arctic states must respect the Ilulissat Declaration's principle of respect for climate, respect for the people living in the Arctic, peace, dialogue and principles of low-voltage. Our security lies in a Nordic alternative to the rivalry of the great powers, and in that light the statement is interesting, both what is stated in the statement and, in particular, what is not stated in the statement. The Enhedslisten is in favour of us cooperating as a Nordic power on the Arctic in accordance with the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration: respect for the climate, respect for the people living in the Arctic, peace, dialogue and, above all, the principle of low tension. And we have to make sure that the great powers follow these principles. It is no use just saying: Well, they are arming, and then we must do it too. It's a very one-dimensional way of thinking. I would like to remind you that dinosaurs died out many years ago because of too much armor and too little brain. In a helping DIIS report, the statement mentions new security policy dynamics in the Arctic without commenting on the five recommendations presented in the report. What is the position of the Minister and the government on the five recommendations? It might be interesting to know when we are going to discuss it here. Then I go to the peace research and conflict resolution area. I believe that, as Nordic countries, we need to work together to strengthen the capacity for peace and conflict resolution • non-military peace and conflict resolution, to put it a little more directly, not least with our neighbours. Too few resources are being spent on preventing crises and conflicts and on diplomatic work and too many resources on military capabilities. Imagine if only half of the military spending on deadly military hardware was spent on better conditions for people living in the Arctic and on improving marine, climate and air pollution life. Then we would have come a long way and then we would also be closer to living peacefully with our surroundings. In this light, I am surprised that the report does not mention with a single word the report of the Nordic Council, which was published here in Copenhagen a year and a half ago, namely the one called "New Nordic Peace', which points to these fantastic opportunities that we have. We have plenty of basis to work with it. The front page looks like this, and I know that many members of the Folketing have read it. Our social security report looks like this if the Minister should not have seen it, and I think that the Minister should deal with what we do in parliamentary forums in the Nordic context, so that it becomes an integral part of the work of every government and every Council of Ministers rather than just talking about what ministers themselves think of. It was mostly about what isn't written, and I think that's important to get along with it. I hope that the Minister will address this in the future. But thank you for your statement. It gives good cause for debate and, as the Minister has probably understood from what I have said, raises a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173141	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173144	Just for a moment: this Nordic unity on disarmament, as Mr. Christian Juhl praises is not quite the reality. The reality is, of course, that the Nordic countries are in the process of enormous armament. The Swedes are raising the defence budget by 40%.; the Finns are doing something similar; the Norwegians are on their way to the 2%, and we are in one way or another. So that's reality. The second, as Mr. Christian Juhl talks about maybe something that belongs to a completely different and earlier time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173224	I see that as a comment from Mr. Søren Espersen, and we live in our own world, I must say. For if the future is to be that we must arm and arm and spend more and more of our national product on it, that is not my vision. On the contrary, I think it is the most foolish way to deal with the current problems. That is why I would also like to say that I am deeply disappointed that the Swedes will spend an extra 40%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. I am neither in favour of Trump nor Putin, nor, for that matter, of the Chinese leader. I am in favour of working with the people who live in those countries and having good neighbourly relations with them. That's why I'm trying to draw some visions about how it could and should be. I guess that's why we're in politics. I guess it's not just to say, yes, the reality looks that way, so we'd better march in that direction. Because we have to change the world. That's why we're politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173332	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173346	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much to the Minister for that fine statement. I have sat down here on my stick in the back row listening to what has been said by my very sensible bourgeois colleagues, and I have therefore written my speech a little bit about. Because there is no reason for us to stand and repeat each other on the floor of Parliament's platform just to participate in dragging the time as far as possible and when I look at the slightly empty looks in the Chamber, I think that is probably very sensible. We regard good and strong Nordic cooperation as even very important, and before us is work that goes far beyond the level we are already seeing today. We believe that it is extremely important that, in addition to those we have heard of today, we should not forget that Russia is annexing and so on. In the cyber area, we are in many ways challenged in terms of our cooperation. We have set up an ad hoc group of experts, and here I think it is of the utmost importance that we go further. With regard to our security in this area too, there are essential infrastructure issues in which we need to cooperate. Our electricity, power and water supplies are in great danger of being fired at from outside, and it is therefore important that we go even further in this cooperation to protect our critical infrastructure, among other things. in these important areas. In the area of hybrid threats, it is also essential that we ensure joint Nordic cooperation in order to strengthen our resilience to these threats across different policy areas, for example. in connection with the development and application of new technologies: AI, i.e. artificial intelligence, and the various new techniques for data collection that are now in this new world. In the Nordic countries, we have also got cooperation up and running with the British and Americans. Thus, on 16 and 20 May of the year F-16 and Typhoon aircraft from the United States and England respectively landed for the exercise of the Arctic Challenge, and the English said in this connection that they had not previously had exercises northerner than Scotland. It is important that we continue this training, as it is important that they also receive cold weather training, so that we are able to be protected also under NATO, also in relation to the debate that was earlier in the Chamber, about the Arctic, so that we are ready to stand and protect the Northern Hemisphere. In relation to Nordic cooperation in the material field, it could be fantastic if we were to have the opportunity in NORDEFCO at a later stage to make more than just common uniforms, perhaps even joint cooperation in the field of equipment. It could be really, really exciting to think if we had common patrol ships that could sail around and patrol, and at the same time we could occupy them with soldiers from our different units. These ships could be a common possession. And we just have to remember that it is important to patrol the EU's northern external borders, and this is where we are. There is no doubt that we would like to see an extension of NORDEFCO cooperation, for example. In addition, intelligence, operations, training and practice activities and capabilities are also essential in relation to the aforementioned material area. And let me briefly mention that cooperation could also begin to expand in relation to a pandemic period, i.e. in relation to the covid-19. We could work together on that too. In addition, the green one has been mentioned; we would really like to do so. We are a small country, but we are a large area and together we are large, and we must make use of this for even wider, better and closer cooperation in the Nordic countries. Finally, I should like to say thank you very much from the SF for the statement and that they are very happy with the green part in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173812	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173817	Now I think the Conservative rapporteur has been bored for other reasons. It has not been a boring debate today, I think. In fact, I think we have got something of the core of what a Parliament should be dealing with, namely how we live with our neighbours, how we make it a better and richer area to work and live in. I agree with the rapporteur on what he says about civilian preparedness. That is where we have worked intensively in the Nordic Council and where I think the Minister could be a little aware that the parliaments are actually working on it. But there was one thing that puzzled me, and I did not understand it at all: how are the electricity and water supply in the current situation threatened? We have the most secure system in this area and we learn from each other across borders in the Nordic countries to make it even better, not to have contaminated water and to have cheap and green electricity etc. etc., and we expand and exchange power and exchange knowledge about the entire supply area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173921	Thank you, and in relation to the rapporteur's earlier remarks about being a dinosaur, I will not comment on that. This isn't about green current or where the water comes from. It is a question of whether there will be any possibility, of outside forces, of going in and blocking water supplies, in other words shutting them down or shutting down the power supplies. And that is what we must protect ourselves from, and I think that is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173946	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020173948	Now we've both grown up in the Cold War time or I'm at least (Niels Flemming Hansen Yes, you etc. I even remember the pamphlet from right before I went to school. Then a climate of fear was created. But I mean, who would at the moment come in and shut down the power? The Americans don't want to, the Chinese don't want to trade with us either, and the Russians don't have the capacity for that kind of thing at all. I mean, shouldn't we be careful that we don't create some ghost perceptions of our neighbors that aren't related at all to the reality we're living in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174023-2	Thank you. I have to say that when we look at what Russia has of opportunities to annex our critical infrastructure with their trolls we've seen how they've done it during the British elections... they can come a lot, much far, and they're significantly more skilled at cyber attacks than we think. If you sit in the Chamber and think that this is a threat that is by no means relevant, then I am afraid you are deeply, deeply mistaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174057	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174112	Thank you for the floor. If you have vision, you have to see a doctor. That is what Germany's old Chancellor, the Socialist honorary Helmut Schmidt, said. Helmut Schmidt belonged to the extreme right of the SPD, and when I sometimes get really tired of visions, and there are many of them here in the Folketing, it is not so rare that my ears find themselves in conversation with representatives of a group here in the Folketing, which I usually call the black Social Democrats. I am not going to mention any names, but they are sensible people on the extreme right of the party, and with them we can agree on a great deal. One of the classic black Social Democrats was Denmark's former Foreign Minister Per Hækkerrup. He would probably have enjoyed Helmut Schmidt's comment and agreed. When I mention Per Hækkerup, it is because in 1965 he published a book called Denmark's foreign policy. Here Per Hækkerup said that Danish foreign policy is based on four pillars: firstly, NATO; secondly, what is today called the European Union; then it is the United Nations; and then it is the North. And as all of us who are here in the Chamber can hear, this is still the starting point for Danish foreign policy, 55 years after Hækkerup published his little book. We have NATO for the sake of our security; we have the European Union for the sake of the market and economic growth; and then we have the United Nations and the North for value policy reasons. NATO is and remains the guarantor of Denmark's security, and basically it is not something that Nordic defence and emergency cooperation is changing. It is a cooperation that we have for idealistic and value-political reasons, and we should not ignore them. They confirm the cohesion of a number of Scandinavian values with some countries that are very close to us both politically and culturally and in a broader sense emotionally. And it is these very different security policy arrangements and alliances that make operational cooperation in fact often very difficult. It is incredibly good that we can meet with our Nordic friends, and it also describes how we do when there are no covid-19 states. And it is also good that in selected areas we can fill out gaps and complement where NATO is not enough. I think we have had a very good explanation of this here, so we welcome it, and I thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174440	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174441	Thank you. It was just metaphysical enough for me to keep up. Yesterday I was at a meeting in the United Nations City with others. Mr. Bertel Haarder, where we were with the head of the World Food Programme, who makes sure I don't remember whether it's millions, but that's at least right, a lot of people. Let's say in millions of people every day get something to eat, and as he said, it can be seen as an end in itself that they have to survive, but we also see it in the World Food Programme as an effort to prevent conflicts, crises and wars, because if people are satisfied, there is less chance of a conflict arising because you don't have to fight about things. To call it a value-policy effort, I think it's just small enough. I would consider that, in the years they have worked, the United Nations has done more war prevention and crisis prevention than any other organisation mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174548	There are several points in the rapporteur's remarks: firstly, it is a dear duty for me to bring metaphysics into the Assembly, so I welcome the fact that it was mentioned and recognised. Now the statement is not about the UN, but about the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. I certainly do not think that the UN should be overruled. The UN vaccination programmes have also worked extremely well, but although they have a practical side, they are precisely value policy. It is therefore because of values, because of the common humanity that we all have, that we engage in countries and people who live far away from where we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174634	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174636	I would also like to comment on the Nordic issue. It is as if this is what some call a celebration of cousins and cousins, and I think that is very demeaning to this rather concrete cooperation that we have. Every year we do things that make Nordic use, as we call it, and which benefit specifically. In this statement, there is a series of concrete civil society tasks that are qualified by cross-border cooperation, which is becoming stronger, cheaper and more effective, by doing so together. To call it a... now I don't even remember the expression, I think is underestimating Nordic co-operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174717	It's like sir. Christian Juhl has a very negative attitude towards value policy. I have a very positive view on this, so when I say that this is a matter of value policy, it is very, very positive on my part. How many results have been achieved can be discussed. There was a famous Danish Prime Minister who said that the drawer of declarations of intent was filled when it came to Nordic cooperation, but the drawer of results was not quite that much in it. Maybe that's a little true.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174746	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Henrik Dahl. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020174800	Defence cooperation is also important when it comes to Greenland and the Arctic. I thought that was something I should remind you of in this Chamber, but I can hear that all the rapporteurs are in agreement. The Arctic and Greenland have in recent years been the subject of a tension between major powers such as the United States, Russia and China, and most recently we have seen that Russia has appointed a Russian honorary consul in Greenland. The increased tension in the Arctic and in our country we see from Greenland with great concern. We also believe that low-voltage must be the goal in our part of the world, which is why we also consider Nordic defence and emergency cooperation to be important. In NORDEFCO, the Nordic Defence Cooperation, the Arctic is among Denmark's priorities, and that is why we from Greenland will also link a few words to the cooperation. Greenland's area is 2 million. km2 is a huge area that Arctic Command today defends well, but we also know all the challenges that we are not solving well enough today. We cannot defend or cover Greenland alone, which is why cooperation is crucial both in the North and in the Arctic. The area around Greenland is difficult to reach, and the vast area calls for us to look at the increased use of satellites, drones, artificial intelligence and modern equipment to also continue to preserve sovereignty over the area. Recently we have also seen that Terma, the Danish company, as among others. is the supplier of the future F-35 fighters, has been out to say that the Arctic is considered of particular strategic importance to the company in the next few years. At the turn of the year we also know that there will be a new service contract in the Search and Rescue area in Greenland. This year it is uncertain whether we are meeting the target of a rescue rate of 94, but that is something on which we all agree; we saw that it was 100 per cent. Therefore, we also believe that in the future we should have a special focus on being prepared and strengthening the preparedness in Greenland. The longer the time horizon we have to ensure good preparedness, the easier it will also be to strengthen preparedness. The Search and Rescue response in Greenland today costs thought-provokingly the same as the response costs in North Jutland. The rescue helicopter, which is used in Kangerlussuaq today, is too old and is being taken off the alert already this year. And that is why it cannot be said clearly enough that, in addition, it is also crucial for us to say that we must work towards getting Greenlandic rescuers on board these helicopters that need to be forward-looking, because it must not be a linguistic barrier that is the difference between whether or not you are rescued in a good way. In general, we also want Greenland to be involved when it comes to defence cooperation. There are many good local powers. There is good cooperation with Greenlandic authorities, local authorities, with which there is very good experience. We must continue to develop the cooperation that exists. And the voluntary preparedness that we have fought for many years ago in the defence settlement, we also want to hear something more about, because it is so important to involve the local forces. We also know that the Danish Emergency Response Association has worked with an initiative called "A robust citizen of Greenland," which we also want to support from the IA, because Denmark has some knowledge that we do not necessarily have in Greenland but that can be built up in Greenland. On the part of the IA, we would like to conclude by thanking you for the increased focus and political attention that we believe the defence work is getting in Greenland • both across the parties, but also with the government. We're really, really happy about that. And I can also inform you that cybersecurity is something that is being discussed in Greenland in these weeks, because it is something we have been concerned about, including here on the part of the Danish Parliament. Unfortunately, this focus is also happening in a more uncertain time, because there's this attention from these great powers, and I think that's something that worries a lot of us in this Chamber. That is why we are also looking forward to the many good initiatives of the next few years, hopefully, in this area where, hopefully, the focus is also on low voltage and preparedness. And then we also hope to be able to contribute to a future defence settlement ourselves, for everything else just knows Greenland, our homeland, a little better than most of the people in this room. With those words, we would like to thank you for the debate and we look forward to the debate that we hope will be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020175317	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Edmund Joensen from Sambandsflockkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020175329	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Defence for the statement which I read as a positive development of the cooperation NORDEFCO. In the past, I have been somewhat reluctant to NORDEFCO and have sometimes wondered about the lack of competence in this Nordic defence cooperation. Of course there has been coordinated procurement of equipment and courses etc., and that is certainly positive, but I have missed a common Nordic line in matters relating to our Nordic region. It was therefore with great pleasure that I read in the Minister for Defence's statement that NORDEFCO's most important result is the establishment of a crisis consultation mechanism to strengthen information sharing in the Nordic countries, as it is called a mechanism that can be activated in a situation where regional stability or the territorial integrity or security of a Nordic country are threatened. The report states that the purpose of this mechanism is to contribute to a common situational picture and to provide an opportunity to coordinate positions on, for example: international incidents affecting the safety of the Nordic region. This is good news and a step in the right direction after Denmark has to hold the presidency for a year. I would like to dwell on the word joint. Everyone is aware that the Kingdom of Denmark and our Nordic neighbours, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Finland, all have different conditions for participating in a cooperation such as NORDEFCO. We are in many ways different, but we share the Nordic geographical proximity and we share the Nordic cultural cohesion. Therefore, there is no doubt that cooperation such as NORDEFCO is relevant and has great potential, because the Nordic countries need to cooperate, and Nordic defence cooperation should be strengthened even more than we do today. We have a common interest and a commitment to unite and strengthen cooperation when there is such a focus on our region. In particular, it is important that we have common strategies and make joint statements, so that we are in line with the other great powers in our region. This is more important than ever because of the great powers' interest in our region. I must therefore say that I am surprised that Sweden, Norway and Finland have entered into separate cooperation because we are experiencing an increased security threat from Russia. It is positive that Sweden increases its defence budget. This shows me that they are willing to secure the defence policy line in our region. Similarly, it is positive that Sweden and Finland are involved in this defence policy cooperation with a focus on the North Kalotten. My message is just: Of course, Denmark and Iceland must also participate in this increased cooperation. It is not only in the North that the Russians are showing an increased presence, and it is not only the Swedish airspace that is being violated by Russian aircraft. In the Faroe Islands we have seen several times, among others. in spring, how Russian aircraft have been close to or in Faroese airspace. I am therefore surprised that Denmark and Iceland are outside the agreement that I understand, signed by the defence ministers in Norway and Sweden and Finland. I am surprised that the whole North is not united on this potential Russian threat. A common Nordic voice would sound stronger at any time than the voice of each country, and a threat to one of our countries is a threat to our entire region. The joint Nordic voice can be translated into NORDEFCO, but we need to make better use of the potential of the cooperation. I welcome this debate we have had today and hopefully the Minister for Defence will take all the input into it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020175905	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020175920	I am not going to do it this far, but when the debate is here, I have to say some things that I say over and over again. When we talk about defence, I feel called to say that, historically, some major mistakes have been made by Denmark. The Faroese authorities have been bypassed; agreements have been made with the United States bypassing the Faroese authorities, and installations have been installed in the Faroe Islands, which no one in the Faroe Islands knew what was involved. There were some installations that were not known before 1999 were military installations... they were thought to be something else. It is necessary to remind you over and over again that you cannot do that again. It is also necessary, when we talk about defence, to take as a starting point the location of the installations. There was an article in Politiken the other day that I have referred to before, where some people were talking about that of course we need to set up a radar on the Faroe Islands. It's poison to talk like that. The Faroe Islands are no one's backyard. It is incredibly important that you start from the North Atlantic when you talk about the North Atlantic, and not see it as something that you just need to control. That's it. I agree with what has been said so far in the debate; I do not have so many disagreements even with it, we should say red LAs. If I'm a black Social Democrat, maybe someone else is a red LA. But, as I said, I agree with most of them. There's just one party that stands out a little, and that's Enhedslisten. I do not quite understand why, when you talk about Russia, it is said that it is something you speak up as a false threat picture that it is ghosts. It's not like it's ghosts. In concrete terms, there are flights that are illegal, there are exercises that are illegal and there are repeated attacks on information flows, with the aim of undermining democratic processes in other countries. We are probably entering a time when you also want synthetic news streams where you can take a person and make him so real and make him say things that look so real that people will think he's the one who says it. But it's not. It's something that's made on a computer. We face great challenges and those who want to attack democracy are not on the left; they are very active. It has been proved, and we must deal with it. When it comes to the world situation, it is incredibly important that the Nordic countries cooperate. We have the same values. And it is interesting in terms of defence that the funds spent on Iraq and Afghanistan and Mali, etc., will be moved northwards. We must protect Denmark itself and the NATO countries bordering Russia. And then there is a blind angle to the Faroe Islands; a radar has to be set up. We have talked about this before; I have talked about this in the debate just now, and I shall go into it again. I think that is a necessary thing to do, unfortunately. However, it is incredibly necessary for decisions to be taken in every way and for practical work to be carried out on all fronts, because otherwise it will feel like something alien that comes from outside and is being pulled down over you, and it will create a resistance to the installations that unfortunately have to be set up. It is also a feeling for many convicts that now there is an installation which, although it is a radar, is an attack target. People will think: If a war comes, what will the enemy remove as soon as possible? It is the eye that sees the operations that are carried out in the air, so it must go away, it must be attacked, it must be bombed. That's why the Faroe Islands are turned into a bomb target, and that's why you're against it. And if it is even so that you become urbanized in the process itself, then the resistance will be very great. So it is incredibly important to have an ongoing dialogue on this, which involves as much as possible. That is what I have to say on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180351	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180354	We could just say that we disagreed about what the true state of the world is or what the conditions of strength are like. But I feel that sometimes I also want to lift up and look at ourselves a little critically. We glorify our own way of running it: our military is something nice and proper, the others are something terrible. So, I would like to remind you that the planes of Danish and also our allies are testing the borders against Russia. They do so consciously to see when they are responding. The Air Force openly tells us about this; there is no need to have inside knowledge. We have had the largest marine exercise up north so far, where not only Nordic countries participated, but where European countries participated and the United States participated for the first time. If you cannot see that it is perceived by a party against which you are opposed, then it can only go wrong and I am certainly not in favour of Russia or Russia's leadership. I just think the people deserve better, and I think we all deserve better with fewer weapons. That is why I say: why do we turn a blind eye when it comes to ourselves? We're only looking at the enemy. It can only go wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180511	Of course, you have to be critical of yourself. Of course. It may be that the exercises carried out close to Russia's border have been provocative. I'm not gonna be able to say that at all, but it may be. But when we look at the fact that we say that ours is good and theirs is terrible, I would say that there is a difference between democracies and dictatorships. Our system is better. We have a much better system, we have a system that must be protected from aggression: we have freedom of speech, we have women's rights, we have free choice, we have a free economy. We have the best system in the world and it's under threat. That we may have been doing exercises that were just as close to Russia's border and that have been provocative, I should not be able to say perhaps! But our system is far, far better, and it is worth protecting and necessary to protect, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180610	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180612	I just don't believe that more military hardware is good for the situation. I am in favour, for example. Those who are rebelling in Belarus, I support those who are rebelling in Russia, I support those who are rebelling and being oppressed in China, because I believe that there must be a democratic uprising from below. I also believe in our own system. It can get better, but we have a pretty good system. We don't have to discuss that at all. I'm just saying, how do we help create better conditions for other people? Are we more military or are we supporting the democratic forces in those countries? I know what I'd choose if I had to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180650	I know. We understand that. I have a lot of sympathy for the view that is being expressed by the Enhedslisten. I just do not think that it has to be either-or, you can do both. One can defend oneself and support the democratic movements that are around in the countries suffering from dictatorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180715	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next one to speak is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020180724	Thank you for that and thank you for your many good kicks, remarks, questions and, not least, interest. I think that the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation has the priority here in the Folketing that it deserves. And precisely because Nordic co-operation is so important, I am pleased that on 1 January this year Denmark took over the presidency of NORDEFCO and the Haga cooperation. During our presidency, we have contributed to further strengthening cooperation. This is and has been an important task and an opportunity to take responsibility for our security in the Nordic region at a time when Russia is arming and getting closer and where we see attacks from cyberspace and new developments in the Arctic. It challenges security and stability and thus also the free and democratic foundation on which Denmark and the other Nordic countries are founded. We agree on that in the North we must stand together to deal with it. We were not far into the Danish NORDEFCO Presidency until I, together with the other Nordic countries, took up our new so-called crisis consultation mechanism. It was not just an exercise that we had practiced until the turn of the year, but because we were faced with a crisis that had to be dealt with: the attack on Al Asad Airbase. And then the corona knocked on the door, and we used the crisis consultation mechanism and coordinated across countries. It is clear that when we can put ourselves together in this way and exchange information in a special network that we only share in NORDEFCO, it is because we trust each other. It is not just something that has suddenly arisen; it is something we have spent a long time building. In this context, I would like to give a concrete example of trust. This summer there was a bomb-threatened passenger plane on its way from England to Oslo Airport, and if Norway had not shown such confidence, it would not have been Danish fighters who were asked to follow the plane all the way through Norwegian airspace and to land it. The fact that they saw breaking the sound barrier, when they quickly sat on their wings and flew up through Jutland, was of course something that attracted some attention. We deal with this noise in another direction, but I think it underlines how important it is that we have confidence and how important it is that we have close contact with each other and can work together. Nordic trust does not come on its own, and we must take care of it so that it stays there. It comes from the fact that over the years we in the Nordic countries have had and have a close community based on the same values, and also that we see the world with similar spectacles when it comes to the security policy situation. We are all small nations which, despite different alliances, face the same challenges. Together we take responsibility for our security in the Nordic countries. From the Danish side, therefore, from the start of the Presidency, we set out a clear line and identified a number of issues which we will give special priority during the presidency year • areas that we have set out to give extra power and push on. These are initiatives which are relevant and important contributions to the work on security and security and which make particular sense to work with across the Nordic countries and which, of course, are also part of NORDEFCO's vision for 2025, which was adopted some years ago. It's about cybersecurity, where we each have knowledge across the Nordic countries. Cybersecurity is a very complex area that makes good sense to work together, not least because it requires very high expertise, which is not much in the respective countries. During the Presidency, a Danish-led working group has virtually put itself together to explore the possibilities for closer cooperation and exchange of experiences with education and training initiatives in the field of cybersecurity. We have different approaches in the Nordic countries, but we can clearly learn from each other how to maintain and develop competences in this area and also exchange information, which is the prerequisite for us to be able to deal with and warn about the challenges that exist. I am pleased that we have made a good step forward in the field of cybersecurity. It takes a great deal, because it is not enough to take long steps, one must keep running preferably in front of the ball rolling. In addition, it has been important to create momentum in relation to the climate agenda and green defence. Under Danish military leadership there has therefore been an important work in the process of looking at and sharing experiences in reducing CO2 And here we have already gained some experience, which will also be further developed. I also believe that, in the long run, when new technologies come in, we can, in cooperation, support it and share useful knowledge. Security in the Arctic is an area that requires greater and greater attention in Denmark and in general in the Nordic countries, and that is why, during the Presidency, we have worked to strengthen the defence and military dialogue on knowledge sharing between the Nordic countries on the Arctic. And precisely security in the Arctic is the issue that I put at the top of the agenda when I meet with my Nordic colleagues in November. I think it is obvious to explore ways of cooperating more closely in this area. There is no doubt that the United States plays an absolutely crucial role in the security of the North and Europe, and that is why it has also been important to push on to strengthen the Nordic transatlantic relationship work. In this context, and in concrete terms, the participation of the United States in the great Nordic flight exercise Arctic Challenge Exercise is absolutely crucial. Therefore, during the year of the Presidency, Denmark, together with the other Nordic countries, has worked to ensure a solid American commitment to future exercises as well. Positive progress has been made in this direction. You should not be an expert in security policy to understand why it is important that we have close defence cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. In short, it's about geography. To put it at the forefront: if something happens in one country, it will affect the others. And that is why it is at the heart of Vision 2025 and an important priority in the year of the Presidency to strengthen the ability to cooperate in crises and conflicts. Cooperation in NORDEFCO is already strong, but has so far limited itself to cooperation in peacetime. During the Danish Presidency, therefore, we have also focused on strengthening the ability to cooperate during crises and conflicts. And it is clear that in particular the crisis consultation mechanism, which in Swedish is called criskonsultationmekanism, sounds a little more schwung-like, has been a crucial tool for this. And there was also a major crisis rolling in with corona, where we have actually had great, great use of the mechanism and gained some useful experience. Finally, we have focused on strengthening Nordic co-operation in the material field, among others. in relation to cooperation with the Nordic defence industry and the European Defence Fund. Nordic co-operation is characterised by strong cohesion and resilience, which has clearly marked the year of the Presidency, where we have carried out a series of activities and meetings throughout the year. The cooperation has taken a good turn during the Nordic NORDEFCO Presidency, and when Denmark transfers the Presidency to Finland in 2021, we will of course continue our active commitment to developing the cooperation. I would also like to mention briefly our cooperation with the Nordic countries on international tasks, for example. within the framework of NATO or UN missions. Nordic makes sense to work together on international operational tasks. This means that together we can either solve larger tasks or send out contributions over a longer period of time. Let me give you a concrete example: the cooperation in the deployment of transport aircraft to the UN mission in Mali, to which several of the Nordic countries have also contributed since 2016. Here the participating countries are switched to send transport air transport contributions to MINUSMA, and in this way countries can support the UN over a longer period of time, with a requested contribution. And, by the way, there is also real satisfaction among the soldiers with the Norwegian canteen operation. It's rare to hear it when you're out, but really, really, really great satisfaction, and it's one of the things that can make such a show really, really good, they're good at that, the Norwegians. Most recently, a Danish transport aircraft contribution was made to MINUSMA from November 2019 until mid-July of this year. With regard to the Nordic emergency cooperation, in 2020 there has also been a positive development of cooperation, which helps to strengthen the country's resilience to natural and man-made disasters, and here too we have moved on to cooperation. With the so-called Copenhagen Declaration of February 2020, the Nordic Emergency Response Authorities showed how this should be done. It is about strengthened Nordic emergency cooperation in the light of climate change and more extreme weather conditions. With the declaration, the Nordic countries have given each other their hands on, among other things. working for more compatible equipment and sharing tactics and procedures, and we will also systematically share knowledge about natural hazards, develop common procedures for supporting each other and explore the possibility of joint exercises. It is essential that cooperation works in practice, and it does. To put it a little popular: The snakes fit together when it comes to it. At the same time, however, we must also think new things. During the Danish Haga Presidency, we have thus highlighted the importance of close civilian-military cooperation and cyber threats during crises, and this has given rise to important exchanges of experience. Then there is also, and I think this is important to mention, very strong and positive cooperation between the Nordic Home Guards. The exchange of experience and knowledge and cooperation on training and exercise activities are ongoing. For me, there is no doubt that the Nordic community is something special and can do something special, and although we have different security policy starting points both within and outside NATO, we are strong when we stand together. I want us to strengthen our cooperation. I mean, it's good for the North. I believe that it benefits Denmark, and that is why you will also see me as Minister for Defence continuing along the path that has already been trodden. Then I would just like to answer some of the specific questions that have been raised. Sir. Bertel Haarder asks why Denmark is not part of the agreement on Nordkalotten. That is because the cooperation is about the places that are geographically located to the area, and that is Finland, Norway and Sweden, and that is why Denmark and Iceland are not part of exactly this cooperation. Well, we don't have a geographical proximity to it. We have been informed about the cooperation, but we have not been informed either because it has had the geographical common understanding from the start invited to it, but we are involved in many other collaborations covering the areas where we have a geographical proximity, both in the Arctic but also under the auspices of some of the major collaborations, such as NATO, and where we have both exercises and tools in relation to Russian activities. Then Mr. Christian Juhl on the recommendations that have come from the Nordic Council. These are good recommendations, I would say, and I am going back with you, that the answers are not considered adequate enough. What is behind it is that many of the proposals that have been made have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. That is why I think it would be false to start answering anything other than that these initiatives have been initiated. Other recommendations are very analytical and are aimed at plans, and there it is the common understanding of the preparedness that this being able to act, this being able to make it work out there, is more important to them than plans on paper, and therefore it is there that the energy is best spent on operational activities and on making the capacity fit together in practice. As far as the United States is concerned, we may look at it a little differently, and it is no shame that we look at things differently. In relation to the Great Power Rival, where there are various parties that act in the Arctic and show their teeth in the Arctic, I personally do not think that the choice is so difficult. The United States is a democratic country, based on democratic principles, is a community of law, and that is why I do not think the elections are difficult when it comes to finding its close allies and partners. To Mr. Henrik Dahl: Thanks for anecdotes and stories. You're always smarter than that, sir. Henrik Dahl's talking. I do not know whether there are in fact some black Social Democrats left today, either in Denmark or in the Nordic countries. I think everyone will say that they are Green Socialists, but that does not change the fact that I find there is a lot of black humor, including among the Nordic defence ministers. Thank you to the Greenlandic and Faroese members. It's always rewarding with good kicks. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. I think we have a good and honest dialogue, and I hope it will continue. I believe that the good and honest and constructive dialogue is what we are all doing the longest. Well, then, sir. Sjúrður Skaale talks about something with backyards. I have, of course, as sir. Sjúrður Skaale knows, a close association with the Faroe Islands and has therefore been in the Faroe Islands many times. I never thought there'd be gardens in the Faroe Islands. At least it's not exactly what hits me. So a handshake says that the concept of gardens is not what I am going to use at least not when we talk about the Faroe Islands, but it does not change that we are together in the Kingdom Community. We're united. We have a joint task. We have a common security and security that we have a responsibility to the citizens to uphold. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182343	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182354	Thanks for the answers. I asked for the floor just to point out that the completely new cooperation between Sweden, Norway and Finland is not a North-Calot cooperation. The North Calotte has just been mentioned as an example and, just after that example has been mentioned, it is explicitly mentioned that this is a cooperation on interoperability in cases where countries have chosen to respond jointly in a crisis situation. That is why I would like to ask: is it to be understood in this way that Denmark has not been invited at all? Because if Denmark has not been invited, there will be an opportunity next week to raise a question about it with the Nordic prime ministers. We have them in the Nordic Council, and we have a question session, and I will ask about that, i.e. if Denmark has not been invited. If Denmark has
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182504	Yes, we have been informed, but I know we have not been invited, and that is because the starting point for the three countries has been the North Calotte, which is cooperating around. This does not change the fact that Denmark is involved in many other cooperations, including with the countries in question, where we cover other geographical areas. And that is why I do not believe that military understanding has been that we exclude ourselves from something or that we are not part of solving the security task for which we all have a responsibility. Denmark also participates, under the auspices of NORDEFCO, but also under the auspices of NATO, in cooperation directly addressing the military threats from Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182549	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182551	If Denmark had been invited, would the Minister have said yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182600	That depends on what the drills are actually about. Because we also have a really big job to do in Denmark when it comes to the whole Arctic area, a place where we are ever more present and where we can see that we have a special responsibility and we are happy to lift that responsibility to ensure security. And that is why I think it is right that we should look at where we should be geographically present and to what extent and where we should go in to help our colleagues if they are in a situation that requires our presence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182633	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182636	This is about the civil society security debate. I myself was on that committee, and we had a very, very many meetings with the people who are practically in charge of the stakes, and that is why we formulated ourselves as we did. Many of these things have not been implemented, and many of the proposals we have put forward are aimed precisely at supplementing them with further initiatives. Some of them you also reject this is the case, for example. Suggestions for more training and all that stuff. It actually started with us seeing that there was a forest fire Sweden, and then some said: should we not try to pick up on what the concrete experiences are like and help our ministers with that? Ministers are a kind of servant of the Folketing, and not vice versa, which is why I would like to appeal to the Minister, because when we spend a year of work on it and have numerous meetings and send invitations to people and a unanimous Nordic Council recommends or adopts such a strategy, it is because we are serious about it. Otherwise, the Nordic Council is only for decoration. Then I would remind you that I mentioned two other reports, and you mentioned one, but you have not commented on the recommendations that are in it. The same goes for this rather good report on conflict resolution, which I think is a very good piece of work, and it's not all done by the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182742	Thank you. It's the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182800	As I said, I am going back with you that the answers to the proposals are not seen as good enough. I think that as a minister we have a responsibility to listen to the authorities who have the specific task to do. At any rate, this is something that I myself attach great importance to as a minister, in other words to respect the professionalism of the operational authorities and not to go in and dictate in concrete terms how they should work. However, I think that this will give rise to a greater degree of dialogue, because it might also contribute to the work if the respective authorities told us about how they are actually working and why they do not think that the recommendations they have rejected can support the work well. I think we should at least bear in mind that all of us, whether we are politicians, regardless of whether it is managers working in our emergency services or in the emergency services, or whether you are a parliamentarian or an executive member of the authorities, have an interest in protecting the citizens in the best way possible, and that is why I think it is a pity if there is a conflict in it at the political level when we have a common objective. So perhaps a greater degree of dialogue could be beneficial.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182924	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020182925	I see no political conflict. I see a common idea that we need to do something more and that we can be better and we can make greater Nordic use in the area of civil society security than we are today. That is why the Bureau has now said that we want to consult each of these areas and talk to them about it, and then they have to explain why the answer seems superficial. Because we want to move on and we have tried to gather information from all over the Nordic region for that strategy, and that is why we think we should now try to say to the Council of Ministers: Hey, there are some opportunities here to move on and we support if you listen to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183008	I had one for a recent meeting that said: there is no conflict between us as long as I get to decide. That is true, because then there is no conflict. I believe that this is about different views on how to actually strengthen emergency cooperation, which is why I believe that a strengthened dialogue, and possibly that we have our partners, in other words our authorities, to explain how the cooperation is going on, could perhaps support understanding of it, so that we can get the job done in the best way possible. Perhaps they could also understand some of the kicks that are coming, better, so they actually take them with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183047	Thank you. Now there has been a lot of talk about the preventive work that Norway is doing around the world. It is a state that has made its mark by going to mediation and conflict prevention, etc. I myself am aware of the publicity given to Norway. I have been a lot in Catalonia and the Basque Country etc., and Norway has a very, very high star because you are good at getting people up to Norway and getting enemies to meet and get a dialogue going and pave the way for agreements that will come later. Is this something that has been talked about in the Nordic context, that is, that Denmark should learn something from Norway in that context or do things together? All the Nordic countries should take on the task that Norway has so strongly demonstrated over the past many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183141	On the Danish side, we actually have a great deal of stabilisation work in the Ministry of Defence too, so what I think we could also learn from Norway is to get better at telling about it, i.e. the work we actually do and the advisory functions we also have in the defence sector. Now I have been Minister for Defence for over a year, and what is quite clear to me is that Denmark is very much in demand for advisory tasks, which are very much the preventive nature too. It is also our defense that is the really good education we give the soldiers in the luggage, being asked for this type of assignment. So I certainly think it makes sense to put it into perhaps a little stronger frameworks and start communicating more strongly about it. I could imagine that this could be a theme in Nordic co-operation. Right now we have other tasks, but I could imagine that it could be a theme when we reach a few years ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183245	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183247	Thank you. I think that would be a very good idea too. Thorvald Stoltenberg was very good at it too, and he was very good at marketing Norway with it. He showed up with such a small can of mackerel in tomato, and then he got the parties to sit down and said that now we put the weapons aside and divide a small can of mackerel in tomato. It became such a symbol of Norway's approach to things that were fabulously clever. It is a good idea to market it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183316	I'll consider buying cans of tuna. I think it is not so politically correct with tuna, but then a can of politically correct fish that we can carry around with us. I do not think licorice will increase the scope for cooperation, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183332	Thank you. With the final words, there are no more brief remarks to the Minister for Defence. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183342	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183404	Thank you, Madam President. Corona has changed our everyday life in so many ways. When we can't meet physically, we meet online instead. It has paved the way for various providers of Internet-based communications services, which I think most of us are now wearing the black belt in this coronatide. After all, we recently experienced the reality of the Foreign Policy Name in terms of creating security online. We must be better able to secure ourselves, but part of the responsibility also lies with the Internet-based communications services, also known as NUIK service providers. The bill we have to deal with today is precisely targeted at those providers. To put it quite simply, the rules governing traditional telecommunications services must also apply to the new Internet-based providers. That is why we need to implement the EU's telecommunications code for providers. We need to do this because we need to have confidence in the security of the platform where we communicate and where communication is taking place. We need to know who is listening, who is watching, and we need to know how the data is being processed. Internet-based services have come to stay and therefore we must ensure that they are subject to relevant information requirements and a notification obligation, just as the existing services are today. And we can do this by implementing the EU's telecommunications code. In the Social Democratic Party we uphold Danish security, both publicly and online, and therefore the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. And I had to say from Radicals that they are also in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183631	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183645	Thank you. This is a legislative proposal about how we can become even better at protecting our society at a time when society is becoming more and more digital. Of course, we on the Left support that. In this context, we must continue to monitor the so-called NUIK services, such as: Skype, in the same way as other telecommunications providers are supervised. This is important because these providers are becoming an increasingly integrated part of the Danes' everyday lives, and we must, of course, also ensure that safety is taken into account. I look forward to the work of the committee on the legislative proposal, as I have noted in the hearings that some organisations are concerned about whether the bill is too intrusive and empowers the Cybersecurity Centre to have powers and mandates that may lead to interference in citizens' rights. Of course, we must make sure that we have found the right balance. Having said that, the draft law generally looks very sensible, and I am pleased that we are now moving one step further to ensure that our more and more digital world is safe in the future too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183807	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183820	Thank you very much. I am not the rapporteur in this area, but as our rapporteur, Mrs Flyvholm, cannot be present, I will make her views known. It is the case that Enhedslisten considers it very sensible to have common standards for safe communication. It is also sensible to extend the area to network-based services. But in the Enhedslisten we have the fundamental concern that it is the Cybersecurity Centre that is under the service of the Defence Intelligence Service that is responsible for the work. We believe that our cybersecurity should be governed by a civil authority, as is also done in a number of other European countries. This would be both more effective and ensure better transparency and protection of citizens and corporate information. We will ask follow-up questions during the legislative work on the powers of the Centre for Cybersecurity and on the concerns raised by a number of consultation responses as to whether changes will be made in the future by law or by legislative decrees. And then we will see what further treatment leads to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183925	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183934	Thank you very much. We must also state that we are in complete agreement and we have looked forward to the examination of the proposal. However, we can say from this that we are confident that it is the Cybersecurity Centre that must lay down the rules for providers and we look forward to further discussion in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020183957	Thank you. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184005	Thank you. The legislative proposal, as has already been said, is a technical legislative proposal which implements an EU directive and leads to standardisation. We are, of course, in favour of this, and I should like to welcome it from the Danish People's Party and say that they can also support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184029	Thank you. Then we'll be through the rapporteur's line, so the next person to be on the platform is the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184037	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your brief and precise speech during the debate on the draft law and also for the relatively broad support for the proposal. Technological developments have gone very fast in recent years. We increasingly use new services such as Skype, Messenger, WhatsApp and the like when we communicate, and thus we become more vulnerable. Because what if the new services are hacked or if they get hit by errors, then they crash? The wide spread of the new services means that the consequences can be enormous, because they are services that we all use and which are central to both our working lives and, above all, our leisure time. Today, the legislation imposes a number of safety requirements on traditional companies to ensure the functioning of the telecommunications network, i.e. both that it is protected against hacking, but also that it is protected against crashes that can paralyse society. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we are proposing to modernise the legislation, which means that in future, the requirements for telecommunications security will apply not only to traditional telecommunications companies but also to the new services that we use for our daily communications. This will create a framework for a more secure and robust telecommunications infrastructure. This is an important initiative that will make us less vulnerable. In conclusion, I would like to thank you again for your comments and I look forward to a constructive discussion of the draft law in committee and, of course, I am available to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184211	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184225	The debate is open. The first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184240	We live in a time when the threats are many. It can be terrorism, natural disasters or anything in between. It is therefore crucial that we can inform the Danes quickly and effectively if the accident is out. And therefore it makes great sense to be able to warn the Danes exactly where they would discover it most quickly. And where is it? It's on the phone that most people always have on them or with them. We live in a digital age where the mobile is a true companion for good and evil, and this is where the bill can use our close relationship with the phone for something good, namely to expand the national alert infrastructure for accidents and disasters. At present, we have a sensible alert infrastructure for accidents and disasters, which consists of a siren system combined with messages from DR and TV 2, supplemented by the emergency services' own communication channels. With the addition of a mobile alert system, which the legislation envisages, we will add another dimension to our alert infrastructure for accidents and disasters. However, a mobile alert system is something we never hope to need, but at the same time it is a means that we can use in our toolbox to deal with emergencies as effectively as possible. The Corona crisis has shown that, although we do not want to use our crisis response, it is important to always be clear and up-to-date on new technologies. With this bill, we are adding another tool to the crisis preparedness toolbox. Social democracy is in favour of the bill, and I should also say OK. From the Radicals to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184454	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184501	Thank you. In the Left, we generally welcome proposals where technology can help us on the road to a better, more efficient and safer society, and we believe that the proposal for a mobile alert system can do so. However, there are some things on which we need to have a dialogue during the committee's examination of the legislative proposal. First of all, we are somewhat concerned that there will of course only be a greater challenge with the citizens in the outermost regions where there is no proper mobile coverage if we move to a mobile alert system for disasters. We also note that there are several organisations which express concern in the consultation responses about the full phasing out of the siren warning system, as this could lead to the risk that some citizens who do not own a mobile phone or, for example, the use of mobile phones. if it has turned off during the transmission of an alert message, it will not be given the right warning and opportunity to get to safety. In addition, there is scepticism that a cell broadcast system cannot collect data about the end user, i.e. receive a receipt that the message is received and that the user is safe. We must also be aware of this in committee. In the Left, however, we generally see the proposal as a very good opportunity to make positive use of technological developments in communication between Danish citizens and authorities, which is why we agree with the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184630	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next to be on the platform is Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184646	Thank you. I also have the task of presenting Mrs Eva Flyvholm's views. I can say that we in the Enhedslist think it is sensible to ensure a better warning for citizens in the event of natural disasters and accidents, and that is why we support the proposal. It provides for the possibility of sending out alerts directly on text messages if something serious has happened in the vicinity of the individual. So that's a good solution. We can easily see that there may be some problems for those who do not have mobile phones, but of course we have to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184727	Thank you for that to Enhedslisten. The next one is sir. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184733	Thank you very much. Of course, we are also in favour of this proposal, since we are in favour of the development of our society. I have noted that the Department of Defense reimburses any expenses the mobile companies may have. That was a great concern. Then it is true that there is a concern about the phasing out of the old early warning system, which is about whether we are now sure to cover the whole country. Of course, that is a concern we have. We should also welcome the new citizens and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184804	Thank you. There are no brief comments. It looks as if I shall pass on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184815	Thank you for the floor. This is almost a brilliant proposal that moves the Wednesday siren onto the mobile phone, and it is a leap into the 21st century. It really improves preparedness, so of course it is something that we support. I should say hello from DF and say that they do too with great joy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184839	Thank you. Then no more rapporteurs should be allowed to speak. So the next one is the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020184847	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate on this proposal. We all know that in serious emergencies it is both minutes and seconds that count. By chemical spills, by toxic smoke from fires, or by outbreaks of epidemics or terrorist attacks, a rapid and effective warning of citizens can mean the difference between life and death. So it is important that we have an effective early warning system, and that is therefore essential for us to be able to inform citizens and give them good information and advice. That is why it is also an important legislative proposal that we are discussing here today, which comes from the European Union, so that we do not have it alone in Denmark. It is a legislative proposal that lays the foundations for our current early warning system to become even better and more effective. It is about establishing a mobile alert system in Denmark, which should not be in place of the well-known alert sirens. Perhaps I can thus respond to some of the concerns that have been raised today. The sirens continue, so if you've turned off your cell phone, you just have to unfold your ears, and then you can still hear the sirens. With the new system, we will be able to get warnings directly on our mobile phones if we, for example, are able to get warnings directly on our mobile phones. is in the vicinity of a fire that develops toxic smoke so we can tell where to go. Thus we will no longer be dependent on whether it is a place where we can hear the sirens or not, or whether the wind carries in a direction where it takes the sound with it, or whether we can turn on DR1 or TV 2 and see the alert messages. So it is a modern system that will greatly strengthen the security of all of us. Fast and effective communication is crucial in emergencies and disasters, and with this bill we will have both a faster and more effective opportunity to communicate directly to citizens when a serious danger arises. So this is an important initiative and I look forward to a constructive discussion of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185104	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185123	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185202	Thank you for that, President. L 11, the bill, which we are going to deal with here, gives the Danish Business Authority a little more muscle to supervise the companies covered by dual-use export controls and certain sanctions against third countries. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the Danish Business Authority be given better opportunities to obtain relevant information from the companies, while at the same time the Danish Business Authority is given the opportunity to carry out inspections, both notified and unannounced. This should not, of course, be a nuisance to economic operators. Therefore, verification visits will take place on the basis of a risk assessment and thematic approach. In this way, we ensure that Danish companies that do not meet their social responsibilities can be controlled if necessary. The consultation answers show that several professional organisations are critical of the Danish Business Administration's ability to carry out unanticipated inspections without judicial orders. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we believe that the specific powers proposed for the Danish Business Authority are proportional. There are some specific ethical obligations for companies acting in the framework of dual-use export controls and sanctions against third countries. When dual use products that can be used for both military and civilian purposes are to be exported, there must be control of where they go and this entails special responsibility both for the specific companies and for the controlling authority. We should take that responsibility on board, and that is what we are doing with this bill, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185403	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185407	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur says that there have been critical voices. One can safely say this: you are in opposition to the question of whether or not there should be an early inspection visit. After all, the rapporteur himself is saying that it is without legal orders, and that is exactly what is the key to this, namely why we suddenly come here from the government, that is, from the Social Democratic side, and start to say to an industry that has operated for many years and has many thousands of employees and all sorts of other things, that we now think it is appropriate that there should be these untimely inspections, without even being able to establish a firm framework for when these untimely inspections should be. One will only go in and make some concrete examples of how and how it could be. Does the rapporteur not think that it is shooting grey sparrows with cannons in relation to the specific companies that are, as I said, very reputable companies? At the same time, if the rapporteur wishes to insist that there should be these unpredicted inspections, does it not think that it should at least be appropriate to provide a firm framework for when they should be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185515	I'm just gonna do sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is aware that one of these well-estimated companies that has been operating on this market for many years the other day figured in the newspapers for possibly disregarding the rules that apply to this. That is why we think it is reasonable that the control authority should have an additional power to ensure that we do not risk taking any risks which should not be imposed on anyone by having the shared use of these products that we are talking about. Yes, we think it is timely care to try to ensure that there is a proper control system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185604	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185606	After all, it is important to bear in mind that none of these companies has been convicted at all. So if the government starts to say that all right, we obviously do not have a legal system in this country, nor do we want there to be any court orders, so now people are apparently already convicted in advance, I have to admit that I think it is a slippery path of format that is now beginning to emerge. That is why I think that, if we want to stick to these unpredicted inspections, we must at least be able to expect an answer as to whether a definition should be drawn up as to when they should be carried out. I did not get an answer to that at first, and I hope I can get an answer to that in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185642	I have to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that I did not say anything about the fact that there were companies convicted in this regard, and not even that the objections raised had been assessed. I just pointed out that it's a reputable, traditional company that's used to operating on this market, but still comes in conflict with some of these quite complicated rules that are. And there, as a society, we have an obligation to ensure that we help companies along the right path if they have forgotten the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185720	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020185736	I would have expected such a forest of good questions for the Socialist rapporteur. First of all, it is probably not too big a secret, according to what I asked the Socialist rapporteur, that we on the Left are very sceptical about the part of the element of the legislative proposal which deals with the unanticipated inspections. Of course, we fully agree that the rules must be complied with. We also fully agree that, in relation to the whole issue of dual use, it is of course important that the important defence industry we have, of course, also complies with the rules as there are, in order to ensure that their products are used well and fairly. However, it is still completely gone to shoot grey sparrows with cannons, when you are already apparently beginning to act as if there are Danish companies that have been convicted in this area, because there is no such thing. We are therefore talking about reputable huge Danish international companies, which have large countries and not least Allied countries as customers. So now we're starting to say, okay, we really don't care about that. And now we are starting to go completely against what all the organisations of interest, all the professional organisations are now beginning to shout about, namely that if we think anything about legal certainty in this Parliament, we cannot, of course, just start to introduce this supervisory body, which must run around, as they like, and snoop in all the different papers, without there being any basis for it. Therefore, it must also be a minimum that if and if the government wants to stick to this total break-up in relation to this reputable Danish industry, then it must also be expected that some firm guidelines will be drawn up as to when these unanticipated inspections will take place. We have not yet been able to get an answer to that. We are only told that this is true, for example. could be like that and stuff and stuff. So that is not good enough in a legal society. We have nothing to prove that there should be any Danish companies that do not want to cooperate with the Danish authorities. So to bring this up at all also seems complete, I'm sorry, I'm saying it, absurd, and so I expect the government to say: 1) We still want to have this industry with thousands of jobs in, or 2) we don't want it. If you want no. 1, it must also be expected that you will also go in and make rules that are understandable and that are not least in balance with reality, and that is what we are missing. I therefore hope that the government will listen to those who have really been out shouting in arms, and I hope at least that the government will be interested in engaging in dialogue with the parties of the Folketing about this, so that we can also have guidelines that can also work in relation to the fact that these many thousands of jobs are not going to disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190049	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. I do not see that anyone has signed up, so I assume that is not the case. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190109	The rapporteur before me, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, is famous for speaking aloud on a daily basis, but I had the impression that he spoke even louder here a moment ago, and perhaps it was also because the rapporteur felt provoked by the draft law put forward by the Minister for Industry. We actually feel that way in the Danish People's Party. We believe that it is absolutely appropriate that Danish companies that have activities that can or will or could be subject to dual use are subject to sound and valid control via the Danish Business Authority. After all, we have the export control rule, and we also have a large number of EU restrictions with regard to third countries, and these things are certainly by law, which means that, of course, we also have a large number of sanctions in those cases. This is sensible, says the Danish People's Party. We also think it is reasonable that more tools can be put in place in relation to the agency's options for action. But the suggestion made by the government that more than less carte blanche should be given to how, when and what you want to do when you go to private companies and require insight into internal affairs, the completion of forms, etc. is not sensible. without a court order. The crux of the matter is that we have a wide range of legal and constitutional rights, the purpose of which must of course be strengthened, and so will our constitution, but there must also be rules that apply to Danish companies. There we believe that this draft law, unless it is amended in the legislative text, is at odds with the premise of what might be right and reasonable, and it is precisely in relation to the desire that there should of course be sanctions against companies which are culpably, deliberately, overstepping legislation and, for example, exporting goods to third countries which are subject to embargos and all sorts of other things. We have also seen examples of this in other countries, especially in the arms industry and so on. We are mainly positive about putting more tools into the Danish Business Authority's toolbox, but not with the carte blanche, which is like being added to in the Minister's presentation. We alone will be involved in discussing this in cases where problems are repeatedly identified: creative approach, bypassing rules and other things. Then we would say that it makes sense to have a tool for those companies which have been able to prove that they have repeatedly violated the rules and customs which, of course, must be in relation to selling products which could be abused, too, against principles of international law. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party think that the minister owes a clear clarification of the purpose of this, so that you get fence stakes set up to ensure that you do not take action with large guns compared to hitting a small sparrow. That is, in fact, where we have a discrepancy in relation to the Minister's proposal. So the legal work in connection with the second and third readings and the committee work must lay the foundations for whether the Danish People's Party can support it. We would, of course, very much like to see things clarified and we would also like to ask committee questions where this is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190456	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190506	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I have also read the consultation answers to L 11 and I am very aware that it is a far-reaching power to be able to carry out unanticipated inspections. However, I also think that in this area there may be good reason to have the opportunity to carry out unheard-of inspections in the particular cases: if a company opposes inspections and they produce dual use products, then I see good reason for making these unheard-of visits where the checks can actually be carried out properly. However, I would also like to ask the Minister at the same time in particular the comment in the hearing from the Institute for Human Rights and their suggestion that the Danish Business Administration should make a humane assessment of the proposed restrictions on rights under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 72 of the Constitution. In other words, in relation to the fact that checks and inspections carried out by administrative authorities may constitute an infringement of the right to respect for privacy and home, and in relation to whether the Minister of Business considers that it has been properly investigated. I would also call for us to inform ourselves about the use of inspections if this bill goes through, after some time with the law, so that there will be an opportunity to look at the consequences of the legislative changes, both the positive and possibly the negative consequences. I hope the Minister for Business will sort this out a little bit. But all other things being equal, we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190648	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190652	Thank you. I assume that a social liberal party is very much concerned with legal certainty. And that is why I expect something too, when Mrs Katrine Robsøe is herself in and looking at what are some reasons for these unpredicted inspections. After all, we both took part in a technical briefing, and there I specifically asked what there are reasons why we should go in and carry out these unanticipated inspections. And there you are told: that could be the case, for example. I would like to make a few comments on this. be etc. It's not like putting up fence posts, like Mr. Knox. Kristian Skibby mentions. It is, of course, complete to give a carte blanche for an assessment by some people about when they want to do this. If and if we are to go in and carry out unpredicted inspections, is the Radical Left not in agreement that we must at least be able to create legal certainty by being able to set up proper fence posts? That is to say, when are these untimely inspections to be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190746	Thank you. We would very much like to discuss how we can make this bill better. I also note that we have some manufacturers of various things that can be used very dangerously. And I actually also think it's basically common sense that if these companies put up obstacles that you can do this control, then actually have the opportunity to go in and do a proper check anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190816	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190818	Well, I'll take that as a positive interpretation. For that is exactly what I have also asked the government to enter into a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing: how we can then at least put up these fence posts so that there will be complete transparency as to when the unanticipated inspections can take place. Can I interpret it as saying that this is what the Radical Left is also ready for in cooperation with other parties of the Folketing? In other words, we are entering into a dialogue with the government that we must now have this one hundred per cent transparency as to when it is that untimely inspections are to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190846	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190847	You can always interpret it in such a way that we would like to enter into dialogue with the other parties here in the Folketing. However, it is a complicated area and there are grey areas and there will be an assessment of when to do the various controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190901	Then no one else has asked to speak to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. I must stress once again, for the sake of good order, that we do not use the direct indictment in the Folketing. There are very special reasons for this: that is what ensures that we talk to each other properly. Then I shall give the floor to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, in that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF is not here. I do not know if Mrs Victoria Velasquez has a greeting from the SF, but time will tell. And otherwise we'll just switch around a little in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020190935	For us in the Enhedslisten, it is quite clear that this bill will strengthen the rules and professional supervision of companies such as arms manufacturers selling dual use products, including sanctioned dictatorships, which sometimes use them for military purposes, whether for warfare or for surveillance, and for the repression of domestic populations. We support the bill, which in recent times has been re-acquainted by the fact that Danwatch has revealed that the Danish arms manufacturer Terma sells advanced radar and navigation equipment to the Emirates warships. Terma has also previously sold self-protection equipment and missile defence systems to bombers operating in the civil war in Yemen. It is equipment that ensures that the Saudi-led bombing campaign in the poor country can operate risk-free; it is bombs that, according to a UN report, hit residential areas, markets, funerals, weddings, prisons, civilian boats and hospitals. It really should not shock, but it does mean that some Danish companies are contributing to what the UN calls the world's worst humanitarian crisis, where children are starving under a brutal blockade of impoverishment policy, whose simple terrorist logic is to inflict accidents on the civilian population in the hope that it will force its leader on the political course that the warring dictatorships want to see. That is why I also think it is high time that relevant companies were subject to inspections and random checks, since those companies' right to privacy must give way to respect for human rights and human life. This is serious. We also have an expectation that with risk assessment, prevention and all the parts that this option will be used, and we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191143	There are no comments to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191204	Thank you for the floor, and thank you very much! Then I should just like to promise that we will get started again and give the Danish authorities even more power, to overimplement in relation to existing EU laws and to whip up a mood based on matters of political and media attention. How many cases is it exactly? It will not be with conservative votes, because we are in complete agreement that fraud must be combated and that the Danish Business Authority must, of course, have the opportunity to control, especially with regard to industries that produce and export products that can be used as weapons, which, of course, the business community also supports in their consultation response. Verification visits can, of course, help optimize companies' efforts to comply with a quite complex set of rules, which is probably also the case in many cases. We cannot in any way support actions that are contrary to the Constitution, which give the right to untimely inspections without a warrant; that is what the Institute for Human Rights, Danish Lawyers, the Lawyers' Society and Justitia are responding to, of course, at the Justitia, which, incidentally, recently held a conference in this House with a focus on business rights. For it is of course violent when the authorities come on unannounced visits and may require full access to your business. That is why it must only happen if the problem is so great that it cannot be solved by other means. First of all, it raises the question of how big the problem is. The Minister justifies the bill by stating that in recent years there have been cases of political and media attention to Danish companies' compliance with the rules. It is not clear how many cases have been involved, but judging from the input that has come from the business community, it is a small handful of cases where there has even been no evidence that the company has deliberately infringed the rules. I hope that this proposal is not another in the series of laws that are only put into effect in order for the government to appear more capable of action. The second relevant question in this context is whether unanticipated verification visits make sense in this specific area. That is to say, will the companies be able to hide something from the authorities if they were notified of the verification visit? After all, the purpose of the verification visit is to verify whether the necessary authorisations have been obtained for the goods which a company has the Word does not have a here-and-now activity that can be taken into account. Verification visits also focus on checking the company's commercial documents, customer records, inventories, etc., as stated in the comments to the bill, i.e. records and data which cannot be disposed of or modified with a snap just if given notice of an inspection. The third relevant question is whether control is lacking today. The customs authorities can now check the specific goods exported by companies and the police can carry out searches at companies where there is a suspicion of breaches of the rules. The latter must be made through a warrant. When the authorities are given the opportunity, with this proposal, to carry out alerted inspections, it is difficult to see why they also need to be able to carry out unannounced inspections without this court order. And it is particularly surprising when it is also apparent from the bill that if there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence, the Danish Business Authority will not be able to use the facility for inspections without prior warning. In such a case, the case will have to be handed over to the police. In other words, the Business Administration will be given more intrusive access to the companies than the one that the police have but in relation to matters of a less serious nature than those where the police already have to intervene today. I don't think that's connected. The Conservative People's Party therefore wants, first of all, to get the part about the untimely visits, that is, the part about the untimely visits without a warrant, out of the bill, otherwise we will not be able to see ourselves in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191558	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191606	I am, by nature, well critical of giving the authorities more powers. I think that lies deep in my DNA and especially when you give some more powers, without there being another part of the division of power that keeps an eye on these things in the right way. And the fundamental question here is, of course, proportionality. As the draft law is here and has been cut down, I find it difficult to see the proportionality of it, and when I find it difficult to see the proportionality of something, I cannot vote in favour of giving the authorities more power and more powers outside a legal system, so we cannot support what it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191648	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191656	Thank you for the floor. It is clear that companies that produce dual use products must comply with the law, just as everyone else must comply with the law. So that's not what we're discussing when we're discussing Bill No. L 11. It is, as many other rapporteurs have said, the question of proportionality, i.e. whether it is proportionate that we should be able to go to early inspections and that no rules at all can be laid down which in any way enshrines it here. It goes far, far beyond the limits of what we can accept. We are as critical as a large number of the consultation responses that have been submitted and therefore we cannot support this bill unless, as a number of rapporteurs have said, there is a significant revision of the bill during the legislative process. Whether or not this will happen will come true, but in this form we will certainly not be able to vote in favour of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191759	Thank you. No one has been inscribed to the remarks made to Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020191809	Thank you. And thank you for the interest in the proposal and for the good debate in this Chamber, and also for the many good and relevant consultation answers that have entered the process. Let me try to start by clarifying the background to the draft law before I turn to the key points of the draft law. It is really important for the government that Danish companies do not export products or carry out other activities that are contrary to international rules. Especially because we are talking about products that can, in the worst case, be used for war crimes, development of weapons of mass destruction and violations of human rights. It can, for example, be done. be the export of equipment that can be used militarily and exacerbate humanitarian crises, as in Syria and Yemen. It may also include the export of equipment that can monitor a population's telecommunications and violate citizens' fundamental human rights. The scope for control in this area is now relatively limited, and there are, for example, a number of problems. it is not possible to carry out verification visits at the premises of the companies in order to ensure that the companies actually comply with the rules in this area. These are the challenges we are trying to meet through a change in this law of authority. The aim is to strengthen the control and supervision of companies that export these so-called dual-use products, i.e. products that can be used civilly, but also militaryly or which act in areas covered by EU sanctions. With the bill, we specifically propose that the Danish Business Authority be given the power to carry out notified as well as unannounced inspections at Danish companies with dual-use export activities, or which trade with third countries or territories subject to international sanctions. We also propose that the Danish Business Authority be given the opportunity to require all relevant information for the purposes of the control provided by the companies concerned. These changes will allow more effective control of Denmark's international obligations and strength, that companies also comply with the basic social contract, which is so important for Danish society. In addition to the fact that the bill will ensure that companies that do not comply with the rules will be held accountable, the draft law also provides the Danish Business Authority with better opportunities to provide companies with targeted guidance, because of course it also needs to do so when you want a better regulatory compliance. We are aware that verification visits are an intrusive approach to Danish companies, and we therefore also propose that the individual verification visits should be given prior notice to the company. It will therefore be the starting point that there will be forewarned inspections. For us, however, it is also important that the board can also obtain access to a company unannounced if the specific circumstances so require. This is true in situations where control will be in vain if the visit has been announced in advance. It can, for example, be done. be in situations where an undertaking refuses to participate in a notified inspection or where there is a strong suspicion that a company retains certain information for the Danish Business Administration. I would like to stress that the main objective of export controls and sanctions is that we do not contribute directly or indirectly to activities such as, among other things, agriculture. development of weapons of mass destruction, war crimes, violations of human rights or the like. This is obviously an important responsibility which Denmark cannot afford to neglect. Overall, this bill will improve the prevention and control of non-compliance with these rules. I would like to turn to some of the specific comments that have come first to my radical colleague Mrs Katrine Robsøe. I think it is obvious to follow up on what experience we are gathering with these new powers. So, what good or possibly bad experience is gained from carrying out the inspections that may appear? What do we learn from the use of counsel? Indeed, it may be that guidance efforts are in fact the really effective action that will enable us to achieve the objective of meeting our international commitments. So it should just be given as an undertaking that we will follow it up together. Several rapporteurs have then touched on the various responses to the hearings with critical voices, particularly in relation to the question of the untimely inspections. There has been some criticism of this and, as I said in my speech, we know that verification visits are an intrusive measure, and therefore, as a starting point, the inspections will also be announced, just as the selection of individual companies will of course be based on a sound professional risk assessment carried out by the Danish Business Authority. Inspections without prior warning will be carried out if special circumstances warrant it for example if an enterprise refuses access to the company in connection with a notified inspection or otherwise makes it difficult for a planned inspection to take place. Then concerns have also been expressed about the scope of information to which the Danish Business Authority can access. And there I just think it is important to remember that the intention is simply to enable the collection of relevant information and not to collect large amounts of material that have no relevance whatsoever to the Danish Business Authority's supervision. The information which can be immediately identified as relevant shall include, inter alia: commercial documents and records of customers and goods. Then the question of legal certainty has also been raised in the course of the debate. And there I would just like to say that compliance with the principles of the law on legal certainty, among other things. proportionality of the intervention and the right not to incriminate oneself is, of course, of central importance in the proposal, precisely in order not to harm the legal certainty of companies. The Business Administration, which will be responsible for these visits and supervision in this area, already has practical experience of similar supervisory powers in the field of money laundering, where inspections can also be carried out with and without warning. The approach to inspections that we are proposing here is therefore similar to that which the Danish Business Authority is currently conducting in the field of money laundering. So there is no provision for a control which is significantly different from the existing one in the field of money laundering. And in addition, I also feel the urge to mention this issue also because it was raised by the Conservative rapporteur, where it almost sounded as if Denmark went very, very far in relation to other countries • that I just think it is part of the debate that both Germany and Sweden have confirmed to the Danish Business Authority that they have a corresponding opportunity to go on inspections without warning. In this sense, therefore, there is no question of a single Danish side, although I think that during the course of the debate it sounded that way. So I think it should be my attempt to give the fallen remarks a few lines along the way. And, of course, I look forward to the committee reading, and we are always at the disposal of dialogue, which has always been wanted and, of course, will be very happy to respond to the questions that need to be clarified in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192717	That dialogue will then be allowed to start here appropriately. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192721	Yes, because it has not yet started, because I asked a specific question which I have still not received an answer to, namely whether the government was prepared to have complete transparency in relation to when these untimely inspections would take place. Then we get a list where you say, for example, etc. etc. That is exactly what the whole anchor is going on here, namely the question of whether you can go in and put some fence stakes on the fence when you want to do this violent operation with the untimely inspections. You repeatedly do not even want to answer the question, and I think that is the largest part of the arrogance. The second part of the arrogance is that you don't want to take it seriously in relation to this complete breach of the principle of legal certainty, because of course you have to know when this violent intervention is being made. That's why I'm just asking the minister once again because I'm a naive optimist by nature; my 15 years in the Folketing should have taught me that I shouldn't be, but I'm still trying: is the government prepared to enter into a dialogue with Parliament's parties on how we can set up these fence posts, so that this transparency comes in connection with the unpredicted inspections?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192828	As the President-in-Office says, the dialogue has just begun and I therefore welcome the opportunity to exchange views on this matter. Naiv optimist or not, so we should be able to have a good dialogue with each other, and I am probably there on this question, that I believe that the relevant and necessary fence posts have been set up in this case, because as a starting point we want to base our visits on an alert, and because we are basing ourselves on the professionalism behind the Danish Business Authority's risk assessment work, which is of course the most important fence post here, namely that you are not just going to get to a company on unnoticed visits, but of course you are laying the foundations for a genuine professionally founded risk assessment. These are relevant fence posts. In addition, I have mentioned what we think we are doing here in the area of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192936	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020192937	If that's a matter of course, sir. Minister, it should not take very long for the good people in the ministry to put it down on paper, so that it is 100 per cent clear, and not just say for example. and, for example, etc., but that it is specifically specified what the framework is within which these unanticipated inspections can be carried out. If that is a helping hand, I will welcome it very well, because that is exactly the dialogue that we in the Left also want to enter into afterwards. I would also like to say that this is also about Denmark's security policy, and this is an area where we usually get to the point where both blocks can make it together. That is why I would just like to say, as the rapporteur on foreign policy of the Left, that I also have the expectation that there are not just fine words to say that the old distinguished parties can find ground in this area and that I am at least ready to enter into a dialogue on it, and I hope the government is too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193037	We are ready to enter into a dialogue, but we just need to have the basis for the dialogue in place, because I think it can be difficult to land in the common position, to limit the business management's scope for action based on the professionalism they naturally take into account in their professional risk assessment. But from what I have indicated as the pillars, fence posts, or whatever we have called the underlying ones here, on the basis of the announced visits and the professional risk assessment, there is, of course, a basis for dialogue on a possible text of the report or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193115	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193118	Thank you, sir. President. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister seems to be opening a door a little tight, but I must admit that I do not think that the Minister fully and specifically responds to the question of precisely the desire for it to be cemented and described much more clearly in the law when it is going to be given this future power to the Danish Business Administration. What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that it should only be in those special cases where there has been a situation repeatedly and where it has just been found that it was not shown that it was willing to do so. I would just like the Minister to answer whether it is a legislative text that the Minister will ensure we have a proposal for an amended description of. Now we have been talking a lot about fence posts; some of us come out of the country. But that is what we need here, in other words, clarity about what the government really wants and how far they want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193223	Well, I come from the country myself, and in this respect, I know fence posts are really useful. But you have to be careful in relation to good animal welfare and other things that you don't put them too tight and tight on the field so you can't move. And I think that maybe that is what we are really circling here. We all need legal certainty, of course, to be intact for our companies. We also need to be able to see what kind of gangs surround these new powers. It is quite natural, and I think it is obvious to ask. I say, then, that on the other hand, of course, we must also be able to have effective supervision. We need to have an effective and strong Business Administration, because with this we want to ensure that we can assure the Danes that we live up to the international commitments we have. But in the two positions, I think we should see if we can have a joint draft report that we can look at together. I don't think we're that far apart when it comes down to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193327	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193328	Well, thank you for the answer. The minister comes from out there, where you have ground, as you call it. And I come from where we have clay soil. And that means that the fence posts are significantly better in clay soil than they do in flying soil. I hope that the Minister will repeat and confirm that this is actually how agriculture works in West Jutland and in East Jutland. The Minister also mentioned the reference to an example from Sweden and Germany that they have the Minister will explain what it is for any fence stakes whether it is in any case, specific cases or where there have been documented repeated cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193410	Up here, we're standing on a log. The Minister for Business Yes, that's right). In doing so, it is the task of managing speaking time, so I would ask the Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193420	There are limits to the squabbling. The Danish Business Authority has had contact with Germany and Sweden, which have confirmed to the Danish Authority that they have a similar opportunity to carry out inspections without warning. So it's just to say that it's not a very special one in Denmark. Then we will have to describe what I have also said in my speech to a common text, namely that a professional risk assessment is the basis, that the principles of legal certainty are, of course, guaranteed in what we are doing here, and that there is also good practical experience in the field of money laundering. I think we can get people to know that it's not like every other day that there's some sort of raid-like state in a company. That's not what's at stake here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193515	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193516	Thank you. Can the Minister confirm that the reason why there are severe restrictions on money laundering is that a great many cases have been identified? What is my point is that there is no evidence of a multitude of cases in relation to dual use. There is a marked difference, so congratulations to Sweden and Germany. It may be that they have had some other challenges than we have here. Can I have the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193542	We have, of course, had some very prominent examples in the field of money laundering, which would lead too far in relation to the number of speakers to start listing here, but we have also had examples here, and I think we have also had some trivial examples. At any rate, I think we are currently dealing with a very serious matter, which was also recently reported to the police, and that is why it is, I believe, a political task for us here in Things to be able to assure the Danish citizens that we are ensuring our authorities and supervision the right tools and tools, and to be able to assure the Danes that we are fulfilling our international obligations, especially in this dual use area, which is a difficult and complex area. But putting the tools in the toolbox is not the same as forcing people to use them. However, this gives us the opportunity to have a strong, preventive effect and effective control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193646	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez? I'm sorry. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193651	Thank you. There is no doubt that we are also concerned that we should behave properly and that we should, of course, try by no means to exploit a situation to sell weapons that are not appropriate. That's life, of course. But isn't the Minister judging a company in advance? And if we don't agree that when you have to make fence posts on this field, it's important that you don't put too much in the toolbox, which can also be used incorrectly, for example. I would also like to say that we are going to decide something here that will apply to all companies, and therefore, in some way, could be abused?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193731	I could never pretend that I was able to judge someone in advance never. But I note, and this is, I think, a relatively trivial observation, that we have been talking about a rather serious matter at present. I mean, all the time it's led to a police report, it makes it serious. Then the new powers are also about how much one trusts that the authorities are able to use them wisely and correctly, and I would just point out that the Danish Business Authority already has practical experience with precisely this kind of authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193810	I guess it's no surprise that it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193814	Thank you, President. We have a really topical example right now, but we don't have to look so far back. In 2017, too, we discussed this here in the Assembly Hall. Then it was the BBC that revealed a company in Nørre Sundby, and there are several other examples. So I just want to hear the Minister first in terms of ensuring that we have oversight of this. What does the Minister think this will mean for companies which have pure flour in their bags and which comply with the rules? Can it also be a security or a guarantee for them that they will not get caught up in the filth that some of the other companies are?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020193859	It is always good for the many, many people, by the way, the vast majority of Danish companies, who have the right in the pencil house, and who are able to understand that they do not violate the rules if the others also have to live up to the same thing. Of course. It is certainly a competitive advantage if there is effective enforcement of rules against those who keep theirs within the chalk lines. But may I not just say that this bill is about control. It's about new powers, powers. It is about new tools, but it is also about increased guidance and advice. In fact, we would prefer that our companies do not need to meet the Danish Business Administration in this tough control function, as it would be, but actually for guidance. I have the starting point that all Danish companies I have an interest in doing well and playing within the rules and earning good money, because it is in Denmark's interest, so the guidance part we have missed in the debate, but it is really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194007	Does Mrs Victoria Velasquez wish to speak? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194009	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister also elaborates on the preventive part. Then I just want to know whether the Minister will finally say what is in the risk assessment, because it may almost sound like there will just be unintended visits around the clock without any reason at all. So would the Minister not like to elaborate on what is in the risk assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194034	In fact, it is perhaps best that we ask the Danish Business Administration, as it is in this area of supervision itself, to tell us what they can do and about their risk assessment. However, when I mention it and emphasise it so many times, it is to say that if you are left with the impression that the fact that you can carry out untimely inspections will be used such a little poop about poop, that is far from the case, because we have a responsible, competent and skilful board of control that has appropriate supervision, and there will be a risk assessment of where it makes the most sense, if it makes any sense at all, to carry out untimely inspections.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194113	Then no one else has asked to speak to the Minister for Industry, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194149	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194154	Thank you for that, President. As the President mentioned, the bill here is about amending the auditor's law, and it is about changing the rules for the auditor's examination, tightening the requirements for auditors and implementing some EU rules. First of all, I would like to say that there is a desire in the industry to have more approved auditors trained, and precisely the examination form with the low pass rates has been mentioned as one of the barriers to attracting more students. In January of this year, the report presented proposals for a new Auditor's examination, and it is against this background that it is proposed to change the exam so that more will be able to pass without compromising the professional level. Secondly, the possibility of acting as an approved auditor is limited if a person is or has been subject to bankruptcy proceedings under the law of change. It is already a requirement to be approved as a state-approved accountant that one is not in the process of reconstruction or bankruptcy, and in future bankruptcy proceedings will therefore also be disqualifying. In concrete terms, it is proposed that approved auditors should be restricted in their professional activities, while for a number of years it will prevent persons from being approved as accountants if bankruptcy proceedings are imposed. Thirdly, it is proposed that an auditor should be able to refuse his approval, while a case for precisely refusing approval is pending in the Board of Auditors, and an auditor should not be able to continue his work without a position on the part of the Court of Justice, even if he has refused his approval of the Board of Auditors. The court has to decide on that. Fourthly, parts of the EU Auditor's Directive are implemented. The auditors can be regarded as representatives of public confidence, they bear a great responsibility for each of them to answer their taxes, that the money is right and that things are going well. It is an important and entrusted task that we as a society give to the auditors. The scandals we have seen in the banking world in recent years simply underline the importance of society having a competent and loyal body of trust representatives, which is why it is crucial that we can have confidence in the work of auditors, while at the same time avoiding the loss of accountants in the future. I would just like to say that I have a worthwhile hope that with this review we will also come up with a situation in which the first four pages of statements of account are not a write-off of responsibility, but it may well be that this is a discussion that we will have to discuss in committee and in debate with the Minister. However, we believe that the bill here will ensure the future of the approach to the auditor's profession, while at the same time giving us a better opportunity to crack down on the stumbled vessels, and that is what we in the Socialist Group think is sensible, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194526	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. We need to move forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194546	Thank you. The bill lays down a sensible direction for future accountants in Denmark. On the one hand, there is a lack of hands in the industry. On the other hand, it is shown that something needs to be done about the stinging vessels that destroy the reputation of the industry. Because, as the draft law proposes, one should not be able to represent public confidence if one is in bankruptcy and has a pending bankruptcy case. It's common sense. But to start with education and the auditors of the future: it is clear that something needs to be done about the present form of auditor's examination. The industry has been crying for several hands for many years. Therefore, it is no use that the exam is unnecessarily hassle for the students to get through. That's what the bill's gonna do. For us in the Left, it is that the change will increase the pass-on rate without compromising on professionalism. I hope that with the bill we will not only succeed in getting more students through so that they can get out and help in an industry that is lacking hands, but that the amendment of the law will also mean that more will apply to the auditor's programme. The current auditor's exam form is from 2014. At the time, it was also seen that there were problems with the pass-over rate, which was far too low. They tried to change that. I'm afraid it just didn't turn out to be a big deal. That is why I am in favour of changing the exam form once and for all, so that we can get more state-approved auditors through the exam in Denmark, as long as this happens, of course, without compromising the professional skills of the dimitters. The bill is two-part. On the one hand, it should make it more attractive to apply for admission to the auditor's training. On the other hand, the proposal also hits the industry's stumbled vessels. The proposal provides for the possibility of effectively preventing such stinging vessels from acting as accredited auditors while pending cases. Today, however, pending cases do not prevent one from keeping one's approval, and so one can still carry out one's auditor's work. It will be amended with the introduction of the law. The law will specifically provide for temporary disqualification of statutory auditors in the event of pending proceedings against them. However, the draft law must ensure that we do not compromise unnecessarily with legal certainty. We are completely sympathetic to the fact that you cannot be a public trust representative if you have a bankruptcy cartel case hanging over your head. It's logical. However, this is a sensitive matter of legal policy, since approval is withdrawn before a judgment has been handed down. We understand that this is necessary, but it is important that such matters are dealt with as soon as possible. That is why justice within four weeks is crucial for us in the Left to ensure the legality of the proposal. The Left also lacks a proper justification for proposing a five-year waiting period for auditors when the ordinary bankruptcy cartel is three years old. We in the Left support the proposal, as we see it as a clear strengthening of the country's auditors' activities in society, first and foremost by increasing the percentage of participation, at the same time as professionalism is at the top of the list, then because we promise to ensure that those who are not qualified as representatives of public confidence are quickly and effectively deprived of their approval. We believe that the proposal will promote the training of future professional and ethical auditors. At the same time, it will solve problems around the industry's few stumbled vessels.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194925	Thank you to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020194941	The aim of the proposed bill is to strengthen the requirements of an auditor as a public trust representative in companies and to change the rules for the auditor's examination of the public auditors, and then there is also a minor amendment to the statutory auditor's law in relation to the statutory auditor's directive from the European Union. This is the background to the draft law which the Minister of Industry is considering for the first time here in the Danish Parliament. In concrete terms, changes are proposed which limit the ability to act as an approved auditor and thus to act as a public representative if an auditor of the change of law is or has been subject to bankruptcy proceedings. The amendments also make it possible to temporarily disclaim an auditor's approval, while proceedings for the disqualification of the auditor's approval are pending before the Board of Auditors. And then there are the changes mentioned here in relation to the audit exams. At first sight, we are positive about those parts of it, and we would also like to contribute to raising the audit requirements and also to the background and ability of the auditors. However, there are some thistles in the draft law, and of course I think we also have reason to mention them here at first reading. That's one of them. A little something that the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. If you look at some of the hearing answers we have received, among other things. from the Danish Industry, we can see that it is proposed that, in cases where bankruptcy proceedings are convicted, an accountant will have 5 years on the bench, whereas those companies that have a so-called ordinary bankruptcy cartel have a quarantine of 3 years. There, we in the Danish People's Party miss the fact that there is a greater degree of transparency and that quarantine periods are treated in the same way. This seems to us to be a fairly good custom in relation to the two types of bankruptcy cartels, and we would, of course, like the Minister to respond and clarify to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, what are the reasons for two different waiting periods. In relation to bankruptcy cartels, it is true that if you look at the ordinary bankruptcy cartel, there is in fact a great deal of criticism in these days about the way in which it is practiced. I also know that the Minister has heard about this. It is true that today there are, in fact, some 4,500 people who have been sentenced to bankruptcy cartels, and of course there are also a great many who have really been in bad faith and who have gone in with care and willfully committed fraud and circumvention of rules, etc. But I just have to arrest the premise a little, because it is also in my view and in the view of the Danish People's Party that a great many of those who are going to have bankruptcy quarantines today have not actually acted in bad faith, but have actually done what they could to get the companies in question restored. For example, it is the case that you can be sentenced to bankruptcy if you enter as an investor in privately run companies, where it turns out that the company has for some time failed to settle VAT and a tax. It's a little funny, considering that many of these companies are companies that, of course, need extra funding. They're companies that are in crisis. That is why it is very normal; that is to say, in some of the companies, where other investors come in to buy ownership in the company, for example, to correct the ship, if you may say so, they do not come into bad faith. In fact, they come to rescue the undertaking concerned and the number of employees of the undertaking concerned. So now that we're doing it, sir. I also think, and this is what I would like to appeal to the Minister, that we should get a balance sheet on how the bankruptcy cartel practice is going with private companies, including bankruptcy cartels with the auditors concerned, as proposed by this draft law. Then I would like to say one more thing, and that is something that has puzzled me a little. It is that now that we have the statutory auditor's law for legal treatment, I am surprised that the Minister has not also completed his work in relation to a change in the duty to audit. For that is something to which several parties here in the Folketing have appealed, and we have also been negotiating for a long time that the duty of auditing should be changed. We need to bring in more companies and have a duty to audit again. We must have a handle on the very large illegal ownership loans that are in private companies, for example, who do not think it is very fun to present their accounts to an independent accountant or to an accountant at all. So how's it going? I think it would be nice if, when the Minister comes up later, we also got a status on it and were told why the duty to audit was not included in this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195503	Thank you. No comments have been made, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195513	Thank you for that and thank you for the speeches and, of course, for the fine reviews made by the previous speakers. I do not have much to add, but I would like to say that for us it is also very important that the examination for the auditor's education is changed, but so that, of course, we still ensure the high quality. It is extremely important that we have confidence in our auditors, and I believe that the draft law is a fine change in order to maintain that confidence and therefore supports the Radical Bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195547	Thank you to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Then it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, as the SF does not have a representative present.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195556	Thank you. The Enhedslisten welcomes the fact that the government will limit the possibility of who can act as an approved accountant. In view of the fact that an accountant is a little like a public trust representative, if you are going to put it in a way that for me is at least very fine, it is of course important that the profession enjoys public confidence, and therefore it is also good to be able to be deprived of the opportunity to act as an approved auditor if, for example, you are able to do so. are subject to bankruptcy proceedings under the law of a change of law or to proceedings pending before the Board of Auditors for its approval. As far as public confidence is concerned, we also welcome the fact that the audit examination will be revised in order to strengthen the quality of candidates. As far as the legislative proposal as a whole is concerned, we support the stricter requirements for who can become an accountant, the requirements for state authorisation, so we will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195652	Thank you. Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195659	Thank you for the floor. This bill may be about revision, but it is about three very different elements: something about stricter requirements, something about exams and something about the European Commission's control. I shall concentrate here on the first two. The part dealing with stricter requirements has the absolute best intentions. It is always a good idea to strengthen confidence in the accounting profession and ensure that the stray vessels, as they have also been called from up here, are sorted out quickly and efficiently. Such stinging vessels are the last thing the industry and business need. On the other hand, it would be beneficial if we could protect the title as an accountant better. We have been talking about this for many years now. I have certainly done so, and now that we have the subject, we have to make sure of it. I miss that in the proposal, and I would like to call on the Minister to come up with possible solutions to that part too. I would also like to point out that some of the proposals are perhaps a little too harsh. The rules for bankruptcy cartels are already very strict, and the consequences for the person concerned are, of course, that you are prevented from operating your business. That in itself is the ultimate punishment; when this can also happen without the authorities having the obligation to obtain all relevant information, I think it is going too far. Just as several organisations point out in the consultation answers, of course legal certainty must apply to everyone. The intention behind the part about strengthening the approach to the auditor's profession is certainly also real and fine. It is important to listen to the industry's need for more trained auditors and to the work of the exam committee. And I will not deny that I am now going to sound overwhelmingly old-fashioned, but to give access to an infinite number of exams, examination attempts, in 7 years, simply does not strengthen confidence, and I doubt that it raises the quality. I think that's fucked up. I have noted that it is believed that everything will increase flexibility and that it will even slightly regulate itself. And then it is even pointed out that there will then also be less administration with the approval of re-examinations. Well, honestly, there's gonna be an extra amount of administration with everything else, and that's where I think the party's gonna end. We can also set up an automatic machine, and then students can draw a diploma. Could we not find a solution that ensures more audited auditors, which we also trust in the quality of? Conservatives look forward to the work of the committee and very much hope that with these few amendments we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195918	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195923	In fact, I think there have been a number of good comments from the Chamber. It's nice that we can meet around it. And there are some good intentions in the bill, so we can't get the small things fixed together, which people think should be changed. Maybe some quarantine, so we hit those who need to be hit extra hard, and then maybe tighten up a little bit on the other thing and something like that. I think we can agree on that, so it is positive things from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020195947	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200000	Thank you for the floor. With Bill No. L 13 is, of course, as with all other legislative proposals, that there are good and bad things in it. A five-year bankruptcy limit is a very good idea. Perhaps we could use that in this house once in a while, so that is something that is future in, you might say. I would say that we have been working very hard on politically fixed dumping limits in the field of education, where I have been rapporteur for many years, and I have to say that we should be a little sceptical about that. We have had them both in high schools and in universities, and it has not been so good. However, it is all in all some changes that are demanded by the industry, and although one has such a metaphor for accounting as ethical accounts, etc., there are also some accounts that must actually go up, and these are the ones that accountants work with. And when they demand these changes, of course, that's something we can back up. So there's support for Bill No. L 13 from here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200111	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200120	Thank you. And thank you for the fallen and positive remarks and expressions. After all, the legislative proposal we are discussing here is intended to strengthen the requirements of auditors, such as what they are, namely the representatives of public confidence, and to change the rules governing the auditor's examination of state-authorized auditors. And I am pleased to note that the draft law has also received a very positive and fine reception overall during the public hearing, including by the professional organisations. It is, of course, the alpha and the omega that we can trust the auditors as representatives of public confidence. They must ensure and maintain confidence in the financial information on which our economy is based. It cannot therefore be right for an accountant, for example. may act as a representative of the public's confidence if he or she is or has been subject to bankruptcy proceedings where he or she has been assessed unfit to take part in the management of a business because of grossly indefensible business conduct. The draft law therefore limits the possibility of acting as an approved accountant and thus acting as a public trust representative if a person is or has been subject to bankruptcy proceedings under the law of change. Unfortunately, we have examples of auditors continuing their activities as an accountant in judicial proceedings against the Board of Auditors and, in some cases, even training the case before the courts. We must have stopped an accountant from working for a long time if the person in question has seriously violated the rules and the Board of Auditors has therefore withdrawn the auditor's approval. The statutory auditor's board will therefore have the opportunity, with the bill we are discussing here, to temporarily dismiss the statutory auditor's approval, while a disqualification case is pending at the board. At the same time, in the future, the court will have to decide whether an auditor who has been dismissed as an auditor of the Board of Auditors may continue to operate while the case is pending before the courts. In practice, this means that if you have been deprived of your auditor's approval, you cannot speculate about appealing and withdrawing the decision while acting as an approved auditor. When you are a public trust representative, you have very special tasks and have to have very specific competences at a high professional level, and therefore the new rules on the audit examination will help to ensure that the public can continue to have confidence that the presentation of statements by auditors reflects a high quality. In particular, the change consists of the change in the structure of the exams, with three written modules, i.e. samples, being replaced by one written sample, which is held over two days. At the same time, the emphasis is placed more on the auditor's core tasks, namely the submission of statements, for example. for the annual accounts of undertakings. That should actually be what I wanted to say about the fallen remarks. I would just like to make one comment on Hans Kristian Skibby's question about the accountability and audit issue. Unfortunately, this is still a topical political issue and the government intends to convene political negotiations, and we will convene them this year so that we can start a political process on it. But the reason why it is not part of the proposal here is not that there is still a political desire to do something about it. I think we share the ambition and therefore there will be political negotiations on that subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200536	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200540	Thank you and thank you for your reply. In his ministerial speech, however, the Minister did not address the question of the period of bankruptcy. This bill proposes that there should be a five-year period, whereas in the ordinary bankruptcy quarantine alone there is a three-year period. There I think that is at least what we asked in connection with the legal proceedings... that the Minister should tell us a little about the reasons why there should be a waiting period of two years more in relation to committing this kind of illegal activity than there are in relation to those for which one is convicted after the ordinary bankruptcy cartel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200623	Thank you. We shall also continue to delve into the work of the committee. Under the Bankruptcy Act, a bankruptcy cartel may be imposed on a person who has taken part in the management of the bankrupt undertaking if the person concerned is unfit to take part in the management of a business because of gross negligence. A bankruptcy cartel is imposed in the general rule for three years, which means that the person concerned is not allowed to take part in the management of an economic activity without personally and unlimited liability for the undertaking's obligations. An auditor is a public trust representative, and that is why I do not think it would be justifiable if, on the day following the end of the quarantine, the annual accounts could be endorsed immediately. That is why we propose that he or she can only start making statements again on an annual report after five years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200728	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200733	I asked for the floor a little late, but it was because I was hoping that the Minister would reply at the end. He didn't. I thought it was a nonsense, to be honest, sir. Minister. So, I wonder what the reason is for the difference in the two waiting periods, and then the Minister says that in the five years it is because, if you do one, you can move on to the other. On the other hand, if what the Minister is defending were to be the logic, then it could also be said that an ordinary trader or a board member of a listed company, for example, the day after the three years have passed, can start new and creative business models and experiments. Then, if that was the argument, you could also choose to set it up to 5 years there. I'm not talking about that. I'm just saying there's a transparency in these two types of periods.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200829	I understand that, too. But the fact that there is transparency and that one can understand and see the difference does not have to be so to understand that then the partout also has to be the same period. I believe, as I say, that this matter of being a representative of public confidence is something very special, and there is a great responsibility. The auditors in Denmark are deeply aware of this and they are incredibly skilled. But where there are stingy vessels that have been grossly recklessly guilty of these conditions, I think that five years is appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200906	Then no one else has asked for the floor. We thank the Minister for Industry. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next two draft laws have been tabled by the Minister for Health and the Elderly, but since it is the case that the Minister for Health and the Elderly is waiting for a response to a coronatest, with the agreement of all the parties, as I have been informed, permission has been given for the Minister for Employment to fill in these draft legislations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020200920	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201008	It is a great day today, and it is a historic legislative proposal that we are dealing with here, which, if and when we hopefully get it adopted, we will not get it adopted today, but we will have the ground explored, in terms of whether there is support for it, but there should be an important step in the fight against smoking among children and young people and, at the same time, an important step in combating inequality in health. Almost 14,000 Danes die every year as a result of smoking, and many more suffer a reduced quality of life because they live with the consequences of many years of smoking. Smoking is also one of the major causes of inequality in health, and if we are to ensure more Danes a longer life with more healthy years of life, we cannot escape the fact that fewer Danes have to start on dangerous tobacco. If we are to change developments, it is especially among the very young that we have to take action, because we know that four out of five smokers started before they were 18, that is, before buying tobacco was legal. Unfortunately, in recent years it has gone the wrong way. After a long period of falling smoking, we have, unfortunately, seen a worrying increase in the proportion of children and young people starting to smoke in recent years, and this requires action and it calls for political action. With the bill here we ban smoking where children and young people spend most of their day, namely in the education system. In both primary and secondary schools, smoking should not only be stopped on the matrimony, but we also introduce smoke-free school hours. So it's also time to go down to the bakery in the recess and pulsate under the half roof. As a student in the Danish primary school or as a student in a youth education, smoking should not be part of normal daily life. Furthermore, with the bill here, we also demand that tobacco be hidden in the store and that cigarette packs be made neutral, so that you do not have to meet with inviting and fashionable and colorful cigarette packages with designer logos when you enter the supermarket or are queued at the box. It is all to ensure that the generations of young people of the future grow up with tobacco to a much lesser extent than was the case for my own generation, for example. Tobacco is deadly, and it should not be a natural part of a youth culture, and it should not be an entry ticket to being part of a youth community. So there's a lot of support from the Social Democratic Party for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201300	Thank you. Two comments have been entered for the time being. The first is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201309	Thank you very much. When the rapporteur says that more children start smoking, I would like to hear: what age group is the rapporteur calling children? And then I would like to hear: if you are now making a national action plan for children and young people, why should you hit all sorts of other people who are actually over 18 years old? Well, today you're an adult, you're an adult, you're an adult, you're an 18-year-old. You can be trained as a soldier, you can be sent to war, you can be shot at, and you can shoot others. But we must not decide whether or not we should be allowed to smoke. So I would like to hear: why do you have to hit everyone else with the bill, and what are children when we talk about them and their smoking frequency?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201357	The main focus is on ensuring children and young people under 18 years of age and then you have to assess when you go from being a child to being a young person, whether it is at 15 years or 16 years of age or what it is, as we know, illegal to buy tobacco. At the same time, however, we know very well, each and every one of us, that this is happening and that there can hardly be a place where a minor will not be able to buy tobacco without difficulty, because the law we have is clearly not being respected and respected and we do not have the tools to go after those who break the law. The focus is primarily on them, but it is clear that all those that we can get to stop smoking will be a gain, both for those who stop smoking and also for society. But the primary focus and the main interest is to ensure that children and young people do not start with the toxic smoke at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201504	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201506	Now it was because the rapporteur himself said that the figure for children had increased. I believe that when you talk about 15-16s, it is young people. I do not quite know whether the rapporteur will go out and say to the 15- to 16-year-olds that they are children. So that's just what I came across. But I would also like to hear when all sorts of others are affected, and when you've put everything together in this plan, why, when we talk about smoking, you want to ban snuff and e-cigarettes. You want to ban snuff that does not contain tobacco, you want to ban e-cigarettes that do not contain nicotine. What's the sense in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201546	The reason is that we know that nicotine is generally dangerous, that these tobacco products are generally dangerous. We also know that one can lead to another, that one can start with one tobacco product and then move on to the next. So we have to, if we want to fight tobacco, want to fight smoking, want to fight nicotine among children and young people, to hit widely. And there was my time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201621	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201624	Well, statistics are usually never linear. If there has been a fall followed by a standstill, and then there is a small jump, and then it falls a little again, or if, according to the latest figures, there is no increase, what is the position of the Social Democratic Party? Are we still going to impose more restrictions on these things, or are we going to be satisfied with those that have been made, or are we going to roll them back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201656	We still have to put in place the restrictions that will be laid down with the legislative proposal, if that is what the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party is asking. I cannot quite understand whether further restrictions are being asked. But that is not what has been proposed here. But whether we can see that things are going a little down or up, this is what we are setting out to do, this is what we have made a political agreement on, this is what is supported by, and this is what not only the government but also a large majority of Parliament's parties believe will help to ensure that in the future fewer people will die of dangerous smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201739	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201741	Yes, but that agreement is also based on some data that say that there has been an increase in the number of young people who smoke. If reality turns out to be something else next year, it's a new situation, or if it turns out to be something else here, but we'll see. I would really like to ask, because now they are saying that this is deadly and that there are almost 14 000 people dying: is it the position of the Social Democrats that it is okay, or should we not ban smoking? Then there's 14,000 less people dying. Right now, we have put the world and society in a position to stand for 600-700 people because of a corona virus. What about these 14,000 people who die? Is it okay that 14,000 die in Denmark? Why is smoking not banned? Will the Social Democrats take the lead in banning smoking in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201826	We do not want to ban tobacco, we do not want to ban smoking. Even if we know very well that it has serious human and socio-economic and health consequences, we do not want to ban it. We want it to be legal and that it should be an opportunity for adults, well-thought out people to be able to smoke if that is what you want. At the same time, however, we are not blind to the fact that, with the figures I mentioned here, four out of five start before they grow up, and those who have become acquainted with tobacco know very well how terribly addictive it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201911	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020201920	Thank you, President. Smoking is a huge public health problem. I guess it's the biggest killer in Denmark, except for old age. Smoking causes just a small 14,000 additional deaths, if you like, per year among ex-smokers and smokers. And, of course, we all have to die at some point, but when it relates to smoking, it is too early to die. Smoking increases the risk of more than 15 different types of cancer, and over the coming years the number of citizens with lung disease is likely to increase significantly if we do not take action. Among other things: Against this background, the Left is behind the ambitious goal of getting Denmark's first smoke-free generation, and it must be by 2030 - yes, in fact, we have gone to the polls on that ambition. When we were last in government, we also focused on preventing children and young people from taking over the bad habits of their parents, and therefore smoking is one of the areas in which we believe that prevention efforts should be strengthened. After all, the draft law before us gives effect to the agreement on a national action plan against children and young people's smoking, which has been endorsed by a large majority of Parliament's parties. The action plan and the legislative proposal are also an important step on the road to the national vision we share of a smoke-free generation in just 10 years' time. So this bill has to be seen as an outstretched hand for young people, for their parents and for educational institutions. Because, on the one hand, it is indeed the responsibility of the individual to smoke, including whether to start smoking or whether to end smoking, but, on the other hand, in my view and in our view, when dealing with such a serious and addictive killer as smoking and tobacco, we must also create incentives that will not exactly motivate the individual child and young people into a life that smokes. So both the action plan and the concrete implementation through this bill contain a number of elements to prevent children and young people from moving into the universe of smoking, each of which complements each other very well. The draft law proposes that tobacco products should no longer be visible to consumers at points of sale, including on the Internet, until a customer requests them. We will have the cigarette packets neutraled in their design. We are tightening up the ban on advertising in all forms, both direct and indirect advertising. We also propose a smoke-free school time for pupils in primary, boarding schools, post-schools and upper secondary education, who have taken up children and young people under the age of 18, and a number of other elements. In the Left, we agree that the actual action plan and the law coming out of the action plan that we have adopted have given and will continue to give rise to discussion. On the one hand, there is the whole fundamental discussion about the need for individual exercise, including into the universe of smoking, and on the other hand there is the relationship between the various products: is something more dangerous than anything else, and is it not a very good idea that you, for example, should be able to do so? can jump from cigarettes to some of the other products in the tobacco and nicotine universe? And we fully recognise that these discussions are there and that they will continue to be there, but I would also just like to say that we have made a choice in our party: we will make every effort to limit children and young people's way into a smoking life and in a life dependent on nicotine, and in that effort we also lean on expert advice in relation to the choice of means of action. The choice we have made in the Left also leads me to conclude that we naturally support this bill. So just to conclude: the law is a little late, and I think we can agree with each other that it is not all due to covid-19, that is, there was also something about a notification process in the EU system and something that dragged out a little, and some that had forgotten etc. In any case, things have been delayed. That is why my message to the government and to the acting Minister for Health is that, although we want the bill to be adopted and the law implemented as quickly as possible, we also want it to be done in a proper way, and that will also be reflected in our work in committee, where we have a number of questions about things we would like to see drilled out. There are a number of uncertainties in relation to transitional arrangements for companies and other corners of the legislative proposal, which we think should be followed all the way to the end, Mr President. President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202506	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202508	It must not be more expensive to be a Dane. I do not know if there is a bell ringing from the rapporteur, but otherwise I can reveal here that it is the slogan of the Left. May I not recommend that you may make a hyphen and then put something behind it, for example. Unless it's something the Left would like. It seems that this is the new approach, that is to say it must be more expensive, that you must put more taxes on people and that planned economic and behavioural taxes must increase as long as it is something that the Left would like. This is done in relation to cigarettes because it is believed that the purpose is so great that it can be defended because smoking kills many people. Then I would like to ask about the sugar levy. Is it allowed to rise for the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202556	Well, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen knows very well that it has nothing to do with this bill, but I would like to reply, because Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen makes it look as if we have come to cheat the voters, that is, that the tax increase compared to cigarettes is something we have just come up with. I just have to say that we went to the polls. Well, we haven't done anything to anyone. We voted that we wanted cigarettes to rise in price, and we voted that we should have a plan for action against children and young people's smoking, including smoking. contained some of the elements that we see reflected in the bill we are discussing here. So there's nothing new under the sun at all, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202640	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202641	No, but now I'm not the one with the slogan, it's the Left who's got that slogan. That is why we should perhaps have made it a condition that other taxes should be reduced, otherwise it will be more expensive to be a Dane. When I ask about sugar, it is of course because obesity is also a major killer, and then it might well be that there was the same logic on the part of the Left in that we may then put up the sugar levy or the fat tax or some other taxes, because it will help public health. That's why I'm asking about it. And you're a health rapporteur, so I assume it's in a resort where you can answer these things. That's why I'm wondering what we're looking into. Because when I say this is where you raised it, it's not the only place. The last session also agreed to raise a bank tax on hybrid capital, and there were some increased registration fees on second-hand cars, so there are a large number of areas where the Left has raised taxes. That is why I am asking about the health rapporteur's area: what about the sugar levy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202730	There will soon be a tax on time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202734	In fact, I am very grateful that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen cares so much about what the Left is saying. But listen to me, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen: There is nothing new under the sun as regards the issue of taxes on cigarettes. We said before the parliamentary elections that we wanted a tax increase on cigarettes, because it would be more expensive to smoke in a prevention context we proposed it. And that is also what is reflected in the way we act in the Assembly after a parliamentary election. So there's nothing new.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202812	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202816	Left went to the election to let the price rise on cigarettes. Why the hell should all the other things enter e-cigarettes, which many people use to stop smoking cigarettes, and snuff and chewing tobacco, which is also used to avoid smoking as one of the most dangerous things the rapporteur was talking about? Well, I wonder why the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, goes as far as it does the Left, who has always held hands with business in terms of extra fees and costs. Now there are over 7,000 small shops that have had signs up for a year and a half, as it is in fact the Danish Health Authority that has made for them and which have been bought and paid for. They need to be demolished now, and some other posters, pictures, etc. must be set up. In other words, where is the policy of the Left to help business and ensure that the small ones do not close because they are now being taken away from sales? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020202925	I agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that there are some things about the situation of companies in the transitional regime here that we need to have drilled out in committee. I hope Mrs Liselott Blixt will help me with that, because I think that is quite appropriate. And then, in my rapporteur's speech, I recognise the dilemma in this. Because it is true that there are some people who are asking: why are you doing this, because we, as former smokers, are increasing on some of the other products? However, I also think that when expertise recommends that you should not have the opportunity in an e-cigarette shop to be able to sell e-cigarette fluid with a taste of bubblegum or cake, and what else has been there, it is a reasonable recommendation, because those things can really lead someone into a smoking career, which I suppose none of us really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203023	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203025	Now the Left will see that instead of experimenting with flavourings that can be far more dangerous. There is something in the text itself that I would like to hear from the rapporteur. It is clear from the agreement that all tobacco products, e-cigarettes and nicotine products must be hidden at all outlets, including on the Internet, until a customer specifically requests them. Is the Left still sticking to the agreement that sounds like that text?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203053	Yeah, well, we sort of stick to the agreement that we have made with part of the Danish Parliament's parties. However, I agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that there are some things that we need to drill out in relation to the coinage. It acts among other things. on transitional arrangements, and there may also be other points where there are disagreements between what is in the legislative text and what is in the political agreement. I really hope that Mrs Liselott Blixt will help me drill, and I am sure she will.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203122	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. And then Mrs Liselott Blixt must start the Hayabusa and come up here on the platform to give a rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203130	Thank you. That makes two of us ride together. Look to Norway, we have been told repeatedly in recent years. Check Norway, 'cause that's where they're doing the right thing. They hide the packages, they make them uniform, and that makes young people stay far away from them. When we were going to deal with this proposal, I thought I would rather ask the Minister this question: what is the situation with nicotine users in Sweden, Norway and Denmark? I got an answer on August 20th, and I've calculated the numbers on such a flap paper here. I can reveal that Norway is at the forefront of 46 percent. nicotine users and 19 per cent. Smokers, whereas Denmark is 28 per cent. nicotine users and 20%. Smokers. That's 1%. Something more that smokes. I know that I have put those who smoke daily with those who smoke occasionally, but these figures say exactly the opposite of what everyone else says, that is to say science and other wise heads, to which reference is made. According to the Danish People's Party, this is not part of a national plan to prevent children and young people from smoking, because this concerns not only children and young people but also, to a large extent, adult people who have chosen what is their own quality of life. We were in the negotiations for a long time, when the efforts that were to be made were being reviewed, and we would have liked to have helped prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. However, many of the proposals on which agreement has been reached cause a lot of inconvenience for many others, and they do not just focus on young people. At the same time, there is no clear logic in cutting all nicotine products over a comb, not at all when you know that, for example, e-cigarettes have helped many away from ordinary cigarettes, away from a high nicotine intake. In fact, a lot of people are now smoking e-cigarettes without nicotine, but now the flavors must also be gone. In fact, they must not put anything in their mouths at all, and that is simply illogical. At the same time, we mainly hit those who are over 18 years of age. When we look at the group, it includes the 16-24-year-olds, and that is where we have changed it. A few years ago it included the 11-18-year-olds, but when the 11-13-year-olds stopped smoking and the young people actually got older when they started smoking cigarettes, they also changed the group to compare how it went. So it is easy to say that it has increased if you compare it with some quite different numbers. So it's very remarkable. In the Danish People's Party we emphasized that we would have liked to have seen some more teaching. In fact, there is evidence that this is training the children at school, allowing them to take responsibility for their own health and avoid peer pressure and thus gain a greater knowledge of it actually did something. Germany was the last country to have an education in it in schools. The problem now is that we are sending smokers and, therefore, young people into the arms of the criminals who have now been given a new sale product in the form of cigarettes, which is much more unhealthy than those who were in the past. In several closed facebook groups it pops up with posters about cheap cigarettes so cheap that there is no doubt that it is illegal. Often the offers are supplemented by pictures of hundreds of cigarette packages, and it says, for example:: Prince in Danish wrapping for 250 DKK. per carton, can become cheaper when buying ten cartons. The criminals have been given a new opportunity to earn money, and you share that with them. You are helping to get cigarettes that are filled with many other drugs than exactly the ones you knew about and that were regulated. Nor do we yet know what the consequences will be for those pupils who break the smoke-free school-time rule. I'd like to hear the different people about that, because it doesn't say anything about that. It's up to the individual school. But we can throw them all out of school, and then we have an "A" team and a "B" team. Apparently, no one wants to know about them on the B team. One does not want to have them in one's education because they may have some problems that are bigger than the fact that they cannot just stop smoking while they go there. I went to see drug addicts yesterday. Well, we're giving them prescribed heroin. Now they have to start being criminals to get money for cigarettes. It's a completely wrong direction we're going in. This leads to a social imbalance. There are people who cannot afford to buy healthy diets because they have to buy their cigarettes. Then it's so easy because sometimes you say it's really easy to quit smoking: you can just stop, and that's what you do when the price rises and the cigarettes get hidden away and the packages become the same. That's when you stop. What, then, is it that makes those who have the least money many times are the ones who smoke? Maybe it's because they use it as a crutch to lean on. And that's what you do worse today. I am sorry, on their behalf, that no alternatives have been found to the plan before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203704	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020203729	Thank you. I have been looking forward to standing here today because this is a very important legislative proposal. We have rightly talked a great deal about inequality in health, and smoking is not going to get around this. This is probably the biggest single factor when we look at the difference in life expectancy in the Danish population. The burden of smoking is enormous and about one in three deaths can be related to smoking. This amounts to just under 14,000 deaths a year. At the same time, unfortunately, we can see that 40 young people start smoking every day. As health politicians, we have a responsibility to make up for this development. We have already adopted a tax increase which is an important step on the road to a smoke-free generation. But that is not enough. And that is why in December last year a broad majority of Parliament's parties made an ambitious plan for action against smoking by children and young people. It will then become a reality now, and I look forward to it. For that is why it is high time for the measures that are being presented today. Sponsorship and both direct and indirect advertising are being promoted. There is no more tobacco in the shops; they must be stored away. At the same time, we are doing away with those who have used the price tags to make de facto advertising for their products. Now, information on prices must be done in a neutral way that does not mislead young people into thinking that there is anything positive about smoking, because there is no such thing. And we also do away with the branding that can lie in specific cigarette brands. Soon all cigarettes will have to be sold in neutral packages so that you cannot be lured as easily by idols and other people as you look up to as a young person. It is necessary to think very broadly here, precisely because, as I said, the industry is very creative, if I may say so in a positive way. During the discussions on the action plan, I mentioned several times the possibility of looking at making cigarettes themselves neutral. I also mentioned that one should look at the possibility of making the packages inside neutral so that it cannot be used for marketing, and I would also like to make sure that this is covered by the bill. Because we can be absolutely sure that the industry is taking advantage of any opening up to influence possible new consumers. We can also see this in the exploitation of some of the tobacco products which are not regulated to the same extent as cigarettes. For example: You can now buy cigarillos in the same size as cigarettes • some of them even with a built - in menthol flavor in the filter. And that's smart... a little too smart. However, this illustrates very well the creative cynicism that is in the industry all to create new nicotine-dependent customers and maintain those already lured on board. I would also like to know if there is any way to include this in the draft law. Since the main focus is on children and young people, I am also very pleased with the measures taken to ensure smoke-free educational institutions throughout the country. This is a very important step towards a smoke-free generation. In the Radical Left, we look forward to making the action plan a reality and, of course, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204103	Thank you. Now I know that the rapporteur has done a lot of research, and I also hope that the rapporteur has researched the most recent figures, for how many people use nicotine in Norway, which has been the pioneer country to which all researchers have looked and thought they should do the same as because it worked there. I would like to know what the rapporteur's position is on the most recent figures showing how many people use nicotine and smoke in Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204134	Once I've looked at the data, I've looked at all the countries in the world from which we have data. And it is clear, as I think Mr. Martin Geertsen also said that any of these measures in the plan is not enough in itself; that is the overall effect we have to look at. It is also true, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says, that much of this is not so much data yet. These are new measures. Neutral packages, for example, are something that hasn't been used so much yet. But you can see effects, and we need to look at the overall impact of all the actions we have in the package here. It is also true, as the rapporteur will say, that some nicotine products are less harmful than others. That is absolutely correct. It does not change the fact that nicotine is highly addictive, and as soon as you become addicted, it is very difficult to release again, and the risk that you start on something worse is present and we need to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204215	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204217	But now it is Norway that has been visited for many years before the rapporteur came to Parliament. I have been sitting as a health rapporteur for a long time and have always had to deal with Norway, which is hiding away the packages that make them uniform, which allowed the price to rise. Yet there are 19 per cent. Smokers where we're 20%.; and there are 46 per cent. nicotine users because they use a lot of snuff where there is only 28%. Here. Doesn't that say a little bit? What will the rapporteur say if we stand here in a year's time and new figures show that consumption has actually increased in Denmark? Are we going to make even more stringent restrictions? Or will you realise that prohibition is not the way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204303	I am always open to discussion about further restrictions, if that is what Mrs Liselott Blixt is calling for, just as I would also like to see increased price increases if that is what the rapporteur is proposing. So we can meet about that. But if we stand here in a year's time and the figures are not what we expect, then we have to look at it and see if we have to take further steps. I'm sure that'll surprise me. I think we should look more closely at what it is that Norway does not find that problematic for them, and we should certainly not be inspired by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204331	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204334	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the price increases, because I have heard about price increases of DKK 70. I've heard somebody talk about. Does the rapporteur recognise the negative externalities that this entails, i.e. increased imports of illegal cigarettes, increased cross-border trade, lack of money in the Treasury due to less sales of cigarettes and everything else, which has an impact on how much money we can spend on other health care matters? Is there a limit where the rapporteur believes that the tax can stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204413	It is clear that an increase in taxation will of course have an effect on cross-border trade. After all, we have made the Ministry of Taxation count on that for us throughout this process, as the rapporteur knows very well. And finding the right crack there is one of the things we need input for; I fully acknowledge that. However, when the rapporteur says that we will be short of money if we set the tax too high, I would say that I would rather save the lives involved here. I think that's more important. If the goal is for us to have good life in Denmark, then after all it must require people to be alive before we can give them good life. And there we have to say that the 14 000 deaths a year are also worth taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204444	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204446	Yeah, and then it'll be a little too totalitarian for my taste. Because I do not think it should be up to the rapporteur to define the good life of those who choose to smoke. And that is what you take care of yourself by saying that people will have a good life if they do not smoke and that is what the rapporteur decides. Now I asked the rapporteur of the Left about other taxes that may be in relation to alcohol, i.e. the tax on spirits. What about the sugar tax? Is it also in the Radical Left's catalogue of things on which we would like to increase the tax, and which could also mean that fewer people died, and perhaps more people could live the good life, compared to what the Radical Left thinks it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204522	What I said was, to have a good life, you have to be alive. So compared to the 14 000 deaths we have per year, I would say that it is hard to give them a good life if those people are dead. It was like the point of it; it was not necessarily that a good life is not smoking. But I think it is, because it increases the chance to be alive any longer. Compared with other taxes, yes, we know that diabetes, for example, is a major problem and we need to look at the sugar levy. It is not with me; it is with our tax rapporteur. But I think it is worth looking at, because we have some health challenges in areas other than smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204552	So there are no more questions for the radical rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. This welcomes the rapporteur of the SF, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204603	Thank you. That smoking is unhealthy, I think most of us in here can agree. We also know that smoking costs lives. Nicotine is one of the most addictive substances we have at all. The easiest way to stop smoking is still gone, that you don't start altogether. In fact, I think a lot of smokers have done that. That is why it has also made sense to take action which is precisely targeted at young people and which must prevent young people from even starting to smoke. A smoke-free generation 2030 was the former Left Government's goal, but despite the help of the SF, the government did not, unfortunately, reach the goal of concrete initiatives at that time. However, in the SF we continued to work towards the good goal and with concrete proposals on neutral cigarette packs, cigarettes under the counter, and when the young people themselves pointed out that the price would make a difference, we also proposed a price increase. I am therefore very pleased that, with the new government, we have managed to reach an agreement which has all the preventive elements that both the young people themselves and the researchers have pointed out. Thank you. I have noted that the package has made the industry ache, and I understand that. Dependency has traditionally provided very good conditions for regular customers in the store. But economic benefits can and must never trump the obvious health benefits of the agreement. If the agreement results in fewer young people starting smoking, we have reached an important health milestone, so the SF will of course vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204806	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is why the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten can be welcomed, and that is what Mr von der Vring said. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020204821	Thank you. On today's occasion, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister for Industry on having been promoted to the Minister for Health. It's a big day. In Kås in Vendsyssel, my good friend Jan Jan is 69 years old. He started smoking when he was 11 years old. He was wearing newspapers, and so he earned a penny so that he could afford to buy cigarettes, which he could then hide under a tot moss in the woods, where he could then start getting used to smoking. It wasn't funny, because starting to smoke isn't funny. It tastes awful, but on the other hand, it's hard to quit again. Jan has also tried to quit, and he's tried 10-15 times, and he's a pretty stubborn bastard. But he can't, because it's so disgustingly difficult. But he has set himself the goal that now a carton of cigarettes should last a whole month, and he keeps that, because when he can't quit smoking, he will certainly limit smoking. Jan has also been given COPD, and I don't think a single day goes by when he doesn't curse that he went into the woods, found the smokes under the moss and forced himself to inhale. Jan, of course, finds it annoying that it is now more expensive and more troublesome to be a smoker, but he actually thinks it is a good idea anyway, because as he says, he would have liked someone to have made it more difficult for Jan of 11 years of age to start smoking, instead of being an eternal customer of a greedy tobacco industry who does anything to drag customers, especially young people, into the store. That is why it is a very good day today when we are implementing the agreement on a plan of action against children and young people's smoking and nicotine addiction. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen an increase in the number of children and young people starting to smoke, and we know that smoking is the biggest inequality factor in terms of health. The vast majority of smokers start smoking like Jan before they reach the age of 18, and the vast majority have a desire to stop again, just as most come from low-income families. There are a great many positive elements in the agreement on hidden sales, i.e. that products are not visible in stores, neutral packaging, stricter marketing bans, smoke-free school hours are phased in in in cooperation with school and educational institutions, bans on enticing flavourings, and that regulation will apply to other nicotine products. For Enhedslisten, it is crucial that we now take a significant step towards reducing children and young people's smoking and nicotine addiction, and we have therefore also been given funds in the Finance Act both to strengthen the safety authority's control over sales, but also to improve efforts for smoking cessation courses targeted socially exposed and unpaid smoking cessation medicines for the same group. For too many of our preventive measures are targeted at the middle class, although socially vulnerable people have exactly the same dream of quitting smoking as everyone else. Several consultation parties also point out that there were more measures that could further strengthen efforts. We are quite open to looking at this on an ongoing basis if the current legislation does not prove to be sufficient. For it is an unscrupulous industry that we are up against, which demonstrates immense creativity in inventing new products that can sustain children and young people in dependence. There are a few elements that we want to look at in committee. When it comes to standardized packs, we have learned that instead of putting small advertising labels into the packages, tobacco producers are starting to put small advertising labels into the packages. We believe that this should be covered by the ban on advertising effects. Furthermore, we should ensure that the derogation in relation to characteristic flavourings, flavourings for pipe tobacco and cigars is not used to make new products primarily targeted at children and young people. But, of course, the Enhedslisten supports the proposal. As I have said, we are open to looking at any subsequent sharpenings if the legislation is to be continually adapted. We are well aware that we are up against a tobacco industry which is taking advantage of every opportunity to circumvent legislation, because they see a huge potential for profit in keeping people in unwanted abuse. We hope that the proposal here will free many people like Jan in 11 years from getting into the grip of the tobacco giants. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205254	Thank you very much. Then I'll tell you a story too. I once drove a taxi, and where we were most busy, every other Thursday. That's where I was supposed to pick up a couple who had to go to the municipal office to get their welfare. When they had picked up the welfare, I drove them up to the farm and waited for them outside, while the meter ticked, of course, and when they came out, they had a box of beer and a carton of cigarettes with them. If the kids were lucky, they got potatoes that day... French potatoes. When I met them on the street a week later, they had no more money. They did not have money for leisure activities for children or other things or healthy diets. Is that what Enhedslisten now offers them when they say it's so hard to stop? Apparently, you think just by hiding them and stuff, they stop. So is it not a bit contradictory to say that it is difficult to stop smoking, but at the same time believe that they can stop by hiding cigarettes under the counter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205404	No, that's not what makes people stop; that's what makes people not start. When we take the example seriously, do we really imagine that if you make beer and smoke cheaper, that family will have a better life? I don't believe that. I think there is a lot we can do to help socially vulnerable people, but I find it hard to see why the focus on socially vulnerable people should be limited to socially vulnerable smokers and that the way we should help them is to ensure that cigarettes are cheaper. There are plenty of other ways I'd like to help the socially vulnerable. That is also why we have been given funding for targeted smoking cessation courses for the socially vulnerable, because we do not normally address them. They have exactly the same desire as many others to quit smoking, but we just don't have any offers for them. That is why we must treat them with exactly the same respect as we treat all other citizens, and therefore also offer those who are targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205500	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205502	If you want to treat them with respect, you respect that there may be a reason why they smoke and then you help them in other ways so that they get better and can choose to quit smoking themselves and it is not a state that comes and pulls it down on them. But the rapporteur said something exciting in his speech: there has been an increase in smoking among young people. I would like to know which age group it is from which age to what age it is, because when you say it, there must be evidence of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205531	Well, there is. There are, among other things. in school children's surveys, which are continuously being made and where we can follow how young people up to 15 years of use of smoke products and nicotine products are. I would just like to arrest the second, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says, because this is not really about helping the socially disadvantaged by just ensuring that they continue to have the opportunity to smoke. It is about helping them with a much more broad-spectrum effort. It is about reducing structural inequality. And there are plenty of other things we have to do besides making it difficult for young people to start smoking. But imagine that we could solve those problems by saying that if only they have the opportunity to smoke, because that's what they rely on, and that's what makes them have a decent life, then it's good, it just doesn't work out among the socially vulnerable I've worked with at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205617	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205621	Now I have been listening to Enhedslisten for several years trying to reduce the benefits of passive transfers because, as they say, you don't get people into work by making them poorer. Does the Enhedslisten really think that fewer people from low-income groups and socially vulnerable people are going to smoke and that more people are going to stop smoking because they are reducing their availability by raising taxes? That is the logic that is presented here. And then you can't just have it when it comes to transfer income; then you have to have it for this one too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205706	When it is the case that we are thundering against cutting down on transfer income, it is because it reduces people's ability to have a decent life where they can make their own choices. That is basically what this is all about. If they then choose to start smoking, nobody is preventing them, but we can make it more difficult, and that is why we have tobacco taxes today. It is because we believe that it is a choice that must be difficult to make. It is not prohibited, and you can make that choice, but it is not something to be made attractive. That is also what we are strengthening with the legislation we are making today. We make it harder to get cigarettes; we make it harder to advertise them; and we make it even harder for the tobacco industry. The companies will have more difficulty in earning their earnings, which I should like to say is quite large and at least large enough for them to have been indifferent to the tax we have put on because they have just chosen to scrap the tax and pay it themselves - some of them at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205801	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205803	In my optics, there is nothing decent about depriving people of opportunities to act by reducing the amount of available money they have through behavior-regulating charges. It's not about decency. It is about having a desire and a desire to control the lives of these people. It is because you have a desire and a desire to say to those people who may be living on the side of the shadow of society that they do not have a decent life, but that they have to live the life that we think is proper There are also very many people out there who have made smoking a part of their lives, which this is not going to change. There you just make their available money less, so they have to cut down on some things. And Enhedslisten must also take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205843	It's really strong that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen here today says that people's opportunities for action are not strengthened by reducing their available amounts. I fully agree with that. That is why we need to ensure decent cash aid; that is why we also need to remove poverty benefits, so that people are given the opportunity to make free choices. However, it is not a question of saying that they should just go to buy cigarettes for them, because we do not charge them. It's about giving people the opportunity to decide for themselves what they want to spend their money on. And we are not just doing this by lowering the taxes on cigarettes; we are doing this by making sure that they have an amount of money available so that they can decide for themselves what they want to spend their money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205928	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205932	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund for a very good rapporteur speech. The two previous rapporteurs made me think of something that I have been thinking about when you are told that tobacco taxes will be socially unfair. I would like to hear the rapporteur's view that the problem is not taxation, but the fact that smoking has a social side in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020205953	Yes, it is absolutely true that it is smoking that helps to increase social inequality. This is among other things. What shortens the number of years of life. We can see that those who primarily start smoking are people from low-income families, they are the short-educated; that is where smoking particularly affects. That is why I have always found it difficult to understand why raising taxes should have a social disadvantage, because it is as if we should only look at the socially disadvantaged or low-income families who are smokers. On the contrary, it is a question of raising that base so that they all have the opportunity to make choices, also to make the choice that you do not want to start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210037	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210048	Thank you. I think it is quite gratifying that we are now taking a hard look at the root of the nettle in the fight to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. We Conservatives take the view that people have to decide for themselves whether they want to smoke with the harmful effects it has on their health, but we will go very, very far to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. Unfortunately, it has proved almost impossible to raise the prices of cigarettes, regardless of what has been decided here in the Folketing, but we must take that separately. It turns out that one of the most important instruments in relation to the start of smoking by children and young people is price increases. The proposal we are discussing here is an agreement between the Government and the Left, Radical, SF, Enhedslisten, Alternative and then us Conservative. In short, it is a question of preventing children and young people from being positively affected by tobacco products and other nicotine products and electronic cigarettes; that children and young people do not smoke during school hours and on matricles that house educational establishments with pupils under the age of 18; that we ensure that tobacco products are not sold to young people under the age of 18; that the penalties for violation of the sales ban are tightened; and, finally, that it is easier for municipalities to provide smoking cessation products so that those who want to get out of their addiction can also be helped to do so. We are delighted with the overall proposal, although we will try to correct a few elements in the committee's work. For example, we agreed in the agreement that standardised packages should be introduced. We did so because we want cigarette advertising to be restricted so that fewer young people start smoking, but we can see that there are some tobacco producers who are now starting to put advertising content in the cigarette packets themselves and, at the same time, are also starting to put advertising on cigarette filters. Our starting point is that the packages must be neutral, both inside and outside. In addition, I am thinking of exceptions to the specialties for cigars, pipes and pipe tobacco, which have probably become equally narrow enough. It is also unclear whether the derogation for the adult product, namely cigars, applies to the whole cigar family or whether it is only some types. We look forward to this proposal helping to ensure that we have a non-smoking youth year, and I look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210352	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210357	When you say that you want fewer young people to smoke and you want to go a long way, you also want other things that are unhealthy, for example. Alcohol? We know that young Danes have set a record in alcohol consumption and that it kills 6,300 people, i.e. 20 people a day. Is this also something that Conservatives will oppose in order to make fewer young people have to start doing so, for example? By raising taxes? It is said, after all, that it is an effective means, and it is also evident, as regards how much young people drink from strong spirits, that it is the price of what is crucial. If that is the case, will Conservatives also intervene with increased taxes on alcohol and spirits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210437	We don't plan on doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210442	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210446	No, but it was actually the case that Conservatives entered into an agreement in 2018, reducing taxes on alcohol and thus risking increasing consumption. I am to remove a lot of taxes, and I also think it was sensible to lower them and actually remove them completely. But if we put a health aspect into it, then that means that when it is made cheaper to buy alcohol and alcohol, we buy more. You can buy more of it when it gets cheaper to buy it. Is it considered responsible as a health rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210513	Now there is a big difference between tobacco and alcohol. You can have a consumption of alcohol that is not harmful. But there can certainly be no consumption of tobacco which is not harmful, and that is the big difference. Tobacco is the total killer, and it puts a strain on our health services to an extent that is completely out of proportion. I mean, it's so much a burden that when you look into the future and know how the demographics are going to push our health care, this thing about getting a smoke-free vintage will simply be some of the things that can help us keep having a healthcare system that can meet the demand that will be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210555	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210557	Is it not because the rapporteur himself sits and enjoys a small one in the evening that one should not charge it with taxes and all sorts of other things or ban it altogether or say that it is dangerous? Have we ever considered how much alcohol-related diseases actually harm not only those who drink, but also the rest of the family, society, the environment, health care? I would like to hear again: does the rapporteur really believe that alcohol cannot be like cigarettes in terms of being dangerous?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210633	There is no doubt that excessive consumption of alcohol is dangerous and harmful. However, as I hear those who have researched it, they will say that moderate alcohol consumption does not have such a large and harmful effect. Some would even think that it is healthy with a glass of red wine. So the comparison seems to me a little out of proportion. We know that tobacco is definitely the biggest killer and the lowest hanging fruit when we have to do something for public health, and why not start with children and ensure that they do not get started on smoking? I think we have so many examples of people who have become addicted to smoking saying: were we never even started with that? In fact, I also received a request from someone who had made up his mind that now, when the price of cigarettes came up to 60 kroner, he would stop. But he's still going away because he can keep getting some cheap cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210736	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210738	Yeah, that's exactly it. The rapporteur obviously believes what everyone is saying. I have heard a lot of people who both want to stop drinking and smoking, but who have never done so. But it was in relation to the lowest hanging fruit: When that fruit is picked, the other one may be alcohol. But you may not want to touch it, because it is precisely that which powerful men and others who sit and have the money can afford to buy, while that which concerns those who have the least, we can do something about, because we are smarter than them. At the same time, I must say: I would like to hear how old you are today when you start smoking? What do the numbers say?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210816	To take the last thing first, we know that they start when they're quite young. After all, no one starts smoking. That's what the statistics say after they've grown up, actually after they're 18, 19 and 20 years old. So it is in the very young vintage that we must take action, and that is why we also know that among other things. The price has a really great effect, that is, because the children simply cannot afford to buy cigarettes if they are expensive enough. So that's the answer to it, and now I see that time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210847	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210852	Thank you for that and it will be very brief: I just need to hear how much the tax in Denmark will be set up if everyone stops smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210902	Well, that's hard to say, and I don't have any figures on it. But I'm sure we can make somebody count on that. Well, I don't think it's the way to go in and say it's a source of revenue for the state in that way. It is crazy about what it costs in lost years of life, and what it costs in lost production, and people who get lifestyle diseases, where tobacco is one of those who really get through. It is a hugely negative economic business, I am sure, and it is at least at the human level quite awful to have to end up with an oxygen system, as I have had knowledge of some who have done. This is terrible and we must try to avoid it, and that is why we are doing people a favour by ensuring that they do not get started smoking as children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210954	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020210956	I think that was a slightly unclear answer ^ with all due respect so I ask one more time: what happens to the state's finances and we can offset the health costs if everyone stops smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211013	It may be that this is an unclear answer, because I have not been there in this way looking at how the economy is going to be coherent. I can only note that our health care system will collapse if we do not put in here, ensuring that we get rid of some of the smoking-related diseases. Because we are looking into a future where we are getting significantly more older and, as you get older, you will also typically have several different diseases, and this will burden our health care to an extent that we cannot pay if people keep smoking to the extent they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211048	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211057	Thank you. Where to go when life's difficult questions stand and knock, for example. About smoking? There is the clear answer: you are looking for the 1990s youth series. That's where you find the answer, and it's not just any youth series, but of course you have to look towards Beverly Hills. That is where you find the answers, and here we are looking at a character called Donna Martin, who says about a swimming pool the wise words that you can build a large fence around a swimming pool so that the children do not jump in, but that they will find a way to jump in anyway, and that perhaps it was better to teach them the dangers of the water and how to swim, and that makes me think of this debate. Because do you really think from in here that the young people know you're hiding some cigarettes, so you don't want to smoke? That must be the logic, and then I think: listen to me, it has been forbidden to sell cigarettes to children under 18 years of age since 2008, so if what was done in here worked, then there should be no young people smoking, because that is forbidden. You've banned it from in here, and you've been told not to, you can't buy it from stores. But one apparently has some idea that Cecilie, aged 16, is with her mother in Netto to shop for a liver pie for the lunches and some other stuff, and that she's standing there looking and saying: God, there are cigarettes over there, you know what, I'm going straight to Ahmed, who is selling these illegal cigarettes at his Toyota Corolla, because that's where I can buy them. Well, what kind of world do you live in where you believe in such a logic? Because that's what these decisions mean. It simply does not add up. Then you also believe in the fact that you can raise taxes. But the Danes are experts in high taxes. They've been living with them for many years, and there's a good deal about cross-border trade in this, and there's a good deal about illegal cigarettes. Try talking to a long-distance driver and ask him if he has increased a little in availability lately because they are bringing cigarettes home. These are the terms, and if you raise the charges much more, you can actually fly down to Prague and buy the cigarettes down there and fly them back again and save money. The logic of the majority in this Parliament is simply not present when you make these laws. You also have this with you that if you just make it difficult for people, it'll be okay. Now we have gone as far as the Conservative municipality of Gentofte, where people have indeed been sent home because there is corona, so they have to work from home, but there is still a ban on smoking at home because they are working from home. So even if you're out in your garden working from home, you can risk coming to an official conversation and maybe getting fired if you choose to light a cigarette. What kind of paternal hell have we had built up here in the year 2020? Have some respect for grown people! Let me just make it clear that if children smoke, it is the parents' responsibility and not the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211437	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211442	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to admit that I do not expect that when all of this comes into force, no young people smoke like this overnight. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur could come up with some other positive effects beyond a 100-percent stop among young people who could come out of these various approaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211504	I think it makes sense to take a tough stand against the shops which do not comply with the legislation adopted in the Folketing. Then you can agree or disagree with the legislation, but I think there is a need to tighten it up. I would like the fines to be higher, and I would also like to see if you repeatedly cheated on this, then you lost your CVR number and simply had to close the store. That is why I would actually have gone further than has been done in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211537	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211540	Thank you. I expect us to see a reduction in the number of smokers. Perhaps it is not 100 per cent, but there will be a decline, and that is a good first step. After all, the rapporteur tends to lean on data and facts and researchers, and so I would like to know whether the rapporteur has looked at the reports available in this area and on the actions that all experts point to as being effective in relation to this problem, and why the rapporteur, if he has, does not recognise the experts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211609	There you have to understand the basic premise. Well, first of all, I have to acknowledge that this is a problem, and I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211619	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211623	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I sit and am quite fascinated by the ability to cut through what is going on in this Parliament so sharply, and to interpret what logic characterises the thinking of the majority of the people who are now adopting it here. Now, Mr. Knox... Lars Boje Mathiesen has so much insight into what the effect will be of various actions, I would like to hear what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen actually expects to happen after we have adopted this. So, will there be more or fewer young people starting to smoke? And Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen that it will be good or bad, depending on how the development will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211702	Whether more or less young people are going to smoke and whether it is good or bad depends on whether it is something that young people want. I shall not be defining what the good life is for the citizens out there. It is, of course, the fundamentally different approach that we have in New Citizens. We do not believe that we have the right to define for people what the good life is and then hammer them in the head with taxes that are so hard and so strict that we will get their lives regulated so that they get to where we want them. That's the difference between parties like Enhedslisten and New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211737	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211739	Okay, so I didn't get a full answer as to what this would mean in concrete terms, but I would like to ask: is it the New Citizens' view that tobacco taxes should be abolished altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211753	Yes, basically, we do not believe that it is up to the Folketing to impose behavioral taxes on people. We want to eliminate all taxes that are in society. We believe that citizens can decide for themselves about their lives. There are a large number of taxes that we would probably choose to lighten first, but it is also because it would have an economically greater effect. This is true, for example. the registration fee, a reduction in corporation tax and a reduction in top tax. There is a whole range of reliefs that would have a more socio-economic effect and that we would probably start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211817	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020211833	Thank you for the floor. A Clockwork Orange is mostly known as a film from 1971 directed by Stanley Kubrick, but it is based on a really good novel by Anthony Burgess from 1962. If someone is sitting here who doesn't remember the film or the novel, then it is the case that it takes place in an undefined future, where young people in Britain can go to the bar it's the opening scene in the movie and order a kind of White Russian where the milk and ice cubes are preserved while the vodka and Kahlúa are replaced with lsd. The movie and the novel have a youth gang as their focal point. They speak a very special Russian-English language called Supper, and in the evening they are passionate about something they themselves refer to as ultraviolence. And that's what this movie is famous for. That is what most people start to tell them, if you ask them if they know the story, and ask them: what is the story about? But actually, the novel is about something completely different. It is, in a sense, the 1984 Social State. George Orwell's novel is about a fictional Stalinist England, but Anthony Burgess' novel is about the social state of Britain. Because what happens in the novel is that the protagonist named Alex, but you shouldn't put anything into it, is arrested by the police, and then as part of his sentence he is forced to be a good person. He is enrolled in the so-called Ludovico program, and it is a program that, using a whole lot of advanced chemicals and a very complicated therapeutic process and very much coercion, transforms Alex's personality so that he becomes a good person. And now we're at the core of Bill L 61, because it doesn't seem so much like the Clockwork Orange. Now the Danish social state forces a large number of people who know very well that it is unhealthy to smoke for it by all the uprooted people in this country to be healthy. And the crucial word here is not health, but coercion, just like the decisive word for Anthony Burgess was not goodness, but coercion. How far must one go if one is fighting for a good cause, and is it really true that the end justifies the means if only the goal is noble enough? A majority in the Danish Parliament has decided that Denmark should recreate A Clockwork Orange on a full scale now, not with the focal point of goodness, but with the focal point of health. I've both seen the film and read the novel a lot of times, but I'm not going to tell you how it ends, but because I know it, we can't vote for this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212244	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212251	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. Then we know the rapporteur again, compared with the two previous speakers on a few other subjects. I have also read both the book and seen the film, and perhaps not so surprisingly I do not think that the comparison is quite fair in relation to the bill being discussed today. I'd like to know if Mr. Henrik Dahl acknowledges that nicotine is, if not the most addictive, at least one of the most addictive substances that exist and that it is therefore a substance that is • once you have become addicted to it • incredibly difficult to release again. There is therefore no compulsion, at least not on the part of the Danish Parliament, for people not to be forced to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212341	It is true that nicotine is addictive. So is alcohol. But what is really crucial is the whole question of determining how healthy people are. Because once we have decided politically that it is a public matter where healthy people are, there is nothing wrong with saying that people must have a bmi that must not exceed a certain limit, that they must have a payroll that must not be below a certain limit and that they must have a wine or beer intake that does not exceed a certain limit either. So this is the whole principle that health is a public matter, which goes a little further in relation to the consequences is quite problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212429	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212431	I am of the opinion that, as health rapporteurs, health is our concern, and I also believe that there are some fundamental biological differences between alcohol and nicotine, in relation to how addictive it actually is. But that aside: what exactly is the draft law here that the rapporteur considers to be coercive? This is not a ban on smoking. I fully acknowledge that, because it is the whole purpose of a lot of measures to make it more difficult and more expensive to start smoking. But if you really want to, you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212503	The bill is disproportionately in relation to the basic principle that the health of the individual is not a public matter. It is the individual who has his or her own health and determines how much he or she will eat, how much he or she will drink and how much he or she will exercise. I think we should be careful not to be disproportional.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212526	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212530	Thank you for that and thank you to Mr. Henrik Dahl for the speech. It's nice to be reminded of A Clockwork Orange, and I also remember how it ends. That is why I do not entirely agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henrik Dahl in that comparison. Like my good colleague Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, I'm just curious to hear where the compulsion is in relation to this. Basically, this is about regulating an industry by increasing restrictions on how they can sell their products, but there is no compulsion for the individual to be able to make that choice. It just makes it harder for the industry that produces tobacco and nicotine products to sell their products.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212617	It is, of course, a very clear interpretation of the market relationship, because of course one can say that, but it also makes life a great deal worse for the person who wants to smoke a cigarette and who may have a limited budget. Because, of course, life is just gonna get a lot harder for this person. Therefore, it may not be coercive in the sense of handcuffing people, but it is a way of making life very, very awkward for smokers, and the way it makes the life awkward for smokers is still disproportionately away from this principle that it is not a public matter how healthy one lives. We probably all agree on that here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212659	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212701	I think there are many smokers who go down and buy their tobacco, who think it sucks that tobacco costs so much. Part of that is the tax, another part is the income to the tobacco industry we have been able to see how they have an outrageously high income. Is this also a way in which the tobacco industry is forcing consumers to make money selling their products? Because that is implicit in what the rapporteur says. Because if it is coercion that we make it difficult to buy it, it is also a form of coercion that you have to make a lot of money from the product you sell.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212737	It is supply and demand and it is not something that we basically have a problem with in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212744	The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212747	I hope the rapporteur will forgive me for asking this question. Now we're a little closed circle, so I hope it can be allowed to me. I think that what the rapporteur says about the child and the bathing water and the proportionality is interesting. I have seen that the rapporteur is a very, very warm and enthusiastic supporter of the government's corona strategy. And there the rapporteur does not think that we are throwing out the baby with the bath water and having a disproportional approach to that very issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212824	No, I don't think so. I am convinced that this is the worst health crisis with an epidemic disease since the Spanish flu in 1918 and therefore proportional measures must be taken. If I may just give an example: when this year runs out, in a country like the United States, the death toll as a result of corona will approach the number of American soldiers who fell in World War II. They have had a different corona regime from us, but when you have a death figure that is similar to the United States' loss figures in the second world war in one year, you can see that this is a rather serious problem we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212909	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212911	But if you look at the death figures at home and compare how many people have died from corona and how many have died from tobacco, could the rapporteur not give some proportional considerations about the two figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212926	That is where the logic of the Left has actually puzzled me throughout the corona epidemic, for the Left's reasoning about corona has responded to the reasoning of a man who jumps from 2 km high with a parachute and survives and says: There you can see; it is not very dangerous to jump from a plane at 2 km's height. One should remember that it is because of the parachute that it is not dangerous. So when not so many people have died in Denmark, it is because our policy works in a similar way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212953	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020212957	Thank you. I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his reply, which I fully share, but I took the floor on the basis of his reply. Peder Hvelplund. I was able to hear the rapporteur stop where it was about supply and demand. That is something that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of, but how much supply and demand can be advocated when it is that the methods of making money are that you turn a little more up the nicotine all the time. After all, there are examples that these small nicotine bags, which are intended to replace cigarettes, and of which many young people have begun to be big consumers, have gradually turned nicotine consumption so high that it is more than twice what is in a regular cigarette. And it is precisely nicotine that is so addictive. Is supply and demand also okay in terms of creating such a high dependency as is actually the case here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213059	In other words, it is legitimate to regulate if we are somehow dealing with a threat to public health, that is clear. For public health is something other than individual health, it is clear. What was the whole point of my rapporteur's speech was that I think we should be careful to say that, as a state, we have some sort of responsibility for the individual's living a healthy life, because then it is the whole palette of KRAM factors that we are looking at. And then we're also talking about exercise and bmi, and what do I know? There may be some politicians in 10 years who are about to talk about that now we just have to have bmi below 25 or something, and then we have to have a lot of regulation to get bmi below 25, because it's the healthiest. That is, of course, going too far, and I would therefore like to state that the health of the individual is not in this way a political responsibility; it is public health, also in accordance with Mr Beazley's report. Martin Geertsen's question from before.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213152	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213153	However, when we have recently seen examples of the tobacco industry selling cigarettes which are cheaper than the fixed duty on cigarettes, it is a little like the dealer giving the first fix free of charge. So how much supply and demand is there in this kind of business strategy from the point of view of the rapporteur? Do we not have a responsibility to regulate to some extent a market that is so concerned about getting new customers, that is, new young customers, in order to keep production going?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213228	I really think that public education has worked very well in the sense that all people know that smoking is unhealthy. I do not think you can meet one person in this country who is not in special care who is not aware that smoking is unhealthy. So that question has been resolved. And when people smoke, it's because they run a calculated risk. They do, too, when they eat too many cakes, or when they do not exercise or whatever it is. The health of individuals is not a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213300	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213303	Thank you. Now we just opened Pandora's box around Corona, and even World War II is mentioned, where there were about 400,000 Americans who died. I think the figure is about 220,000 who have died of corona right now in the United States, so you have to be a little busy if you're going to get up to 400,000. But does the rapporteur not agree that the important figure here is also the excess mortality rate, i.e. whether there has been an excess mortality rate in society? After all, people die of all kinds of other diseases within a year. So you agree that this is the number you really have to look at here to look at the effects of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213337	Approx. 291,000 soldiers in World War II. Then quite a lot of civilians died, and then the number goes up to 400,000. It was the fallen soldiers I referred to. Corona is, of course, the same disease everywhere in the world, and that is why we need to look at a reference situation, such as that in the United Kingdom. If we do not do something, what will happen, and the effects will be very, very violent. The longer you come from this reference situation, the more effective the actions you have taken have been. South Korea is a good example, Taiwan is another good example. A tragic example is Peru, with over 1,000 deaths per year. Million inhabitants. So the reference situation in relation to excess mortality is to do nothing and the lower the mortality rate, the more the regime that has been set up in each country, the more it has worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213425	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213428	I would agree to say that there are other aspects than just overmortality. It also has something to do with the organisation of society, it has something to do with the demographic development of the population, it has something to do with what concrete decisions are being taken at state level, for example. also in the United States, where there is a big difference between how individual states have handled this. So there are a number of other factors. But if it ends up with saying that the overmortality in, for example. The United States is not extreme, would it be said that the United States has still handled this badly? If you look at Sweden, you had a very, very small flu epidemic in 2017-18, which then appears in an overmortality later on, at least some say. Do you also recognize that it can have an impact on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213511	Approx. 2.8 million people a year in the United States in a normal year in recent years. So if 280,000 Americans die, that's 10%. In spite of the efforts that have been made, the usual death toll has been reduced. It's pretty serious that we just smoke 10%. In addition to the 2.8 million people who would otherwise die, this is not a particularly good way of dealing with the epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213536	Thank you to the rapporteur. We went a long way, one might well say, in this final round of the debate. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Industry, who will give a speech on behalf of the Minister for Health and the elderly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020213550	Thank you. It is always a little exciting to be allowed to draw in the big lottery of cases you can get to fill in on. I think it has been a very good debate, which I have been allowed to attend, on a really, very important matter, which will make a very, very big difference, I am very convinced, for young people in our country. So thank you for the congratulations and for the opportunity to fill in your company here. And thank you also for the comments that have been made largely positive and all of course good observations, but a positive reception of the bill as a whole. The draft law, as everyone knows, translates into the political agreement on a plan of action against children and young people's smoking, which the government and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament agreed on last December. It is therefore a legislative proposal that brings about a very ambitious plan. We are launching a wide range of initiatives aimed at effectively preventing and curbing smoking and the use of other tobacco products and nicotine products among children and young people, and which patient associations and professionals have been in demand for several years. With the agreement, we do it all at once, and it helps to make Denmark a pioneering country in this area. Children and young people are particularly vulnerable to the harmful effects of tobacco and other nicotine products. At the same time, most people start smoking before they reach the age of 18, thus creating at an early age the nicotine addiction that can harm them for the rest of their lives. The figures show that there are grounds for action. Every day 40 children and young people start smoking. Smoking is the biggest single cause of disease and death in Denmark and the biggest threat to public health. Smoking is very unevenly distributed and thus also the largest single factor that creates inequality in health in Denmark. Among the concrete measures in the bill are proposals that tobacco should be stored away in shops so that it does not tempt children and young people and that standardized packaging is introduced for all tobacco products and e-cigarettes so that they are given a uniform expression. Smoke-free school time is introduced in primary, secondary, boarding and upper secondary education. More stringent penalties are laid down for selling tobacco to children and young people under the age of 18 or for violating the rules of the Smoking Act. The rules on the prohibition of advertising, sponsorship and distribution are further strengthened. It also lays down a ban on the sale of e-cigarettes and tobacco products other than cigarettes. fruit and sweets tasting to prevent those products becoming a road to nicotine addiction and ordinary cigarettes for young people. We knew that when such an ambitious and far-reaching plan is implemented, there is a risk that the European Commission or other Member States will have objections, and the Commission has this to the ban on tasty tobacco products. For us, it does not seem logical for health reasons if we are not to ban flavours in tobacco products other than cigarettes and rolling tobacco, where they are already banned. The government is therefore proposing to retain the provisions of the bill, but we must wait until EU law is in place for the provision to enter into force. We have replied to the Commission and are now waiting for their reaction. We must respect the European Union, but we must also challenge them when EU rules end up standing in the way of public health. The government will continue to do so. If necessary, we will also address this in the context of the review of the Tobacco Products Directive. The measures implemented by the legislative proposal are, overall, a huge step forward for public health, and it is essential that we reverse developments. With all these measures, Denmark becomes one of the countries in the world that puts the most comprehensive and collected against children and young people's smoking. I hope that the draft law will receive a good committee reading, in which the Minister for Health and the Elderly will of course answer any questions that the committee may have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214042	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214048	Thank you very much. Thank you for the Minister's time, and then perhaps we could take some business questions, in relation to whether you don't think about some of the small professions out there that actually make a living selling tobacco and nicotine products, so whether you want to take it to other places, in terms of the fact that it is now the bandits who can make money, and you actually make another way for young people to get the tobacco they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214126	After all, this is always a matter to be taken into account, and this is also the case in many other respects, where we regulate unwanted sales or other matters. But it is clear that when you make a legislative proposal like that before us, there is also the balance that is at stake here. Martin Geertsen's words are to make this work as quickly as possible, but at the same time to give the transition to the companies that are needed so that you can change your business. That is why I have the impression that the balance has been struck here, in which both rapid entry into force is achieved, but also takes account of the fact that, of course, there is a conversion to be carried out in individual shops. Then there's the whole trail of what you risk moving elsewhere. And, of course, that is something that must be kept under constant review and followed up, and I am sure that will be included in the debates that will come about about the effects of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214231	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214233	The last government, together with the Danish People's Party, made an agreement on how to catch some of the smugglers who enter the country much better and faster. And there I would like to hear: what has been done about it by the government, and how will you ensure that something is taken up because of it? Because, as I know, it's something you've left still, even though you're actually seeing more and more contraband cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214300	I am sure that is one of the things you can go much deeper into in committee work. In general terms, however, I would say that the smuggling of goods is, of course, a serious relationship and something that we as a society must, of course, guard over. This requires a strong and effective customs effort and control effort, and in relation to the concrete issue of smuggled cigarettes, which is being asked here, it probably also requires an effective and focused committee effort in relation to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214332	There are no more questions for the Minister, so thank you to the Minister. Since no one else has asked to speak either, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214406	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214420	Thank you. Patient safety is vital when we talk about health. We must be able to have confidence that the medical equipment and medicines on the market meet very basic requirements. Therefore, it is also gratifying and sensible that with this bill we are proposing to strengthen patient safety in particular. EU rules are being tightened up so that more products are included and there will be better opportunities to check whether the products entering the market are now meeting the requirements. It is also planned that the clinical trials initiated have undergone a professionally competent assessment and are ethically sound and that citizens have a good experience of participating in clinical trials and wishing to be part of it again. These are all a whole series of sensible measures that help to strengthen patient safety and to strengthen confidence. These are proposals which, of course, the Social Democrats can support. That's how short it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214533	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and thus it became brief. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. It's sir. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214546	Thank you very much. I say a little something completely different, also just to make it fill up a little. I do, because the proposed legislation actually needs to be seen in a slightly wider context. So, if at this late hour I may be allowed to swing up a little on the big blade, then the previous government launched a life science growth plan in spring 2018 and the initiatives in that plan are currently being revised without us giving up on the overall objective. For the Danish life science industry is and will be a robust growth engine in the Danish economy. In a strong Danish life science sector, the mediko industry is not out of the question, and therefore the Left would also like to contribute to the best possible implementation of EU rules in Danish legislation. This bill is intended to adapt Danish law on medical devices to EU rules. Most interesting, I think, is the scientific assessment of clinical trials of medical devices, in other words that in future it should be regulated in a new main law and that scientific assessments are carried out by state specialised scientific committees. That's what I see as the new move in this. In the Left, we expect this to help support the innovation of the Medico sector and also access to both the Danish market and export markets. However, there are a number of things that we would like to see clarified in the forthcoming committee. Let me just give just one example here: the recycling of one-off equipment. Apart from the fact that recycling can hardly be one-off equipment, at least from the perspective of some, recycling can also involve a patient risk. That is why, during the legislative process, we will work to clarify a little the responsibility for recycling and the possible consequences thereof. At the edge of the bill, but perhaps directly related, we also have some challenges regarding the capacity of notified bodies for the certification of medical devices in the European Union. We would also like to ask how we can restore the notified body, which was established earlier this month in the agreement on the restart of Danish exports, which this minister knows a great deal about. We look forward to cooperation and the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214827	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020214837	Thank you very much. On this proposal, I can say that the previous rapporteurs have said everything, so I do not have to say much else. But I have to say that it is always the case that when I see that it has something to do with the European Union, I stand it in my arms and say: it is probably not something for us in the Danish People's Party. But I was also a health rapporteur when we adopted this EU directive. And why did we do it, and why did we work so hard for it? A lot of us remember those patients who got artificial hips... it was metal against metal. They had so many pains and hips crumbled. Who doesn't remember the breast implants that many women put in and leaked and made them sick? There were nets for wombs, which had to be kept in place. Once in a while, it is done for women and the nets grew into other organs. There have been a lot of these stories, and they came at once, and we asked: what is happening? This is because you buy some of these products in other EU countries, so we had to ensure that the quality was in order. So this is probably one of the places where it is important that we actually have cooperation; of course you do not have to be a member of the European Union for that, but at least we can work together on it. I know that when you asked the Minister at the time, you were told that there were also people who died of it. One thing is that there are many who suffer from getting something that does not fit into their bodies or is rejected or not properly examined at all, but one got in reply that over a ten-year period there was about. 83,000 worldwide who died while at home over the same period was approx. Hundred who died of it. So, of course, this is something we can support, that is to say, going in and making regulations instead, but I would also like to say that there is a lot in this bill, so I am sure that we will be asking a lot of questions. The development continues; now it is not only metal and other things that are put into the body, now there are also some that need to be pilled in their lips, and there are some that need to have Botox and all sorts of strange things, and all these things also need to be approved, and that is something that is now included in the regulation here, and we are glad about that too. Something that we also always appreciate in the Danish People's Party is language requirements. It is not quite certain that it will be in Danish, but I think I will ask what kind of language it is in connection with rules and instructions for use, because when the British leave the European Union, it may become French. But at least that's some of the things we can find out. There is also a lot in connection with the science of research, who is sitting with, and how to be elected, which we also think is a good way to do it. Then, too, there are the rules of availability in relation to foreign pharmaceutical companies in Denmark, which, of course, must also be in place. We have the rules when we talk about Danish pharmaceutical companies, so of course there must also be in relation to the foreign pharmaceutical companies. The rapporteur before me also referred to this issue of disposable products, which can be used several times, and I have to say that, as some of the consultations have said, this is not a one-off product. So there are a number of questions on this, but we are at least saying yes to the proposal, although there are some things we would like to know a little more about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215232	Thank you. I'll see if I can make it in five minutes, but I don't think I can be relatively brief. All in all, this is a very excellent legislative proposal put forward by the Minister, and now I am looking at the Minister, who is not the minister who put it forward, but nevertheless it is an excellent legislative proposal. I note that the consultation responses and the comments made by the Ministry come very well on all the main aspects of this bill. Organisation of the ethics committees for handling applications has been elucidated. There are very good considerations about the consent of subjects, in particular some good considerations about the participation of children, and provision has been made to ensure the viability of the researchers involved with some quite excellent measures, I have to say, and all of this does not matter; it is extremely important, both to ensure a smooth application process, it is important for the researchers, and to ensure a qualified assessment, it is important for all of us, and it helps to ensure the continued confidence in the clinical trials and the results that come out of them that we are all so dependent on. I also note that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very sensible to take up the concerns raised by, among others. The Institute for Human Rights, seriously, to remove the parts dealing with limitations on the rights of subjects, also a very good idea when reading the hearing responses. Then there is the part about the recycling of one-off equipment, as a few other rapporteurs have also mentioned. There are a few concerns from among others. The medical association and the medical industry are probably for a little different reasons. The mere fact that there is talk of recycling one-off equipment is a bit counterintuitive, one might say. Nevertheless, as the Minister also notes, it is of course absolutely crucial that this should never happen at the expense of patient safety, it is given, and we must, of course, ensure it all the way through. However, as I read the bill, it is also suggested that this should always be done on the basis of a concrete assessment by the Danish Medicines Agency. Nevertheless, I would like to hear what experience has been gained in other countries, both positive and negative, when these steps have been taken towards recycling one-off equipment. So I would like to see that clarified further in the work of the committee. In addition, there are, of course, some other positive effects of recycling when it comes to both the economy, the environment and the climate, which must also be taken into account. All in all, however, this is a very good legislative proposal, which we in the Radical Left support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215502	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can confirm that there was plenty of time within the five minutes. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215513	Thank you. It is high time, in the SF, that we equate medical devices with medicines, for example, when it comes to authorisation. That is why I also agree with several of the previous rapporteurs that this proposal, which is intended to ensure that medical devices in the future receive the greatest attention from the Danish Medicines Agency, is also a correct and important proposal. Problems with artificial hips and abdominal organs and pacemakers are also examples that we have noted in the SF and have been very concerned about. These are also just a few of the examples that a number of journalists from all over the world have gathered as examples of precisely medical devices being used before they have been tested in actual medical trials. Therefore, it is both right and necessary that we get this agreement where we get approved medical devices, and we agree that it should be brought together centrally at the Danish Medicines Agency. And we also support the austerity measures that apply to future approvals. As some of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned in relation to the re-use of one-off equipment, we will have to either explain it or translate it into something understandable, so that we know what we are actually talking about. So you can't both recycle it and call it one-time equipment, so maybe it's just about something else. But basically the SF supports the proposal. This is an important proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020215709	Thank you. As you know, today we are dealing with L 62, which deals with the scientific treatment of clinical testing of medical and non-medical equipment. The draft law is based on amendments to the EU regulations in force in this area. A rather central part of the bill is about moving the scientific assessment of clinical trials from regional scientific committees to new state specialised medical committees. We welcome this in the Enhedslisten. Although we are often concerned about centralisation, we are dealing with a highly specialised area where it is crucial that we bring together the most important competences, so that assessments always take all relevant considerations into account and protect citizens and patients from faulty or risky equipment. It also follows from the relevant EU legislation that the Danish rules need to be adjusted so that it should no longer be a requirement that importers and distributors of in vitro diagnostic medical devices and devices should keep their invoices for 5 and 15 years depending on the equipment. The purpose of the storage has been to enable the Ministry to use invoices as part of the market surveillance of the area. Now, the demand is being replaced by the requirement of the freedom of method for importers and distributors to inform their recipients and suppliers. It is important for Enhedslisten that it does not lead to a more indistinct picture of the equipment's movement through the supply chains. The Unity List also welcomes the fact that non-medical devices should now be subject to the same standard of scientific ethics as medical devices. There are several scare examples of the use of intrusive cosmetic and non-medical equipment that do not meet the normal safety requirements that we associate with and should expect from medical devices. We also support the fact that the government is proposing the continuation of security measures which are not harmonised through the regulations. This applies, for example, to the reporting of incidents and rules that medical devices can only be supplied in pharmacies. The bill also translates the recommendations in the Danish Medicines Agency's report •Evaluation of the 2018 association reform, which regulates the relationship between healthcare staff and the medical industry. The unit list has always fought for full transparency about the fitness of healthcare professionals and their relationship with industry when participating in equipment tests. Many applications will be major applications from industry, and it is crucial that it is professionalism and not industry's interests that weigh most when we authorise new equipment. It is essential for Enhedslisten that all those who are to participate in tests and tests in connection with the approval of new equipment are fully informed and have access to information about the trials they are involved in. That is why we are also pleased that, in the light of the criticisms of the hearings, the Minister has chosen to remove the restriction on the rights of data subjects from the draft law. At the same time, we, like the Children's Council, attach great importance to the need for minors between 5 and 15 years of age to be consulted and involved at all times in a clinical trial. That is why Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220010	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. No one has signed up for any further comments, and then it is the Conservative People's Party, by Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220019	Thank you for that, President. As you know, this is an approach to a common EU regulation on the authorisation of medical devices. It makes very good sense to have common EU requirements for medical devices so as to ensure that patient safety is at its top. It is also very important to ensure both impartiality and equity among those involved. The draft law provides that the same rules as apply to doctors' association with the pharmaceutical industry are applied, and that is quite reasonable. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220102	Thank you for that, sir. Per Larsen. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220109	Thank you. New citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220114	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220126	Thank you for the floor. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen has threatened me with a burst of brief comments from the Red parties, if I do not mention a Roman emperor. So I have looked at the 70 emperors between 14 B.C.E. and 395 C.E. There were 70, and the 31 were murdered, so they did not die from contaminated medical equipment. A large part of the rest fell into battle and the like. So I must disappoint, there will not be a Roman emperor. The closest I can get to it is Christian 5, who died in a hunting accident, where he tried to lay down a deer, but died of wound fever, so maybe he can get into the picture, but we'll have to take that another day. But this is a very good proposal because it simply harmonises the rules on medical devices for EU standards, and since we are a huge international player in medical devices, it is good for Danish industry, as Mr. Martin Geertsen also mentioned, and it is of course also super good for patients and other users of it. So this is a very good proposal, which we, with or without Roman emperors, are very much in favour of. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220244	So it's exciting to see if the Minister can come after this little speech. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020220307	Thank you for that, and I can't. But I think it's exciting to be a substitute. Many things are becoming wiser, including health, but we have come a long way this evening, and it is a great pleasure. If I can make it as short as the others, I won't be able to say. A full composition of a speech has been written, so I will work through it for all of you. I should like to begin by thanking you for your comments and for the largely good reception of the bill. In fact, I think I will twit it up and say that the bill is completely welcome. The reason why the government is making this proposal is that the first part of the new EU rules in the field of medical devices will apply from May next year. The new rules mean an improvement in the area and a boost in patient safety throughout the chain, which has been necessary. The government welcomes this. It is absolutely crucial that patients should be safe in that the equipment used in their treatment is safe and we must ensure that patients can be confident that the healthcare professionals responsible for the treatment are capable and open to their possible cooperation with the industry. In addition, we must safeguard Denmark's position of strength in Europe in the field of health research. This presupposes, among other things, that: the effective processing of applications for clinical trials of medical devices and products without a medical purpose. Therefore, a new regulatory setup is proposed for the scientific treatment of applications for clinical trials of medical devices and products without a medical purpose. The new EU rules give us reason to look at the existing national rules on medical devices, i.e. whether they are sufficient to fulfil the obligations laid down in the new EU rules. First of all, the rules of the Medical Devices Act must be adapted. On the one hand, there should be no national rules contrary to the new EU rules when they enter into force, and on the other hand, national rules should be laid down to allow the application of EU rules. This requires regulations on certain points. These include, as has been pointed out, language requirements for example. instructions for use, rules on control by the Danish Medicines Agency in this area and penalties for infringements of EU rules. In order to further strengthen the safety of patients, subjects and users of products without a medical purpose, the draft law also contains national special rules in some of the areas where it is permitted by the Medical Devices Regulation. First of all, the rules require the Danish Medicines Agency to approve clinical trials on humans of low- or intermediate-risk devices and of products with no medical purpose, and secondly, the requirement that distributors of products with no medical purpose be registered with the Danish Medicines Agency. And, as a final element, it is also proposed to lay down rules in the field of medical devices that are not harmonised by EU rules. It is against this background that we propose that a number of applicable provisions of the Medical Devices Act be continued, including the provisions on the possibility of rules on reporting incidents with medical devices and rules on the availability of medical devices only at the pharmacy. At the same time, the proposal provides that existing rules may be extended to products with no medical purpose in order to support the intention of EU rules to strengthen the safety of users of these products. That is, for example, the case. relevant with regard to the rules on the association of healthcare professionals with industry, where it is proposed to include companies working with non-medical devices. At the same time, the draft law implements the recommendations in the Danish Medicines Agency's report, which is called "Evaluation of the Association Reform" which appeared in December 2018. That evaluation shows that the eligibility rules are working well. These rules help to promote the professional benefit of cooperation between health professionals and industry and to ensure confidence in the viability of health professionals. There is only a need for minor adjustments, such as: The aim is to extend the definition of companies covered by the associated rules to representatives in Denmark of foreign pharmaceutical companies and to introduce stricter rules on the association of doctors with specialist stores selling medical devices. Finally, the regulation on medical devices lays down stricter requirements for procedures and time limits for the assessment of applications for clinical trials of medical devices and products without a medical purpose. Denmark's compliance with these deadlines and procedures requires close cooperation between the Danish Medicines Agency and the committee system, and therefore a new main law proposes a new regulatory setup for the scientific treatment of applications for clinical trials of medical devices and products without a medical purpose. The examination of applications for clinical trials is thus proposed to be moved from the regional scientific committees to new state specialised medical committees. This will provide a good basis for effective processing of applications for clinical trials of medical devices, with which Denmark will be able to maintain its position of strength in Europe in the field of health research. Good health research framework is crucial for companies' ability to develop new, effective and safe medical devices and is the foundation for patients to have access to better medical devices. Then I should just like to respond briefly to a few comments that fell along the way. I think Mrs Liselott Blixt asked about the choice of language in relation to instructions for use and the new option. As a starting point, it will be Danish, but with exceptions. I do not know whether we are getting the Danish People's Party enthusiastically excited about the European Union today, but there is at least an opportunity here that one can choose to say that it should be in Danish as a starting point. Then, along the way, the question of the so-called recycling of one-off equipment was also raised. It has been there before, I know, but I think there is good reason to repeat it. It is, of course, a crucial premise that patients can safely be treated with medical devices when they are in our healthcare system, and there is no intention to change that with the bill here. There will be strict restrictions on when the recycling of medical devices can take place, and the Danish Medicines Agency's professionals, in cooperation with the Statens Serum Institute, will assess whether a specific type of equipment should be recyclable. Then a proper announcement will have to be made about it. So the point is that the equipment has to be as safe and it has to be the same as when it is first used. Then I don't think I can come up with anything else about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020221050	Then we thank the Minister. I could quote a Roman emperor if it were to be, but I'm not going to do this because he's going to be in the top five of the worst emperors. It is Marcus Aurelius, so I will not quote him, but just note that no more have asked for the floor, and that is the end of the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201020221134	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 October, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
