ParlaMint-DK_20201022095945	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Marie Krarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 46 (Proposal for a resolution on the labelling of meat by method of slaughter) and motion for a resolution No. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the wearing of Islamic scarf in public institutions). Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), Heidi Bank (V), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a working party to ensure proper conditions for prostitutes). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 49 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new legal protection fund in the field of disability and suspensive effect in the event of a complaint). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Agenda item 11, draft law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development and the law on general housing, etc. L 6), item 12 of the agenda, draft law amending the law on general housing, etc. and the law on the rental of general housing (proposal No. L 7), and item 13 of the agenda, draft law amending the Building Act (proposal No. L 8) is deleted from today's agenda at the request of the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100052	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100103	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100141	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100157	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour, 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Those then who do not want to take part in the negotiations, please leave the Chamber quietly. We are embarking on today's negotiations, and that is why I expect those who need to talk now to go out into the sidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100316	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100333	Thank you, President. When technology develops and can help with good solutions in everyday life, we in the Danish Parliament must be open to adapting legislation and putting technological advances in the service of society. And that is precisely what we are doing with this bill, which aims to set the framework for an experimental scheme with less self-propelled units. The experimental scheme is proposed as an authorisation system. This means that self-propelled units can operate only after authorisation by the Minister of Transport and it is proposed that the Minister of Transport supervise permitted tests. It is proposed that self-propelled units should only be allowed to drive on lines and in areas where there is limited traffic. The draft law provides for the possibility of laying down detailed rules for the experimental system at the level of notice. There will be, among other things: be able to lay down rules on the speed, positioning on roads, identification number, etc. of self-propelled units. And it is clear from the draft law that rules will be laid down to ensure that the units are allowed to run a maximum of 6 km/h as a starting point. It's about like normal walking speed. In some cases a speed of up to 15 km/h could be allowed, but the starting point is the 6 km/h. In addition, the draft law states that it is a prerequisite for testing with self-propelled devices that a natural person can take over control of the device, and this can be done either by means of a remote control or via, for example, a remote control. computer management of the device. The draft law lays down that in the event of damage caused by a self-propelled unit during an experiment, the licence holder shall be granted the objective liability and liability of the Road Traffic Code. At the same time, it is proposed that after negotiation with the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Transport may lay down rules on penalties for infringements of the rules of the Road Traffic Code, including on the subject of criminal liability. It is proposed in the draft law that the trial scheme and the supervision of the permitted trials should be financed through user charges with a fee. The bill also amends the law on vehicle registration so that the self-propelled units do not have to be registered in the vehicle register and do not have to bear a registration plate. Instead, it is proposed to lay down rules at the level of the Order on identification numbers and other measures to facilitate the identification of the authorisation holder. The Social Democratic Party believes that the proposed rules provide a reasonable framework for an experimental system of self-propelled units. The proposed experimental scheme allows for the development and testing of a new technology, but ensures that it is done in a road safety manner that is sound. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100625	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100642	Thank you. Technological developments are rushing out there, and thank you for that. Every day there are new technological achievements that will allow us humans to have a lighter life and a greener life, and that is exactly what this bill is about. It is about self-propelled units that can be of great help to companies, including public institutions. It could be in home care, it could be in distribution and other purposes. That is why we need to create a framework for these self-propelled units to operate safely and securely, and that is what we are doing with this legislative proposal and the attempt we are making. It is clear, then, that safety must be paramount, and that is why the Minister has also suggested that it is only driving in restricted areas. It is not someone we should be sending out on heavily busy main streets or motorways. It is in areas with limited traffic where it can be done in a sound manner. There is also a requirement that there should be a natural person, as it is called, who can intervene if technology is going crazy. We have seen that, and even if it is not intended, it can happen, and therefore there is a requirement that there should be a physical person who can then take control of these devices when they run around. I would also like to make it clear that in the Left we are strongly in favour of innovation. We think it is good that some new technology is coming that makes everyday life easier, and one of the benefits of this is that these self-propelled units are actually running on power, and that is why they are helping to promote greener transport, they are helping to promote a better environment, and that is also very positive. So all in all, this is a very good proposal, and the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Denni Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022100852	As the two previous rapporteurs have said, this is, after all, about an experiment with self-propelled units. This is an area where the potential is huge, and I must admit that before I read the bill, the imagination was allowed to dribble out there. I sat there and imagined that it was about self-propelled taxis, or that there shouldn't be a charging station at home to the electric car, so that when you got home, you jumped out of the car, and then you drove it yourself and charged up at some big station, or that you had packages delivered, or that the doctor could send medicine out automatically, or that blind people could suddenly be allowed to drive because they have help with it. But I realized so quickly that this was not really what was involved in this draft law; that it was such a cautious first step, an experimental scheme with smaller vehicles, which, among other things, was. means it's not for passenger transport. Speed is max. 6 km/h, and this is in areas with limited traffic, as has already been described. In fact, I think it is quite reasonable that a soft start should be made so that we can draw some experience and expand from it, and then perhaps the imagination can become a reality later on, once some experience has come to light. But we think this is relatively limited and that it is a good area to get some experience in. So we think it's quite reasonable, and that's why the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101005	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101017	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left can support the bill. With this proposal, we are, after all, allowing tests on self-propelled units to be carried out on application. We warmly support the proposal and we are really looking forward to contributing to further adjustments in the future, because this attempt is, after all, only a modest start-up, and we must always have a regulation that matches the opportunities of technology and the needs of society. We think this is good and sensible, and we look forward to following developments in technology with future regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101049	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101056	Thank you. This is the first time that a transport proposal on the agenda has caused my group chairman, when he saw it, to exclaim at the group meeting: exciting! And so is it. There are, of course, a great many opportunities in technological development, both in relation to green conversion and efficiency, in a sound way, of course ^ and therefore the SF also supports this proposal. We attach great importance to this being done in a secure framework and to proceed with caution, and as I read it, it is also what we are doing with this. So that's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101136	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101151	Thank you. That is, of course, the advantage of getting a little down in the line of speeches, because then the proposal is presented by the rapporteurs so far, and then there is no need to spend time on it. No doubt that Enhedslisten supports this bill. We are pleased that it is limited to areas where there is only limited traffic but where traffic law applies after all. We see this as factory areas and institutional areas and such things, in and for themselves closed areas, but of course with public access, parking places, or whatever it may be, in a company. We are also pleased that this is not about passenger transport. Okay, we have an experimental system for passenger transport, so of course that is not necessary either. We can also see that there is a lot of talk about the so-called cargo mile, so it is very, very limited, also according to what I have just said, that we consider it to be in institutional and business areas and such things. Then, of course, we are pleased that these are emission-free vehicles, that is directly emphasised, and I think that is fine, we see that as being the way it is and that the speed is what it is, very low, 6 km/h. as a starting point, but up to 15 km/h. We are also pleased that the person who is to be able to intervene has an age requirement of 18 years. I think that makes sense. These are all the good things and these are the reasons why we support them. We also note that there is a response from the National Police and the Public Prosecutor, where there are demands in particular from the National Police for driving rights, so you need a driving licence. We can ignore that in the first place. However, I think that the police are trying to predict that this could also be quite large vehicles at some point. After all, no one says that it needs to be small, tiny vehicles running around at 6 km/h. It may well develop into large vehicles that also need to be loaded with some things. Perhaps one might consider that then there should be some power behind in terms of knowing how to behave in traffic, even if it is in a limited area. But okay, that's something we can live with, too. The police also point out that they cannot understand why, in future, the police should not be consulted for road safety assessments and for emergency assessment. We can't do that either. We think it is quite reasonable to hear the police, because it is the police who know about traffic in this country, and we think it should continue to be so. The response of the Ministry of Transport in the consultation note is that the Danish Trade Authority, to which the competence goes, is fully competent to deal with this. Yeah, well, maybe the Department of Commerce is. We think this is part of a major discussion. We believe that we have established that there is a huge drive at the moment for a resort transfer from the police to the Customs Authority. And we don't really like that very much, we're not too excited about that. In fact, we believe that traffic conditions, traffic conditions at all, should lie with the police, and we believe that this is somehow involved, and I do not know whether to call the power struggle that is going on between the Ministry of Justice and the police on the one hand and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport on the other, after the traffic law has moved and now belongs to the Ministry of Transport's resort. As I said, when it comes to traffic, be it control, be it supervision, be it what has to do with business at all, including this kind of thing, actually not so much with the Danish Trade Administration, we are more fond of the police in the Enhedslisten, and therefore we are not quite satisfied with this. This does not mean that we are not voting in favour of the draft law, but it is some things that we would like to try to drill in, both during committee reading, but also in general, because we think that there is a move from the police to the Customs Authority, which we are not enthusiastic about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101623	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101626	Yeah, and that's because I'm a little puzzled about this new-found friendship between the extreme left, who regularly has proselytes walking around making trouble in the streets, and then the police. Well, it's not usually the case that Enhedslisten and Enhedslisten support the police. It is almost customary, at least on the part of the Enhedslisten's supporters, to fight the police. The Danish Trade Administration has an overall view of society; that is to say, the advantages of creating a new rule, the liberalisation of a rule, traffic and the disadvantages are assessed. In their practice, the police only take a position on the disadvantages that may exist without having their eyes open to the benefits that may be. It seems that the police look very one-eyed on it and the National Police see very one-eyed on it, in other words alone as something that has something to do with the police's own work. Is it really Enhedslisten's view that the obsession of the police is what should form the basis for our rules in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101730	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101732	Well, I don't agree with the idea that the police are one-eyed. In fact, I believe that the police are making some solid assessments of movement, comprehension, and what else belongs, to ensure that the movement slips. And now this is in a closed area... you can always assess how much you have to make of it. But no, we're not rooting for the police, we're not. But we actually think the police are the best at assessing traffic in this country. They are already the ones who have to control the movement that is taking place, they are the ones who have to intervene when something happens. And then I think it is very sensible that they should also be heard when they are taking steps that have to do with traffic. And this has it. Although it is a small corner of it, although it takes place in defined areas etc. etc., that is where the traffic law applies, and that is why we think it makes sense for the police to be aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101828	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101830	The practice of the National Police in liberalising traffic regulations has been that the police have looked very isolatedly at whether it could pose a risk, however small, for several accidents, for example. And it has to be said that if you look at it in a holistic way, you have to weigh up a perhaps small, perhaps even microscopic risk of more accidents with the benefit of mobility in society, which is achieved by liberalising the rule. To claim that you have to listen extremely much to the police, who only look at the disadvantages and do not look at the benefits, I think is as one-eyed as the police themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101915	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101917	But I still don't agree that the police are one-eyed. I am still away from the view that the police provide solid assessments, including when assessing various road traffic actions. And the police have an expertise in this area, and we think that's a good thing. And then I feel the way I feel about the Department of Commerce, that there's a little too much... Yes, sir. Minister... over them. Yes, that's the way it is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen! They are part of what to say, the Ministry's territory, and therefore they are also much more loyal to a minister. I like that about the police, that is, the police aren't always.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101954	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022101957	Thank you. Well, that's refreshing news to hear from Mr. Henning Hyllested, and I quote: We love the police. Well, that's nice to hear, and I don't think it's always that sir. Henning Hyllested's partymates have been crazy about the police, historically speaking. That's nice. But I'm more puzzled by this scepticism expressed to the Danish Trade Administration. If Enhedslisten does not think that it is sensible to have a collection of things, so that those who are, like, responsible for the content of the Road Traffic Code and have the expertise, in relation to what is needed to prevent accidents, are those who issue rules on requirements for vehicles, etc.? There's a connection in those things. But that the police should of course be heard when we make rules, we agree. But does Enhedslisten really believe that it is the police who should have the responsibility that rightly belongs over at the Danish Trades Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102046	Really belong in the Department of Commerce? The fact is that things are slipping at the moment and that they are actually in two different places. In fact, we do not think that is sensible, because it is only going to get muddled up in the long run. Then, of course, you can say that we have to put it together in the Federal Service, and then it has to be there, or we have to put it together in the police. The police are in control of traffic, and they have the expertise, in terms of what makes traffic slip, illegal traffic etc. etc. That is why it is right, very sensible and I understand that the rapporteur also agrees with me that the police are actually being consulted on these things. And I think it's fine that the police have authority in this area as well. They're the ones who have to go in there and shove the chestnuts out of the fire, as they say, if something goes wrong. And then I think it makes sense if you have that expertise with the police, because then they also know a lot about why things go wrong. Therefore, I think that many of the things that are currently slipping over to the Danish Trade Administration should not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102148	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102149	But we fully agree that there must be a simple and quick procedure, and therefore the task must be in one place. There should not be too many cooks spoiling the food, and that is what we are trying to clean up, among other things. in the context of the ongoing police negotiations. However, I am very surprised that Henning Hyllested wants to have the task with the police, which has, of course, identified itself by having very long processing times to the detriment of business and transport as a whole. Finally, allow me to marvel at the fact that Mr. Henning Hyllested thinks there's too much • Yes, sir. Minister... over the Department of Commerce. Does Henning Hyllested really think that it should be the case that the office should not care what the minister says? After all, the Minister is accountable to the Folketing. So, if you mean it, you are in the process of putting democracy out of effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102231	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102233	Of course, I do not think so. Of course you're over-interpreted when you say something like that. It's almost clear that you do it. But when you're part of the system, there's more to it too, sir. Minister... over it than over a policeman coming out boom! We see that, among other things. with controls on heavy goods vehicles. That's where I'm really scared, too, if it slips over to the Department of Trade. I would prefer it to be policemen who are well trained and know what they are dealing with in this area that is coming out. The police need resources. They have been doing so for a very long time, and that is one of the reasons why it is established that there are long processing times and so on. But it has nothing to do with the fact that they are not good for the work they are assigned to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102312	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested and proceed in line with Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102326	Thank you very much. Oh, what a drama that has just played out on the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament. That is fantastic to hear in this debate. With regard to the "Yes, sir. " We can predict that this bill may end up with the Minister no longer having a driver saying yes to him, but that the Minister is just talking to his car. It is clear that the development and testing of self-propelled units is a really, very good thing. After all, we have run the experiments with self-propelled units on the closed systems in Aalborg, and it has worked well. There are both stakeholders in the Danish business community and in the research environment who are hungry for these solutions, so it is important that we get started. I see that the Peugeot dealer in Vejle, who at this time will have to switch to winter tyres on several cars, may suddenly have a driverless car that drives over to the tyre centre on the other side, thus saving the dealer perhaps a little bit of money and a little bit of labour. I think that's really, really good. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102431	There are no brief comments, which is why we now move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102450	Thank you so much. A great deal has been said on this platform about this bill, which I actually agree with, and it is actually just getting started making the legislation that makes this possible. So, of course, we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102510	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102520	Back in 2017, a completely unanimous Parliament adopted rules on self-propelled cars in Denmark. It was an experimental scheme in which, in order to be allowed to do these experiments, we had to meet very strict requirements. They were so strict that even Enhedslisten, which is otherwise the machine Stormer of Danish politics, could vote in favour of the proposal. They may have been too Well, I don't know if there's a single attempt, maybe two, where you've been allowed to drive these self-propelled cars. However, what we also found out at some point very soon after that was that the bill on pilot schemes with self-propelled cars did not allow for the possibility of having small self-propelled units running around mainly on sidewalks among people walking on their legs and delivering goods without driving around with passengers. The need only emerged when some companies approached and said: Well, we have practically a closed business area, but the roads do fall within the area of traffic. This means that we cannot be allowed to have any attempts to allow such small four-wheeled self-propelled units to deliver letters and goods and products between the different units of our company. Then work started making this law, and it's now ready. I think that what is being opened up to is really, really positive, and what may happen is really positive. I hope at some point that the law will be open to deliveries in places where there is quite ordinary traffic. I cannot quite see whether the law will possibly allow it when the time is ripe for it, that is, the fact that it is expressed that it should mostly take place in places where there is no real traffic. I do not know whether this is just an expression of the state of affairs that we are assessing today, while in future we will be able to allow it where this can really be done. Because where it can really bat, I think, and this is pure guesswork, is when shops, fast food restaurants, etc. see the possibility that they can deliver goods to customers via ordinary sidewalks where there is regular traffic. We must remember that when you move on the sidewalk, according to the law here it must only take place with a maximum. 6 km/h, i.e. about the same speed as a fast pedestrian, a person with long legs. So that's where the potential is. That is to say, when Mrs Jensen does not have to sell a man to do what you can simply put the food in a bag into a small self-propelled unit and then drives it out to Mrs Jensen, who then receives it at her front door and gets the food up. Or if a young person does, it is also us old people who do, but now we say that it is a young person who orders a pizza. Then it can drive down Vester Voldgade on the sidewalk to the place where the person lives with the pizza and deliver it without having a person involved in it. Then you might ask: does it not create unemployment for all the people who supply the goods today? What are they gonna do? They're gonna have to do something else. That is what is good about technological development: when machines can take over, people can use their workforce on other things where people need to do so instead of being able to outsource it to machines. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102934	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022102937	I would just like to make the point that when we are so concerned that there must be such reasonably narrow limits when we make such experimental arrangements, it is because we are concerned with people's lives and health. In view of the fact that we did not just give away what was to that extent, I do not want to say that we were in favour, but there were at least elements to be added to, in the experimental scheme, self-propelled units, i.e. cars and these kinds of vehicles for passenger transport, and, to that extent, originally, in this experimental scheme, it was because we were very concerned that those vehicles could not cause damage and that, if they were to do so, we should also be able to place a responsibility and this sort of thing. Of course, we are quite concerned about this. It has nothing to do with machine storms to the best of my knowledge; it has something to do with whether we care about people and their lives and health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103039	The rest of us are also concerned with people's lives and health, which is why they set rules for self-propelled cars. And it wasn't because Enhedslisten required those rules, but it was a pleasure for us to note that Enhedslisten could also vote in favour. However, we could have adopted it without necessarily voting in favour of the Enhedslisten. So that proves that the rest of us care about it too. But you can get a little nervous when even Enhedslisten votes in favour, because there it is usually the case that any small risk must stand in the way of progress. That's the balance you have to make. If you know any small risk: then we cannot, then there is virtually nothing of what we are already doing today that we can do. Then we cannot even drive a bicycle, because there is also a risk associated with it. It is actually quite risky to ride a bike, both for those riding the bike and those walking on the sidewalks and crossing the bike paths. There are many accidents with bicycles. But we do think that the good is much greater than the risk, and that approach must also be taken when new things come up, that if the good is much greater than the risk, then the risk itself should not be an argument for not doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103144	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103145	No, no, we don't really disagree about that. But what we are trying to be concerned about here is whether there is an unnecessary one, and I assume that there is agreement with Mr Beazley. Birk Olesen said that no unnecessary risk should be taken, even in the sacred name of progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103208	Yes, we agree on that. But I do not think we agree on when a risk is unnecessary and when it is necessary. I have the approach that a risk is worth taking if the good associated with the risk is so much greater. Enhedslisten's approach seems to be that we accept the existing risks of existing means of transport, but new means of transport must be cleaner than new snow. There must be no risk at all. If there is only the slightest small risk, you have to say no. But you shouldn't if the good is so much bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103244	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103253	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to express my unconditional thanks to all parties in the Danish Parliament for their support for the bill. After all, it is important that we keep up with technological developments, as many of the rapporteurs have also said. On the one hand, we must ensure this and, on the other hand, we must not compromise road safety in our zeal for technological development either. I also think that the debate in this Chamber has reflected very, very well, and we in the Ministry have tried to find that balance. And with the statements that have been made in broad terms here in the Danish Parliament, I think I can also say that I think it has also succeeded. But it is also clear that there have been some comments along the way in which I would just like to dive into. First of all, there is an indication that it is true, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, mentions that the National Police are putting forward views regarding the right to lead. And it is true that if you are in a situation sometime in the future where we are talking about some significantly larger units that might drive with larger quantities of goods, or whatever you might imagine it needed, then it may well be that there is a need for you to look at that part. In any case, it will require new legislation, that is to say, to change the size, to change the speed or otherwise of the vehicle, including where the vehicle may be driven. In other words, we have to go back to the Chamber and change the legal framework that is now being given. And we will then, of course, raise that question at that time. The same is true of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's pious hope for cargo-mile solutions, for it is clear that this technology obviously has the potential. That is quite obvious, and that is why it is the same again: it requires us to change the legislation that is now in place, the experimental system that is now in place. And it is also in the nature of things that when you make an experimental scheme, you also work continuously with technology before you arrive at a more permanent situation, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. After all, technological developments are under way, and hardly any of us can predict exactly where they are going, but at some point, of course, there will be a more permanent situation in which we can also have more sustainable legislation. And as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also mentions that there is legislation that allows for experiments with self-propelled cars and buses. Three permits have been granted and two more are under way, and it is true that this has been quite restrictive legislation, but it has to be said that some of the things that, among other things, have been done. We have had a lack of standardized vehicles from the major car manufacturers. This means that there have been no uniform type-approvals for vehicles in the EU and that this has been very much the challenge. The expectation is that, as technology develops in this area, more and more standardised vehicles will enter the market, and as soon as they enter, they will also find themselves in a situation where there are genuine EU type-approvals, and then the process will be much easier. Then there is just something in relation to Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen's excellent remarks, and perhaps it is a little modest: Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions that the vehicle can run at a speed similar to a pedestrian with long legs. We all know it's Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen himself, who is being talked about here, for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is known as a long leg and fast pedestrian. So that is quite correct. I do not know if it is on the basis of the inspiration that the speed has been set. I would also like to say to the excellent comment about the good thing about cycling that it is quite right, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions that there are both some health benefits in cycling, and that there are also some disadvantages, among others. the fact that people can get hurt, that they can lose their lives in road accidents, etc. That is precisely why, in the field of bicycles, we are discussing what is called the unit costs of transport, which have just been updated, moreover, I can tell you about. And it also turns out that it has an even better effect than hitherto assumed. So I fully agree with that view. Moreover, as regards the comments made, I should just like to point out that, of course, there is an opportunity for questions. As Mr. Henning Hyllested indicated that there could of course be some questions that need to be addressed to the legislative process, and of course we will make ourselves available for that. And it is also clear that, when we have experience of self-propelled units through the experimental scheme, we will be able to meet again in this Chamber and discuss whether to open up further the use of this type of unit. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103808	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103811	I welcome the remark that, of course, if developments give rise to the need for it, and it will be guaranteed at some point, for example. in larger vehicles, etc. The problem has already been raised, and that is how it is in relation to the right to drive, where I myself think that yes, okay, it may also be going as far as it is right now. But we already get it, because that is also mentioned in the comments on the legislative proposal, for example. With winter cleaning machines, and there are no small machines, at least not those I know of, and I do not think they will be smaller either because they are self-propelled. These are large machines, and many of the machines used require certificates. In any case, some of them require an amu course or whatever they do, and now it is mentioned in the legislative notes that you have to have knowledge of the traffic law. You might also have to be aware that if you're going to operate this kind of machine, you have to be trained to do it somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103920	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022103922	Thank you. It is clear that many opportunities will be opened up by using this. I would now say that if you imagine a smaller machine which, for example, has to sweep a path system in an area, for example. On the ground of a company, it is likely that some machines of a slightly smaller size can be used. It could, for example, be done. be something the size of the grass robot that drives home in my garden. It's like they're driving around the halls of the hospitals. They cannot then run a very large unit, and it is, moreover, a unit which does not in itself require a driver's right to operate it; even though the Minister has the right to drive it, I must stress that it is certainly not necessary to be able to use such a machine. We already know these self-propelled units from, for example. a number of hospitals in Denmark that use on a closed ground, but they will be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104029	Sir. Henning Hyllested? No, there are no further brief comments, which is why we thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104044	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104058	Thank you, President. This bill provides for a change in the law on roads, the law on private common roads and the law on road traffic. The reason for the proposal is, among other things, that: the distribution of rental wheels in the country's major cities, where it has been found that the current rules are not sufficient. New rules are proposed where the new type of rental concept, which is characterised by not having a fixed rental place, does not need a permit from the municipality to use the road area for rental, but concludes agreements with the municipality. In this context, it is also proposed that the rental vehicles should be located in the infrastructure or area in which they are located for the purpose of renting out. This is an approach which must help to ensure orderly conditions so that vehicles are not placed at the disadvantage of others. In the context of the new requirement for location in the infrastructure or area set up for that purpose, a number of specific enforcement tools are being proposed. The municipalities themselves have asked for this. The proposal therefore allows municipalities to remove the rental vehicles if they are available for rental and are not located in the infrastructure or area set up for that purpose. Removal may take place without prior consultation. If the municipality removes a rental vehicle in accordance with the new rules, the vehicle shall be brought to a storage place where the rental operator can have his vehicle returned. In doing so, the Road Authority may require payment for the administration that has been involved. Hopefully, this will help to create better incentives for rental operators to make sure that their customers place the vehicles correctly at the end of use and not just throw them on the street to great inconvenience to others, including, for example, those who do not have to pay for them. partially sighted or wheelchair users. Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility for municipalities to decide politically whether they want rental vehicles other than rental bicycles in the city at all. Compared to the proposed changes to the Road Traffic Act, it is not unknown that many bicycles are located in the streets without being used. For example: The City of Copenhagen in its cycling report from 2019 has made it clear that Copenhagen alone was approx. 32,000 bereaved bikes, and that are estimated to be left approx. 10,000 bicycles a year in Copenhagen. There are still some numbers that can be felt. Some municipalities are already removing dead bicycles, but it is unclear whether the municipalities are entitled to do so in the Road Traffic Act. The bill will therefore give the municipalities a clear legal basis for removing the so-called dead bicycles. Before a bicycle must be removed, there must be a prior consultation of at least 4 weeks. The hearing must be carried out clearly on the bike, probably with tape or the like. By removing it the owner can indicate that the bike is being used. After the removal of the so-called dead bikes, the Road Authority must check whether a bike has been reported stolen. If that is not the case, the Road Authority will have the opportunity to sell the bicycles or give them away for non-profit purposes. In addition, the draft law amends the rules to impose parking charges. A change to section 122a of the Road Traffic Code is proposed, which will give the municipalities and the Danish Road Traffic Authority a safe legal basis to be able to impose three parking charges for the same offence on the municipal road network or on the state road network. Finally, the municipalities are allowed to completely remove vehicles which have been subject to three parking charges for the same offence from the public road area. Municipalities may only remove a vehicle after a prior consultation of 4 weeks. The consultation shall help to ensure that the vehicle owner is able to remove the vehicle himself. In a four-week consultation, it must also be possible to take account of the fact that, for example, people who are on vacation or the like will have time to react. With this bill, we then give the municipalities the necessary space to dispose of and organise their public roads themselves with a view to special rental concepts that have made their entry into Denmark in recent years. It is good for the citizens, it is good for the autonomy that municipalities should have to organise their own urban spaces, and that is why the Social Democrats support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104522	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104526	Thank you. Most of the bill is really, really good. It is good that the rental of both bicycles and scooters from public areas is managed. It is good that it will be easier to remove dead bicycles and also dead cars. One element is the big controversy in this, and it skates Thomas Jensen over with five words. It is that the government will allow municipalities to discriminate against legal vehicles for rental on the territory of the municipality, in other words discriminate in the way that they say that yes, it is allowed to rent bicycles from the municipality's area if they comply with the rules. But even if you live up to the rules, the municipality must be able to prohibit the rental of scooters. - Sir... Thomas Jensen does not see what a slant it is that they say: we have some legal means of transport and there is really no reason why one should be banned and the other should not be banned and yet the government allows the municipality to discriminate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104635	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104637	Discrimination is probably a big word to take in the mouth in this context, I would say. After all, electric wheels are a new mode of transport that has come in. It is then also in competition with a very well-established mode of transport, especially for example. here in the country's largest city, here in the capital, where fortunately there are real, very many who use bikes. And when I have cycled around here in the capital, I have also learned that electric wheels can help to influence our bicycle culture in an unfortunately negative direction. There are some road safety problems with electric wheels. In other words, there are a lot of things we need to learn. Citizens need to learn to move around electric wheels. That is why I think it makes sense for us to allow municipalities to decide for themselves how electric wheels should be allowed to spread in cities and what regulation they want locally. That is why I see this as being that we are now going to start introducing this new mode of transport, and in this way we will have a good system so that it does not adversely affect the other modes of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104745	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104747	Fortunately, the government is not going to allow municipalities to ban electric wheels in the municipalities after all. The government will only allow municipalities to prohibit the rental of electric wheels in the municipalities. Doesn't it strike at all, sir? Thomas Jensen, that the only municipality that asks for it is the only municipality that has its own rental company for bicycles and that therefore wants to eliminate competition for the transport customers out there and to protect its own rental company for bicycles by prohibiting the rental of electric wheels, namely the City of Copenhagen and the City Bike?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104826	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104827	So, what kind of intentions lie in the City of Copenhagen, one must, of course, take up the debate on the upcoming elections to the citizens' representation, where I know that the questioner will also be very active. On the part of the Danish Parliament, I think it is important that we focus on a new mode of transport and that we allow the municipalities to be flexible within it. If there is something about some rental in the bicycle sector, I think it should be taken up in the election campaign for the citizens' representation elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104900	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104902	Thank you. With this bill, the municipalities are allowed to determine the number of electric wheels you can rent out, but not the number of bicycles that can be rented out; that is not part of it. In fact, a lot of consultation answers call for almost all the municipalities... even the Cyclist League and others are calling for it, my own party is calling for it too. So I just want to know why the Social Democrats do not have that confidence: that is, as a municipality, you can manage the number of electric wheels, but not the number of rental bicycles. Why should these two things not be the same, so that they can also be exercised?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022104939	I think it is super positive that we have a capital which is known for its cycling culture. There are tourists coming here, renting a bike and going around and enjoying our capital, and there is a need for lots of bikes for that purpose. And that's where I think it's good that you have the opportunity to rent those bikes. On the other hand, I can see that there is a need for some local politicians, for example. Here in Copenhagen, which will be able to regulate the number of electric wheels with this bill if it is adopted, because it is simply a new mode of transport which has come in and which may have some positive elements but, as indeed, we have seen so far, have a number of negative elements. And that's why it's important that we get this tool given for local decision-making to regulate the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105032	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105035	Well, I think everyone can see that there are advantages to having bikes, including rental bikes. But why is it that you do not have confidence that the municipal councils can see it as well? So why can't they decide for themselves whether there's a need for 1,000, 10,000 or 1 million rental bikes? There are examples from other cities around Europe that they have been flooded by cheap Chinese rental bikes. Why can't the municipality get that tool and the confidence that they can handle it themselves? It is a bit strange when you hear the Prime Minister in his opening speech saying: now we are giving the municipalities free, now they must be allowed to have more freedom. But exactly the number of rental bikes they can't handle there they can't see the benefits of it. They should not be allowed to decide that it should be governed by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105111	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105113	Well, normally some of the parties sitting on the right in the Chamber are also in favour of a little competition. There is also the possibility of a good competition in the bicycle sector out there, which offers new cycling concepts and thus provides something for both the citizens of the metropolitan area and also for tourists. I think it is only positive that we have the opportunity to do so within the legislation in force. And we will not change that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105138	Mette Thiesen, New Citizen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105140	Thank you so much. Well, that's kind of in line with what my colleague from the Danish People's Party has just asked about. I was also very surprised when I read this bill that there is so little confidence in municipal autonomy and in the knowledge that they have in the municipalities, both in relation to the municipality's infrastructure, to the road network in general and to areas where you can put these things. After all, they are the ones who have to make the bicycle stands available for the rental bikes. Does the Social Democratic Party really think that it is in here from Christiansborg that you have to decide things like this, or do you really think that it can easily be decentralized out in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105222	So, with this bill, we are giving more autonomy to the municipalities by letting them decide in this area, the rental of electric wheels, and that is a strengthening of local decision-making power, I would say. That we then think it is sensible to have good competition in the field of bicycles to be able to offer different concepts there, for example. In our cycling capital, I think it's just positive. So we have good faith in the municipalities in general and that politicians in the municipalities can make a lot of decisions. However, right in this area, it has been primarily about electric wheels and about ensuring good regulation on it. And that is what we are giving the municipalities the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105305	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105307	The electric wheel thing is absolutely correct. The only problem is that you do not have the same opportunity in the municipalities with regard to rental bikes. And in fact, one of the hearing answers quite specifically says something about these bicycle stands, for example at the stations, and about what happens if they get filled up with rental bikes, so that all those who have their own bikes are suddenly unable to put it down, etc. So there's some distraction in this. Why is it specific that this bill goes in and makes a difference on how to assess the number of rental bikes in the municipalities or how many electric wheels there should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105340	Well, this proposal has the main focus on electric wheels and companies that rent them out, because there is simply a specific problem with the fact that you have not been able to work properly in connection with especially parking after the end of the use of electric wheels. In relation to the rental of bicycles, i.e. whether it is going to flow with so many bicycles that there are no parking options, I would say that there is a natural restriction: if there are some rental companies that do not earn money because competition is too tough on the market, then there are bicycles that will be removed from the market and therefore also from the bicycle racks. That is why I do not see that the problem is so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105415	Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105416	But with this bill, the municipalities will not even be able to say no to making an agreement if you consider that there is plenty of capacity, that there are plenty of bicycles. You will not even be able to go in and make a tender or yes, you can, but you will not be able to say no if someone comes outside the tender, if I may say so, and yet would like to make bicycles available for rental. You don't even get the chance to say no to that. I think that these are extreme restrictions on rental bikes placed on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105459	Well again, to repeat myself: We focus here on solving the problems with the electric wheels, where we can see that there have been major problems. For example, if you go... Here from Christiansborg and over to the metro station over at Kongens Nytorv, you have been falling over electric wheels up to several times. So that's what's in focus here; it's making sure we get proper regulation so that this new mode of transport via rental companies gets much better. So it hasn't been with the focus on making such an equality between electric wheels and bicycles that we've made this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105537	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105539	No, but that's what's puzzling. Because I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is primarily about electric wheels, which have been a nuisance. This is a very good legislative proposal in this area, no doubt about it. But we're just wondering why you don't look at the same thing and give the same opportunity to the bikes when you're doing it anyway, that is why you separate it from each other. I simply do not understand what the background is for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105605	Well again: We have to solve a problem, and we seek to do so here by giving a local decision-making power in the field of electric wheels. Then we must constantly see if there is anything in relation to bicycles that should be seen on. However, in our bicycle capital here I now think that the market looks fine, and we also need to safeguard the cycling culture that exists, and that is one of them. That is why we need to fix the conditions for the electric wheels so that the electric wheels do not come in and destroy the good bicycle culture that we have here in the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022105648	Thank you for that, President. What is experienced, among other things. in Copenhagen, is of course a picture that electric wheels are thrown randomly, many times on even the sidewalk, where people must move, and in particular pedestrians are bothered. Older and hard-to-go, but also partially sighted citizens have pointed to this as a major problem. We also see a picture that there is chaos around many of the bicycle parking areas that are established, because there are too few racks, and in general there is a need to clean up all of this. That's what this bill is about. We have also got some new vehicles such as this. electric wheels, which we must take into account. In the Left we welcome new vehicles. If we think back to the end of the 1800s, not many of us have experienced that, but historically there was a great deal of scepticism about the new, amazing vehicle that had been invented, the automobile, and there were many who were really angry about it and afraid of it. Some rules were introduced in this Chamber, namely that a man with a red flag had to go in front of the car to drive it. So there has always been a natural scepticism about new vehicles and what safety risks that could entail, and of course there is also in relation to our electric wheels. But this isn't about banning what somebody has misunderstood about this bill. I have been asked whether they will now ban these electric wheels and other of these new electric vehicles, but that is not what this is about. It is a matter of getting things sorted out, and we welcome that in the Left. It's especially these electric wheels, and it's well documented that there's a problem. Recently an excellent book called "Stop Traffic egoisme" was published, and in that book it is documented, even with photo, how this problem exists, among other things. in the city room in Copenhagen. So something needs to be done about it. That is why we welcome the proposal that, when the municipalities allow these landlords, there should also be rules on where the vehicles can be parked properly so that they are not a nuisance to anyone. That's a really good idea, we think. As far as bicycles are concerned, there is also a need to get it under control. We think it is a good thing that dead bicycles • those who have just stood for months, maybe even years can be removed, because they fill up, so that the lack of car parking capacity becomes even greater. Then get rid of them. Then we can even get some recycling in, because it is completely insane from an environmental and recycling point of view that there are just such bikes there and are dead. They have to be removed, and then they have to be auctioned off, and then they have to be used again, and then they have even got a little money for good purposes. So it is also very good that it is included in the bill. It is also a good thing, and I would like to pay tribute to this, that cars that have been parked for a long time and where there are one parking tickets after another in the window are being removed. Away with them, because it cannot be that they have to fill up in urban space when we have the problem in Copenhagen that we have far too few parking spaces. It is, of course, a general problem in advance. So it is also very good; praise for it. What I would like to say is a little wondering about the discrimination that exists on bicycles and electric wheels. We fully agree with the government when it says that it wants to promote cycling, because that is very good, and we in the Left would like to do so too. But the question is, is this the right way to do it by doing this discrimination? If you just have free rental rights for an unlimited number of bicycles in e.g. Copenhagen, what is the point of renting out, for example? 100,000 bikes if there's only room to park 50,000? Then there is the chaos that many of the consultation answers actually foresee, and that is why I think that this is something we should look at together in committee, in other words how it really is, whether it is the right way to promote cycling, because we agree on that. So all in all, we think there are a lot of good bets in this bill. We need to get these vehicles under control, we need to get things sorted out, we need to clean up so people don't go and fall over the vehicles, and the city picture around must look nice. That's why the Left can support the bill, but we'd like to take a closer look at this with unlimited bikes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110133	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And that's why we can move on to Mr. Denni Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110142	This bill, as has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs, deals with the rental of, among other things. bicycles and electric wheels, both of which can be a good alternative to cars: they take up less space and pollute less, and it is also quite healthy to cycle. But there have also been some annoyances for many people, and this has been especially in relation to the electric wheels recently, because people feel that they have been thrown quite randomly many times and have been able to fall over them. It is a problem for people who are difficult to walk or have difficulty seeing and other things. And it is clear that the number obviously matters when people experience that they are thrown around and people may feel insecure in traffic. So I think it is quite positive that we have here a clearer framework for how to regulate it, i.e. how many there can be, and that we can lay down requirements on where they must be parked, where to use what is called geofencing, i.e. through gps and also where to drive. Well, on the sidewalk you may not have to drive at all, or perhaps at reduced speed. But then I will also address the issue that I have experienced several times described in the newspapers, i.e. that drunk people jump on such an electric wheel when they go home in their fires after having had a lot of beer. One might say that a demand from a municipality could be that after 1 p.m. 23.00 can't rent an electric wheel, and then it's the same for everyone who rents out in Copenhagen, for example. It is quite good, in fact, to allow the municipalities to better regulate these things, so that many of the problems that I have experienced have been out there and which I think many of us have received inquiries about. I also agree with the two previous rapporteurs that it is good to clean up recommended bicycles. Well, I think there are a lot of things that just stand and fill out there and where it might be quite reasonable to try to free up that capacity in the bike racks so that other people can have their bikes properly parked. However, there is one thing in this bill that I am worried about and that I disagree with. We have already discussed this in the debate and that is the difference in relation to whether you rent electric wheels or just regular bicycles. This means that as a municipality you can handle well and have to handle how many rental wheels there should be, but must not help determine how many bicycles there may be. And I've noticed that there are a lot of the answers to the hearings and the answers come from Vejle Municipality to Aalborg and Aarhus Municipalities and from the Cyclist Association, almost the whole record full, where they say that it's a little weird that you shouldn't regulate it. And out in the municipalities you can also see that there are huge advantages in that people cycle, and by that there is I find it strange that you do not have confidence that the municipal councils can handle it themselves. In other words, the previous rapporteur quite rightly said that if you can see that there is a capacity of 100,000 compared to parking facilities for bicycles, and there may be some coming and flooding it with cheap Chinese rental bikes, then we clearly have a problem. And there I think it is obvious that we are giving the municipalities an opportunity to regulate it. So I think we should clearly have that in committee, including an amendment if it suggests that there can be a majority to deal with this. At any rate, I have noticed from questions from the Left, but also from the Enhedslisten and New Citizens that there is a common agenda here that we must have looked at. Because when there are so many consultation answers that all point in the same direction, I think we owe them an extra look at it. As a starting point, we in the Danish People's Party are very much in favour of this bill, which provides a clearer framework, but there is, as I said, the part with rental bikes that we would like to have looked at more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110512	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110516	There are a lot of good things in this bill that we can wholeheartedly support, but there is also one element that we think is very worrying. I would like to know what the Danish People's Party's view of this is. In this country, it is the Folketing that decides which means of transport are legal in the field of traffic law. It is not the municipalities which decide which means of transport are legal in the field of traffic law. It's the Folketing. This bill opens the way for the municipalities to be able to say that, in practice, the City of Copenhagen, which has a horn in the side of anything other than the municipality of Copenhagen's own rental of bicycles, must be given the opportunity to say that yes, yes, you must probably drive on a scooter in Copenhagen, because that is what the Danish Parliament decides, but we do decide that in the municipality of Copenhagen you can only rent bicycles. You can't rent a scooter. What does the Danish People's Party think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110612	Basically, I think that this is a proper definition, namely that we decide which vehicles are legal, and then the municipalities must decide what must be rented on their land in a professional manner. They also decide where to put a sausage cart. There must not just be an infinite number of sausage cars in the city picture, and they must not stand where they think it is funny. It's up to the municipality. I think it is quite obvious that you also have to decide what must then be of the rental of bicycles • how many, where to stand, where to rent. That is, of course, part of municipal self-government regulation, and I think that is quite reasonable. But then there is an independent problem in the fact that Copenhagen has its own company, and of course they should not be allowed to sit and favour it. I have actually noticed in the hearings that some of what you want is how to handle these things. Because it had now been said that a maximum of 600 electric wheels must be rented out, and you already have two suppliers with 300 each, and there will be one more, who also wants to enter the market, how will you handle it? They do, for example. I didn't get an answer to this consultation note, which we're also getting. So it is a good problem that needs to be resolved, because of course it should not be the case that, as a municipality, you can set up a company and then you can outcompete and keep the others out. But that it is the municipality that has the right of decision on how to deal with it on municipal land, I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110716	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110719	I think the municipality must regulate this, but the municipality must not make any difference. And that is what the law opens up, namely that the municipality must make difference So, those who would like to transport themselves with a rental bike should be allowed. To those who want to transport themselves with a rental wheel, the municipality must be able to say no. And I don't understand why you can back that up. If a municipality has some rules that you are allowed to set up food trucks, food trucks, around, but that the municipality then decides that pork may not be served from the food trucks or food trucks, because there are some who cannot find out how to eat it, would the Danish People's Party say that it is quite all right that the municipality discriminates in this way? Or does the Danish People's Party have limits on how much municipalities must discriminate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110805	Well, I actually agree with the basics of it, so it is strange that the municipality should regulate electric wheels, but not electric bicycles. That is precisely why I am also arguing that they should then be allowed to regulate both. Of course, you can go to the other ditch and say that they should not be allowed to regulate either. However, I agree that it should be either or: either you should not regulate either bicycles or scooters, or you should regulate both. I have just gone over to the side where I think we should be allowed to regulate both and have confidence that the municipal councils themselves will be able to handle this properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110831	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110846	We are radically prepared to support the proposal. There are a number of components which have been highlighted by the previous rapporteur and which are not controversial for us either, such as the rules on the disposal of bicycles that have stood still for a long time, and cars as well. In relation to electric wheels, it has to be said that in future electric wheel operators will have to have an agreement with the municipalities, and the municipalities have asked for this. I am therefore a warm supporter of the electric wheels, but I recognise the municipality's right to decide on this issue. So my hope is that the municipalities can find a local regulation that fits so that this market doesn't stop or disappear. I am prepared to support it. I recognise that there is a discussion in the Chamber right now about whether this is a positive discrimination for bicycle rental. However, I recognise that this is a sought-after regulation by the municipalities of a new market, and I think we should give them that right. And then I am prepared to look at it again if similar wishes arise from the municipalities about regulating the number of bicycles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110951	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022110955	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen says that this is a desired regulation, and therefore it must be delivered. Well, it's new that the Radical Left has the view that when someone wants regulation, it just has to be delivered by the Folketing. But it has been noted. Everyone knows that there is one municipality asking for the possibility of banning the rental of scooters... one municipality... and that is the City of Copenhagen. Everyone knows that the City of Copenhagen is doing this and wants it here because the City of Copenhagen has its own rental business for bicycles. Does the Radical Left really think that it is right that the City of Copenhagen should have the opportunity to ban competitors who provide scooters, i.e. competitors of the municipality's own bicycle rental business? Does the Radical Left think it is right that the Folketing should provide the legislation which allows the City of Copenhagen to discriminate against competitors for their own rental business?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111100	Thank you. I do not recognise the premise in the question, namely that the regulation of electric wheels will favour Copenhagen's own bicycle rental; I think there is a very weak connection between those parts. It's my impression that these scooters have their own market and their own users, and that it's not a one-way competitive situation between electric wheels and electric bicycles from the City of Copenhagen's bicycle rental. I would be more concerned about allowing the City of Copenhagen to regulate the bicycle rental market, which I believe is in more direct competition with the City of Copenhagen's own business. As far as this is concerned, when someone asks about the right to competence, in this case, the municipalities say that they can regulate this themselves sensibly, I acknowledge it. After all, it is not just anyone I would put up with if they wanted to be allowed to regulate. But when the municipalities ask for permission to regulate traffic conditions, I say: of course, let them do so!
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111152	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111156	Fortunately, it is still the Folketing that regulates traffic conditions, namely the rules in the area of traffic law. This is about whether the municipalities must make a difference in their policy, in relation to the fact that the rental of means of transport can take place under certain rules and that the municipality must then have the opportunity to say: We do not like the scooters because they are in competition with our own city bike system. I fully agree that it would be even more intrusive if the municipality could also ban other bicycles. However, this is intrusive and is intended to prevent competition for the municipality's own bicycle rental.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111235	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111239	Thank you. I do not recognise that this is the purpose of the municipality. I acknowledge, however, that the municipality has needed to make some agreements with the providers of these electric wheels, because there have been many complaints and problems with the setting up of scooters when they are not in use. However, I do not believe that it is the competitive situation with regard to urban bicycles that is crucial here. I recognise that the municipalities want to regulate this because there are problems with the recommendation of those vehicles that are not in use.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111303	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111307	Thank you. The rapporteur is right, of course, that the municipalities have asked for a clearer framework for how to regulate electric wheels in particular, but if you look at the consultation answers, which I am well aware of the rapporteur also read, then virtually everyone wants to be allowed to regulate the number of rental bicycles as well. So I'm actually just wondering if sir... Rasmus Helveg Petersen agrees that the authority should also be given to the municipality. I believe and trust that, as a municipal council, one can see the advantage of the fact that there are rental bikes, but also some problems in it if one is not allowed to set a limit. One can imagine that the market is being flooded by perhaps cheap Chinese rental bikes or other things that may not be appropriate. So is the Radical Left in favour of giving them the opportunity to regulate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111355	Thank you. My background to saying yes to this decentralisation of power to the municipalities, where they can then make some regulation on the electric wheels, is not that there are too many electric wheels, but that there is a problem with the recommendation of them. And so I actually separate the discussion about electric wheels from the discussion about bicycles. I think these are two different questions. And no, I am not immediately prepared to say that municipalities should be allowed to regulate the bicycle market, among other things. because the City of Copenhagen, which has requested it, is itself the operator of a rental bike system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111425	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111429	But what is strange was that in the rapporteur's speech the main argument was that it had been demanded from the municipalities, and therefore it was crucial that the Folketing allowed them to do so. The consultation answers show that there is a clear demand from a wide range of municipalities because they would like to be allowed to regulate the number of bicycles as well. What is it that does not trust that they, as municipal councillors, can deal with it? If they set the number too low, people can be upset about it, and then they can choose some other council members. If they think that the city picture is being flooded by cheap rental bikes, then they can be angry about it and then choose some other council members. Why is it that you do not have confidence that they can manage it locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111503	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111505	Thank you. I believe that the discussion differs in two ways: firstly, that the municipality, which has been most active in getting regulation on the electric wheels, is itself the provider of a bicycle rental, and secondly, that these electric wheels have given some new and unexpected challenges in the city picture that have not been shared with the bicycles in the same way, namely those recommended scooters that are not in use and that stand here and piste. So I think the discussions are different, and that is why I am also prepared to say yes to this regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111530	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111543	When I have discussed electric wheels with them in our hinterland, which are very critical of electric wheels, among others. I have often been told by the SFs who live in Copenhagen that the reason I like them is that I am under 30 years old. But I can just look around the Chamber and see that it is a completely malicious and erroneous conspiracy theory that it should be some age-related theory. And it's kind of nice. I think it is clear that there is a problem with the electric wheels. I like electric wheels, and I have also used them, but I also hear from the City of Copenhagen and, as such, from city councils elsewhere in the country that they want some tools to regulate this. I think we are giving them that with what is now in place. I have also taken note of some concerns, among others. I think we should look at this in committee and perhaps follow up at a later stage if there is a need to do more. But the starting point for me and for SF is that we will get something done about the challenge that electric wheels have been and continue to be, especially in the Copenhagen area, and that is why we support in the main what lies there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111711	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111715	I think we all agree that it is a challenge for electric wheels, like bicycles, to be thrown in different places where they stand in the way. Therefore, large parts of the bill provide for municipalities to be able to require them to be recommended in the right places in order for operators to be allowed to be in the city. It is handled by the rules so that the municipalities can impose requirements on the operator that the electric wheels should stand in certain places and not elsewhere, as a condition for the operator to be in the city. Why should there be an opportunity next to it that the City of Copenhagen should be able to say: In our city there must be no
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111807	Because what we care most about on this issue is the citizens who live in the city and the autonomy that the City of Copenhagen has been given by us from here to take account of the citizens. I have listened very carefully to what has been said both by our own urban roots, but also by other parties' urban roots, among others. in the City of Copenhagen, and they very clearly demand a set of rules and frameworks that make it easier for them. Personally, I think it's a real pain in the ass, I don't think I'm allowed to say that (President No, you can't) that we have to regulate this. Because I have been plenty of other places in the world where there are electric wheels, and it seems to be working quite well without many of the measures that we are proposing here. But I relate to reality, and the reality is that when I look out the window, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111903	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111906	I do not think it is annoying that we should allow municipalities to regulate where electric wheels should be set. I think that is quite right. This possibility must be given to the municipalities. They must be able to tell operators who do not know where the electric wheels stand: you will not be allowed to be in our city, because you do not know where the electric wheels stand. I think that's really good. What I am asking the SF's rapporteur is: why, alongside these rules, should we allow the City of Copenhagen to completely prohibit the rental of electric wheels, since the other rules allow power wheels to be controlled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111941	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022111945	I think I have actually answered that question. Because if, as a municipality, you have that need and your citizens have that need, I think it is something we should give the opportunity to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112000	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112009	We also think that this is a quite sensible legislative proposal, because it is, after all, putting in place a regulation of not least the electric wheels. It is of course no secret that we originally think that electric wheels, segways and whatever else it is called should be banned in ordinary traffic and that we consider it mostly a toy which actually belongs on decorated lanes. But since this cannot be the case because we are quite alone with the view, I fully agree with that, I think it is a good thing that the municipalities, the road authority, have the opportunity to limit the use of electric wheels for rental, including reducing the number. We think that is very sensible. The problem is that the same does not apply to bicycles. Now we have been through a long debate on this, and I think that the consultation answers are quite clear here, both from the municipalities that have given the consultation answers, from the Council for Safe Transport, from the Cyclist League and so on. etc. What I also mentioned in one of my questions is that you cannot even say no to an agreement if an operator comes in and wants to come in. Of course, you have to help shape it and you have to agree on the agreement, but you cannot say no to making an agreement, even if you really think there is plenty of capacity in advance. You cannot make an invitation to tender, where a new operator will then come and say that they will also be allowed to do so, and then reject that operator. We think this is something weird, and it is therefore to deprive the municipality of the ability to manage, if I may say so, developments in this area, to manage the capacity that exists. To some extent, this is a limited capacity. It is limited what is of bicycle racks. We know the problems around stations and other traffic and bicycle hubs, compared to how the bicycle racks are stuffed with bicycles, and the bicycles are even outside the bicycle racks, etc. etc. I know that you will have the opportunity to remove bicycles, but it does not solve the fundamental problem that you can be imposed on an over-capacity of bicycles because there is a whole lot that wants to enter the market and rent out bicycles. We think this is a really bad idea. That is why we think we should listen to the answers to the hearings. I think we owe it to them, even when they are as clear as they are and that we should listen to the wishes of the municipalities to make things the same for scooters and for bicycles. It can be done very simply in reality: Aarhus and Aalborg Municipalities have suggested simply that §§ 80a and 80b be merged into a new § 80b, which then also includes bicycles. Then the problem has been solved, and then the municipalities must also regulate the number. That's how simple it can really be done. I expect that, depending on how the committee procedure is carried out, we will table it as an amendment to the legislative proposal at second reading. Moreover, we can also support the proposal to remove vehicles which have received a parking charge for the same offence three times.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112351	Thank you. There is just one brief comment to Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112356	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his support for the proposal. I just want to correct something when it comes to bicycles and the municipality's ability to regulate bicycle rental. I do not know whether the rapporteur has the bill on the platform, but on page 6, line 30 it says: "The right to place bicycles only applies if it is a genuine rental concept. If this is not the case, the road authorities will not be obliged to conclude an agreement with an operator. There are therefore some opportunities for local authorities today. That is just what I would like to correct, because I have been able to hear from the debate here that it is going a little wrong. So it was actually just a comment to the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112441	Yeah, that's right, and I've read it too. But the actual bicycle rental agencies, who would like to be allowed to rent out a bike, cannot refuse, and it doesn't matter whether you make it as a call for tender or what you do, you basically cannot regulate it. And we think that is unfortunate. It is bad for the municipality to be deprived of that opportunity, and we cannot understand why that difference should be made. Because it is possible for electric wheels to be made available, and I do not know if it is because it has become so clear that those electric wheels are floating everywhere, and people are falling over them, the disabled organisations have also drawn attention to the problem in their hearing but, in the case of the bicycle, we do not think that that possibility should be there. We do not really understand that discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112527	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112531	I'm just gonna hang on to the bike thing. If you consider that it is not a serious company locally, then there is an opportunity for you not to enter into an agreement with them, which is why there are now tools at local level. It is just to ensure that we do not get the debate completely off the rails. After all, we all agree on the electric wheels, but I would also just like to clear it up with the bikes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112554	That does not give rise to so many comments. It is true that, if it is not serious, the municipality can, of course, reject it, and I think that is sensible enough for one to do so. But there can be a dispute about whether this is serious or not serious, and then it requires data as to how much is rented out, how much is being run, and histop and come down here. It can quickly become a big case that the municipality needs to spend a lot of money and resources on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112613	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112617	I'd like to challenge sir. Henning Hyllested's view that electric wheels flow everywhere, especially in comparison to bicycles. After all, there can be no place near a public transport hub without the space being made for a bicycle parking lot, although that is not what it should be used for. The bikes are all over the place, and this legislation cannot actually do anything about it, because it is required that there has been a note on the bike for 4 weeks before it can be removed. If you go to Vanløse Square, which is right next to a really nice bicycle parker, there are bikes all over the place, while down in the bike parker there are empty racks; it is because there is a little longer way to walk from the parking garage up to the metro than there is from the square. So when you hear Enhedslisten's demonization of the scooters that they flow everywhere you can understand that it's all about being against the new and supporting the old.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112727	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112729	I do not know what the rapporteur has to do with the Enhedslisten, but I think that the rapporteur is trying very hard to demonise Enhedslisten as machine stormers and against everything new. Well, we're not. I think this example is very good, because we want equality between bicycles and electric wheels. Electric wheels are floating everywhere and you can see that by walking around the city. They float everywhere, they fill the sidewalks, they float in the middle of the sidewalk, so you fall over them, especially if you are weak-sighted, etc. etc. And the bikes float everywhere, too. That's right. I also see that, for example. bicycle parking scales stand empty, while the bikes float around above, outside of bicycle racks and all sorts. So there is a need for regulation. And I think that one of the options for regulation that should be for a municipality is also to be able to regulate the number of rental bicycles.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112822	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112825	If you were a younger person who was born yesterday and went out to Copenhagen and were asked what is flowing in Copenhagen, then you would answer: Wow, the bikes are flowing, they are all over the place. The question could then be asked: What about electric wheels? Then you would answer: Oh, yes, there were some of them. But Mr. Henning Hyllested is used to watching bikes flow all over the place. Sir. Henning Hyllested is not used to seeing electric wheels float to a limited extent. And Mr. Henning Hyllested is against the new, Enhedslisten is against the new, so bikes must float everything they want but electric wheels are very important to beat down on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112903	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112905	No, the bikes can't float all over the place. The bikes float at some hubs, stations, bus terminals, and elsewhere around the city, where you can say that there is such a bike hub. That's right, they do. It just screams that things are being regulated, and I cannot understand why there should be the difference between regulating the electric wheels which, in my best opinion, and after all, also many others' wheels actually lie and float, and then bikes. Then we can also have a regulation of bicycles standing and floating.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112941	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022112950	Thank you very much. Often when I move around the city picture in Denmark, both in Copenhagen, Vejle, Aarhus and Odense etc., I see bikes and I see scooters floating on the streets and alleys. And besides the fact that it's awful to watch, it's dangerous. The other night I had to move two scooters that were floating over here on the bike path when I was on my way to Thunderskjoldsgade. It is dangerous in itself, and it is particularly dangerous after nightfall, for example. people who go home from the Folketing and come cycling a late evening can almost overturn the scooter. But I have also had to remove bicycles which are lying and flowing several times. So there are a lot of good things in this bill that we are really, really happy about as a starting point. However, we may think that, after three parking fees for the same parking errors, compared to a car that may have been parked for a little while due to vacation or the like, perhaps it is just fresh enough to want to remove the vehicle. It is also clear that this whole debate about rental bikes shows that you are being put out differently in the municipalities than you do in relation to, for example. electric wheels, and we don't like that, so to speak. So let me put it this way: at best, at this stage we are somewhat weary of this proposal as a whole, but we are looking forward to following the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113122	Thank you. No one has signed up for comments on Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. And then Mrs. Mette Thiesen is from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113141	I think it has been a very good debate, which has also highlighted some points. So let us be completely honest and say that this is a legislative proposal which brings together quite an extremely large number of elements, and I must at least stand as weaver than the Conservative People's Party does. Of course there are some good things that are specified in this, so you just get more clarity on how to make these agreements out in the municipalities. But there is also the essence of this where you actually go in and make it possible to ban some vehicles, but not others. And that's where I think it's weird, compared to that possibility. That is to say, we have just a general belief in municipal autonomy and that in the municipalities you can make agreements with those who rent legal vehicles, in relation to how they can stand in different places in the municipality, and whether it is true or not at all. There we do not think that Christiansborg needs to go in and put this part of the ban into it. So we are very sceptical about that and we certainly need answers to some more questions. Of course, as I started by saying, there are also some good parts in this proposal, but we cannot support what is currently before us and need answers to a number of more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113314	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen, and there is no one in the queue here either. So we give the floor to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113327	Thank you. This bill contains many good things and one bad thing. Let me start with the good thing first: we agree that it is something artificial that today there is no possibility of granting more parking tickets to cars that last for days in the same place, and that it must be possible to allocate more parking tickets to them, and even that it should be possible for municipalities to remove those cars without the involvement of the police, which can often be busy if they consider it necessary. We also agree that it should be possible to warn bike owners that their bike will be removed in 4 weeks' time if the bike lasts somewhere and has been doing so for a long time, and that then you should be able to remove the bike. We also agree that there is a need for rules for the rental of bicycles as well as scooters, allowing municipalities to impose requirements on the location of these bicycles and racing wheels when they are not in use, so that they are not places where they are a nuisance, and that operators should be deprived of the opportunity to operate the rental business if they are unable to comply with the agreements that have been concluded to an adequate extent. The latter should, of course, be enough in relation to the genes experienced in connection with specific electric wheels. Well, it is genes that are experienced when you walk on the sidewalk and there is an electric wheel in the middle of the sidewalk, where it has been recommended by the last user, and then the scooter stands there waiting for the next user to come. The gene can be solved with the part of the legislation here which says that if the operators cannot find a way of meeting the agreement with the municipality that the scooters should be set aside where they do not stand in the way, then the operator may lose the right to operate the rental business. It can solve the genes involved. But next to that there is an opportunity in the draft law here that municipalities, where, for one reason or another, you do not like electric wheels, may decide to ban the rental of electric wheels altogether. In other words, even if the operators meet the requirements as to where the electric wheels should stand, and even if the electric wheels are not in places where they are a nuisance, it is still necessary, as a municipality, to be able to prohibit the rental of electric wheels in the municipality. This rule is particularly sought by the City of Copenhagen, which has its own bicycle rental business, which goes really, really bad, because the municipality has chosen a concept with some hugely expensive bicycles, where any small trip from the station and one kilometre to a destination must be made on a city bike, which is big and heavy and white and with electric motor, instead of being able to just jump on a small electric wheel or a bicycle without an electric motor. And then, with a law, we have to allow that municipality, that is, the City of Copenhagen, to exterminate competitors who rent electric wheels to protect the rather foolish concept of city bicycle rental that the municipality has come up with and has lost 100 million. kr. On. If you know that this is the reason why you want to discriminate against rental wheels, then you should not, as Parliament, consider seriously complying with the municipality's wishes here. There are lots of people who want to transport themselves around with a rental wheel. People who take the train in from Ballerup to Copenhagen to work and who, when they are at work, have to transport themselves around the city to something can just jump on an electric wheel and transport themselves where they need to, and transport themselves back to the workplace. And when they go home, they go down to the station and take the train home. Why should they not have fulfilled their needs? Why should it be possible for the municipality to say: No, no, we can see that you want to do this because we can see that people are driving out there? However, the City of Copenhagen must nevertheless be given the opportunity to ban it, because the City of Copenhagen has a bicycle rental company which must be favoured. I do not think it is right to give the municipalities this opportunity to discriminate. So only then will we have to vote against the draft law, even though it contains many good things too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113833	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022113843	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their many comments on this matter. These are, of course, positive comments on the various elements of the draft law. First of all, this is a proposal that has been going on for a long time and in which we have had a close dialogue with the municipalities that have worked with the electric wheels. We have involved their experience in active party involvement. It is also something that we have regularly involved the parties of the Danish Parliament in the work on, and that is why it is not surprising that the bill is there now, among other things. also because the original plan was that it should have been put forward in the last assembly of parliaments. Some covid-19 came in and caused disruption to it, so this, along with a number of other bills, had to be postponed to the current parliament assembly. Now, as I have said, we are here and must first and foremost provide an overview of the concept of special rot in public space. There had been a few points of view along the way which I feel a little obliged to elaborate. One is that the question of electric wheels is, by its very nature, about giving the municipalities the right to determine the public road area. Thus it is true that it also allows municipalities to decide that there are certain types of rental vehicles, but not bicycles which cannot be rented in what is called free floating fleets, from the public road area. However, this does not mean that it is not possible to rent an electric wheel in a particular municipality, for example. This would then require that it should not be done via the public road area if the municipality had decided to do so. So it is a question of ensuring that municipalities are able to determine their own road area, the public road area. It is true that when we stand here today and discuss this issue, and especially with a view to the country's capital, Copenhagen and the City of Copenhagen, it is because, if I may say so, the City of Copenhagen has made an advance on the pleasures of having already, before the law here is first-read or adopted in the Danish Parliament, taken a decision on how to deal with this issue, provided that the law is adopted as provided. It is, of course, a rather special situation to stand in, you might say. It's probably not something we're used to at first sight. What is also a little interesting, however, is that the rental companies of electric wheels seem to have also advanced the pleasures, because it is actually true that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen points out that there is not nearly the same amount of electric wheels lying and floating in the streets now as there has been in the past. That is, of course, because some of the measures have been preceded by advance payments by the rental companies themselves. So even if Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from Conservatives has been so resourceful both to remove electric wheels and bikes from the bike path, and thanks for that, so that others do not fall over them or any other thanks on behalf of society for the efforts that have been made, it is clear that the fact that there has been a public debate on this issue has, of course, also led to a number of players pointing in this direction. In relation to the bicycles, I would like to draw attention to the comments made by the law, page 6, which specifies the requirements that may be imposed on rental companies wishing to rent bicycles. For in the same way that you have the opportunity to enter a municipality, and indicate that here is a given road area where you can rent electric wheels from the river, you can use the new indicator, which can be used either on the sign or on the road area itself, which limits where you can rent electric wheels from the river, so you can also specify from which you can rent rental bikes that are in free floating, i.e. Not bicycles which are rented out of a store area, but otherwise, and thus you can also limit this rental. Like that, among other things. As pointed out in the observations made by the Act, it will be possible to identify an area such as: is a pedestrian street, so you cannot rent either bicycles or electric wheels, which can make incredibly good sense because you are not allowed to ride on electric wheels. You can also apply geofencing requirements, and you can also impose requirements on the rental companies... both electric wheel owners and bicycle owners... that they should be serious. This means, for example, that it is possible to prevent very cheap bicycles coming in, which are simply intended to float in public spaces with a view to being, for example, advertising pillars. That is not the intention. It is precisely the intention that this should be used to strengthen the appearance of public space. What I also think is important is to look a little bit at the experience of rental bikes, by the way. We may often tend to assume that rental vehicles are often used by tourists. I think we've all seen tourists who drive around a little, and get on bikes and electric wheels, by the way, around the country's cities. It may not always seem that they have control of either their own safety or, for that matter, the traffic rules. But what's actually a little interesting is that the experience from the landlords of bicycles points in the direction that it is 70 per cent. of all those who rent bicycles, which are either commuters or local residents. And this emphasizes that rental bicycles are also used as part of the link between public transport and accessibility in this context. To be sure that everyone understands the full possibilities for municipalities to be able to limit and set a framework for rental bikes, I would like to offer that, under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport, we are doing a technical review of the possibilities provided by the law in relation to the municipalities. I think it could be useful for everyone to go deeper into it, and we will contact the Secretariat of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in order to offer that such a technical review can be set up as soon as possible after the first reading and before we get too far in the further progress of the committee's proceedings. So, in good time before the second reading, we have the opportunity, on the one hand, to have a technical review and, on the other hand, to have the members of the committee and the transport rapporteurs also have the opportunity to ask questions in the legislative process on the basis of the technical examination. With the proposal now before us, it is possible, as I have said, to set out the detailed guidelines for bicycles, electric wheels and, in principle, other types of rental vehicles which may come in the future. As mentioned above, there is a difference between rental bicycles and other small rental vehicles. And this is because the government is working to spread cycling as much as possible. In this respect, it is a matter for the government whether cycling is spread through the use of their own bicycles or bicycles for hire. What is crucial is that the more people, like bicycles, the better it is for the environment, for public health and for the even more widespread use of flexible mobility solutions in cities. The latest calculations made in this area, transport economic unit costs, point to the fact that the relationship between cycling and public health is so clear that the positive effects on the use of the bicycle are clearly better than we have previously thought. It's about 8 kroner that society gets as a gain for every cycling mile that citizens use. It is clear, of course, that this can only lead to the greatest possible promotion of cycling. In addition, the difference between bicycles and other small rental vehicles is also due to the fact that the necessary bicycle infrastructure already exists in the Danish cities, for example. bicycle racks, bicycle sheds, and the same does not apply to other small rental vehicles. It is true that there will naturally be a need, as Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens emphasised, for rental bicycles to be placed close to public transport. It is thus part of the strength by giving commuters the opportunity to transport themselves. But here too it will be clear that one will be able to identify a particular area where, for example, it is estimated that there should be no possibility of placing bicycles for rental. And what is really worth emphasising is that if it is the case that a bicycle is for hire and it is not in the infrastructure designed for that purpose, then it will be possible to remove it. Unlike the stray bike that part of the proposal is about, it will be possible to remove this rental bike, that is, immediately without consultation, in the same way as has been put up for electric wheels. In relation to the other proposals, i.e. in relation to dead bicycles, there has been a broad indication that it makes good sense to adapt to the proposed. I have also noted that the Conservatives have concerns about long-term parking cars. I would say that the elements we have taken into account here, in the sense that there can also be involvement of the police, etc., should ensure that there is sufficient legal certainty here too. But we are happy to return to that in the work of the committee. With these comments, I would like to thank you for your support. I fully agree that in the forthcoming committee work we have some elements that we need to clarify and which, among other things, we need to clarify. The SF's rapporteur has mentioned, we need to look at the concerns raised by various speakers from the consultation responses. But, of course, we will discuss this further, including in the technical review. And, if there are any requests for a technical examination of other things from the proposal, I would, of course, be happy to hear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115048	Thank you. I have two signed-ins for the moment, and that's first, sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115057	A technical review is fine; it is always good, you might say. However, does the Minister not agree that the consultation responses received from the municipalities of Aalborg, Aarhus, Vejle, Copenhagen and Frederiksberg are quite clear in their desire to also be able to regulate the number of rental bikes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115132	There is indeed a desire for this, and that is also why I would point out that the draft law contains a large number of requirements that can be made for the rental of bicycles. Because I can well understand the concern that there may be untrue landlords coming in or that, for that matter, there may be an area, for example. in front of a store area where a bicyclesmith rents his own bikes, and where it had to be estimated that it is therefore inappropriate that there are other types of bicycles to rent. The municipality will be able to define this quite clearly. And if there is a rental vehicle there, which should not be there, then we also allow the municipality to be able to remove the rental vehicle, on top of that for the landlord's account. This must be assumed to offer some opportunities. So I would say that with the possibilities of legal bases laid down in the legislation, we will actually have the opportunity to set quite clear and clear limits to this without restricting cycling by the way. Because we have a common interest in promoting cycling as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115237	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115240	I recognise that the draft law offers some scope for the municipalities to intervene, as the Minister points out, in relation to precisely what to say, frivolous people who want to rent bicycles or whatever they want. But the problem is that there are too many bicycles and rental companies; it is not that the landlords are irresponsible. This leads, in the municipality's view, to too many bicycles for rental, so that you have an over-capacity and difficulty in managing it around in connection with having enough bicycle racks and sufficient capacity in the bicycle racks around.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115328	Indeed, one of the clear descriptions contained in the comments on the proposal also says that it is possible to impose requirements on how fleet monitoring, for example, is to work. This means that GPS must be able to locate the rental vehicles that are used by free floating. This is quite essential because it will give the overall view of where the bicycles are located, even if they are inappropriately located. If you look at the city picture in the Danish cities, there may well be many bicycles, but it is not the case that the sober viewer must say that it flows with incredibly many rental bikes. There are many bikes, but there are not many rental bikes, so I find it hard to believe that it can be such a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115418	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115424	Thank you, sir. President. I would just like to ask a few questions about the discrimination we have mentioned and which has been put up between electric wheels and bicycles, and ask whether it does not impress the Minister that there are consultation answers from Vejle, Aalborg and Aarhus Municipalities, who believe that the same rules should apply to rental bicycles as to other rental vehicles, so there is a possibility of regulating both solutions on equal terms and the same way. What really is the basic argument for the difference that has been proposed here with the bill when municipalities all over the country ask for the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115500	But it is quite simple that we want to promote cycling as much as possible. By setting an upper limit on the number of bicycles, for example. In the City of Copenhagen we had to say that there must be a maximum of 1,000 rental bikes in the city streets, so we could in principle find ourselves in a situation where there will not be enough rental vehicles to promote cycling. And it is clearly for the benefit of the economy that as many people as possible cycle. However, there are exactly the same possibilities for restricting the location of rental vehicles: they must either be in a bicycle stand or in some other way a place where the infrastructure is intended for it. And you can also identify areas where rental vehicles are not allowed to stand in a pedestrian street or somewhere else where it is inappropriate for them to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115602	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115604	Yes, but the difference is that when it comes to bicycles, the municipality cannot say no to more bicycles if that is what it wants from the landlord. That's the difference. And what if the infrastructure is not sufficient? That's what many people are pointing to: that there's already completely filled up around here. Well, isn't there a need for a local overview? And I guess it's the municipality that has that overview and can regulate it here. That is why I do not think there is any coherence in it. However, as I said, this is something we would like to ask about in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115632	If there is a specific place where capacity is exhausted, then there will also be some scope for imposing restrictions on the ability of rental vehicles to be in that place. But it has to be said that it will generally be the case that a municipality also has an interest in promoting cycling, because overall it helps to promote public health. So that element should not be forgotten in this context, in other words that setting an upper limit on the number of vehicles may be inappropriate for public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115710	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115713	After all, there are many of us who have found that it would be good if both bicycles and scooters were better managed on public land. For both things often stand in the way of one's being able to move freely. We agree, I think, that I hope, and I would ask the Minister of Transport to confirm that it is the rules set out in this proposed legislation that you should be able to impose requirements on landlords in free floating concepts of both bikes and scooters that will ensure that they do not float all over the place. The next rule, which is that municipalities should be able to say specifically that they do not want to have rental wheels within the municipality limit, has nothing to do with wanting to prevent them from standing and flowing places where they should not flow. It has something to do with what the Minister of Transport honestly said, namely that the government wants to favour bicycles at the expense of scooters. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115828	At any rate, it is very difficult to imagine that there should be rules that there should not be bicycles in the public space, all the time that we have defined very many places where bicycles should be used and that, moreover, the municipalities have established a lot of bicycle parking. What this is about is the use of that part of the public space which does not currently have bicycle stands, and that is where we allow the municipalities to define how it is used themselves. And also a clear frame, if there is to be electric wheels, in relation to: what should the painting on the road area be like? So there is no doubt that this is where you can actually park your electric wheel. Because we also need to make sure that if we define certain areas where they may well be, then we should not be in doubt either as a landlord or as a user of the electric wheels. I think that, to be quite honest, is probably part of the problem that has been so far, so that there has actually been a lack of clarity as to where it was actually okay to park.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115934	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022115936	Unfortunately, that was a more unclear answer than the Minister's speech. Because in the Minister's speech it was clear that we are dealing with the fact that scooters are floating, through the rules that the municipalities are allowed to enforce, about where the scooters should stand, while the fact that the municipalities should have the opportunity to completely prohibit the rental of scooters in free floating concepts has nothing to do with preventing them from standing where they should not stand. This has something to do with the government wanting to favour bicycles at the expense of scooters. In other words, it is a real social democrat who says this: we are social democrats; we know better what people have to transport themselves on, and therefore we want to favour bicycles at the expense of scooters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120021	Now, sir. Ole Birk Olesen himself mentioned earlier in the debate that there may be municipalities which have some own interests in certain rental concepts of bicycles. Therefore, there should be no doubt that the government may well have a concern that this could lead to a total reduction in the number of bicycles in a given municipality, which could thus also lead to a reduction in the promotion of public health. It really has nothing to do with the electric wheels and the connection with them, but it is precisely the fact that we want to promote public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120056	Then no one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Space
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120109	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120130	Thank you, President. This bill contains four themes. It is about the nationality register, it is about the working environment, it is about reporting events, and it is about extending Denmark's participation in the Scandinavian aviation cooperation. The nationality register is a register of all civil aircraft registered in Denmark. Here the proposal is that it should be made possible digitally and in a differentiated format to publish the information on aircraft with Danish registration. This means that everyone has the opportunity to see technical information about Danish-registered aircraft via a self-service solution. The self-service solution, which also contains information about the owners and users of the aircraft, will have limited access. Access to this information requires an authorisation which the Danish Road Traffic Authority may grant to public authorities and private companies which have a professional relationship with aviation. The system is similar to the one we know from the motor vehicle area. The amendment of the health and safety rules is about bringing the safety and health rules into line with the general provisions of the Law on Safety and Health at Work. The proposal brings air transport legislation into line with the actual situation in this area. The purpose of the event reporting rules is to ensure that the responsible aviation authority receives as much information as possible about events. The experience of the reported events is used to improve aviation safety, and in particular the focus is on preventing similar events from occurring. The proposed rules should make it possible to implement uniform rules on the reporting of events in the field of aviation throughout the Kingdom Community. It is about the obligation to report should include the same group of persons, the type of event, etc., regardless of where in the community the event has occurred. Uniform reporting rules should also follow uniform rules on when penalties can be expected and when reporting results in impunity. There shall be no doubt about the reporting basis or about the consequences of the non-reporting of an event. That is why it is important for the legislative proposal to have uniform rules and to remove any doubts. This helps to raise air safety. The last part of the bill repeals Law No. 340 of 14 May 1997 on the extension of Denmark's participation in the Scandinavian aviation cooperation. Since 1975, there have been no economic provisions in the law, but the three Scandinavian countries have repeatedly concluded a separate agreement on the non-negotiability of the government agreement for a period of time in order to ensure predictability and stability in air transport cooperation. The law has now exhausted its content and is no longer necessary for Denmark's participation in the Scandinavian aviation cooperation, as the cooperation can continue according to the government's general foreign policy powers under Section 19 of the Constitution. Therefore, the law should be repealed for reasons of order. In conclusion, it is emphasised that Denmark will still be equally committed to cooperating on aviation with Norway and Sweden. On the basis of this, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120500	Thank you for that, sir. Thomas Jensen. No one has asked for the floor for questions or comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120511	Thank you for that, President. The bill, which we are to deal with today, helps to abolish Denmark's participation in the Scandinavian aviation cooperation and to change the reports on safety-related events and to publish the nationality register of aircraft. In relation to the Scandinavian cooperation that we have been in since 1950, we see no reason to maintain it in its present form, since cooperation has been exhausted and should therefore be abolished for reasons of order. In addition, it is proposed that the register of nationality of aircraft be published, as it is currently dealt with individually under the public access rules. Since the aviation industry and other stakeholders make extensive use of the information, we also consider it necessary to take account of a more flexible solution that can respond to the need for information in the industry. We therefore support the addition of a digital user platform on the board's website with a self-service function, so that the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority can more effectively pass on the necessary information that the aviation industry and other stakeholders need to obtain. Of course, it is important to say here that this should be done under controlled conditions so that the information is not freely available to everyone and with continued respect for the sensitive information which the public law has been intended to protect. Finally, the draft law also proposes that rules on occurrence reports should be amended in order not least to be able to implement the most recent EU regulation in this area. In addition, the amendments will promote a more uniform framework for reporting all types of aviation security-related events across the Kingdom community, and this will also apply to Danish-registered aircraft not covered by EU rules in the field and by the rules on impunity related to reporting. We can only support that, so the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120711	Thank you, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left. We need to move on in the rapporteur's line, and now it's Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120726	Thank you, sir. President. After all, a proverb says "all good times three" and if you had to follow it, I should simply choose to say almost the same thing as Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democrats and Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt of the Left said. But I will not do that, because there is not much to disagree about in relation to that bill; we might as well admit that it is common sense. And it's nice that we can agree on that after all. And it's also for the benefit of the industry... it brings some improvements in relation to a more up-to-date piece of legislation. I would like to mention in particular that, after all, we can also welcome the fact that with this bill there will be a law less in Denmark, as well as a remarkably insignificant law. I could mention many other laws that I would rather get rid of, such as the blasphemy law or others, but now we are talking about deregulation. There is a law that disappears, a law that no longer benefits anything. So not surprisingly, I can report that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120834	Thank you. We need to move forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120848	Thank you. Like the three previous speakers, the Radical Left supports the proposal. We think that all four elements are perfectly acceptable and appropriate and without much controversial political content. With regard to the repeal of the law on participation in SAS, it is, of course, always good to remove superfluous laws and, as far as the other three elements are concerned, we see no problems in this, but on the contrary a well-founded explanation of why it has now come to this. So we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120920	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no questions or comments on the rapporteur here either. Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120931	Thank you. For us in the SF, there's not much to raffle about either. We think this is very good and I agree with the vast majority of the comments made by the previous rapporteurs. So we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120947	There were no questions about this either, so we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022120958	It's a good thing we have sir. Thomas Jensen and, in this case, Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, for some very, very fine and thorough reviews. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Should have forgotten to read the bill yourself, you can just stick to Mr. Thomas Jensen or Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt. Now I haven't forgotten to read the bill, but I don't really have anything to add. We are pleased, I would say, that the Minister for Transport has responded to the hearing of the cabin crew's union and of the Association of Occupational Flights, that the practice so far is maintained that employees too can convene meetings of the Working Environment Organisation, so that we do not just have to deal with that one conference every year, if that is to say the need arises. We think that is very good, so we vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121101	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121109	Thank you very much. I guess it's gonna be hard to spend all the minutes and seconds on the red clock up here. Of course, we support the draft law and, of course, we support the idea that we should not have costly and slow working procedures in seeking technical information or using information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121135	Thank you. I can't see Mrs. Mette Thiesen. She's actually the next one in the order. But then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121146	The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the bill, and I should say from Mrs Mette Thiesen that so will the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121156	It's just before we set a record today. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121208	Thank you for the floor, President. Now I had actually prepared a long examination of the single elements of the draft law, but as several of the rapporteurs have mentioned, it has, of course, been properly examined by several of the first rapporteurs, both the Social Democrat and the Socialist Group. Thomas Jensen and Mr. Left. Hans Christian Schmidt. So, with the comments that have been made, I would like to thank you for the clear support of the parliamentary parties for the bill. If there are any questions which still need to be clarified in the work of the committee, we are, of course, at the disposal of it. And for the further work, I look forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121254	Nor is a 45-second ministerial speech commonplace. Thank you, we'll tell the Minister of Transport. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121312	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121330	Thank you, President. The proposal mainly concerns two areas: the fixing of the safety tax and the regulation of liability limits. With the safety charge, it is the case that the airlines pay a tax to the Transport, Construction and Housing Board for each passenger carried by the company. The tax is referred to as the safety tax and is laid down directly in the Aviation Act. The main purpose of the charge is to maintain a high level of safety for civil aviation in Denmark. The safety charge finances the tasks of the Transport, Construction and Housing Board which concern the supervision of civil aviation in the broad sense. In other words, the tax also finances the supervision of operators who are not subject to the tax but who carry out an activity which is relevant to the safety of air passengers. It could, for example, be done. be an air carrier exclusively engaged in the carriage of goods, or technical personnel such as: mechanics, aircraft workshops and the like. The tax is paid by both Danish and foreign airlines flying passengers from a Danish airport which is open to the public. In practice, the tax is paid by passengers, since the companies have the possibility of adding the tax to the fares. The fee in 2021 will be DKK 4 with the bill. and 75 øre, and it is proposed that the safety tax rate be set at a new level from 1 January 2022, and this will be the original level of 6 kr. To date, the safety tax has been regulated once a year, but due to the covid-19 pandemic and uncertainty over the level of activity in the aviation sector, it is necessary to postpone the regulatory mechanism until the level of activity in the aviation sector has stabilised. The proposal therefore provides for the new adjustment of the tax rate only with effect from 1 January 2025. The draft law also contains a proposal to regulate the liability limits applicable in the event of damage to passengers, baggage or goods. Overall, it can be said that the limits on liability constitute the financial framework within which, in certain situations, an air carrier may be objectively liable in relation to damage. The liability limits constitute the maximum framework for the carrier's liability, regardless of whether the carrier is responsible for the damage. The proposed regulation of liability limits applies to airlines from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but also applies to air carriers from third countries, i.e. non-EU countries and EEA cooperation. In addition, the proposed liability limits apply to EU air carriers in the case of compensation for damage to goods, but not in the case of damage to passengers and baggage. Such damage is instead covered by an EU regulation. Finally, a linguistic amendment is proposed to the sexually significant pronouns contained in the Aviation Act, so that gender-neutral concepts are used instead. On the basis of this, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121644	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. We need to move forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121656	The draft law we are discussing today involves a proposal to determine the amount of the safety tax rate. After all, the safety charge covers the costs associated with the tasks of the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority in relation to the supervision of civil aviation. The Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent closure of Denmark have led to enormous uncertainty in the aviation industry, and since Denmark has a high level of safety in the aviation sector and it is also something that we absolutely must continue to ensure during the corona crisis, we also support the proposal, of course. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parties for the cooperation that those of us who have made these air transport packages have had and where we have found some sensible solutions to help the airports of the country, and that, of course, also applies to the Minister. We in the Left are very concerned about the fact that the whole aviation industry is getting through the crisis, and that is why we are following developments very closely and also expect us to be called to meetings in the future when decisions are to be taken, and this can be done more quickly than we can almost predict, because there is already a risk that there may be some change in travel restrictions. We'll have to look into that when it comes. We also welcome the proposal for the proposed increase in the tax, mostly because it is the way we have agreed with each other that it always happens. It is not because we like taxes and charges, but it is because that is what we have agreed with each other to ensure effective supervision of air transport, and this effective supervision of air transport will also benefit passengers. And it is also the case that we in the Left give this priority, and that is what we are going to do with the legislative proposal. However, it is important that the proposed changes do not have any negative impact on the framework conditions of companies, and in an unpredictable time like the one we are in at the moment, it is of course important that we ensure good framework conditions for aviation and its many players so that they can act quickly during the corona crisis. This was not to say that someone had other intentions, but we would like to describe that this is our intention and that we must ensure it at this time. Finally, the draft law also proposes to regulate the liability of airlines from Greenland, the Faroe Islands and third countries in the event of damage to passengers, baggage and goods. Danish companies are automatically subject to the Montreal Convention of 1999 as a result of Danish membership of the EU. So the Left can say that all in all we think it is a sensible legislative proposal, which we have more or less agreed with each other that we support, since we have made the aviation package. So we can support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121932	Thank you. Then it's the Danish People's Party, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022121942	After all, we quickly got through the previous bill, because there wasn't much to come for, you could say, other than all good things. In this case, it is quite the same, and it is a bill that we can also support, I would like to say in a hurry to reassure the Minister. But if you have to look for hair in the soup, they can actually be found in this bill. This may not have much to do with the transport minister's area of resort, but the Danish People's Party has noted that there is something about gender neutrality in the Minister's written submission of this bill. Then, of course, you look a second time and get a little curious and think, "Hey, hey, how can equality debates and everything else suddenly make its entry into something a little boring as a transport policy?" But apparently it can in this case, because you think you have found a small place where you use gender designations such as he, his and him in the aviation law. Yeah, that's probably something you've done for various reasons when you wrote the law. However, it has come to my attention that there will then also be a discussion about whether it is now necessary to change legislation because of some kind of office junk, which in itself can basically be completely godless. But then it comes out that there are grammatical genders and there are biological genders. In this case, for example. say that a ship is usually female. There are not many ships, for example. Name's Børge. There are a lot of people named Emma and everything else. And if you look at the French language, for example. So, la voiture... a car in French... yes, female. This means that all cars that drive around France are female. I guess the men will have to put up with driving them. Of course, one can have a little fun about whether it is fair now, but that is the way the language is quite quirky in many respects. I just think I would mention it, because this should not turn into such a slippery slope, where you have counter popes employed to fool or fool yourself in what some otherwise very good legislation says as something as safe as for example. Air Transport Act. Then it is a process in which officials have been set up, and I would like to warn against it. In this particular case, allow me to skip that part of it and say that we take it as a curiosity in the Danish People's Party. We think it is sensible to have equality of course. We have always advocated this, but we may also think that the small hairs in the soup in the ministry are a little down when you sit and spend time on the kind of legislative changes that are being considered in the Folketing. But, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122258	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. In German, when we talk cars at least, it's naughty. You can't say that about sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, who has the floor here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122316	Thank you. The Radical Left, like the other parties, can support the proposal to increase and set the safety tax at DKK 6. In the future. And I don't want to get involved in the gender debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122331	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122343	The SF can also support the proposal immediately, but we have a slight concern which I do not seem to be fully clarified by reading, among other things. hearing answers, etc. It is also intended to abolish the requirement for a farm health service and not directly introduce something to replace it... Is it another proposal? Well, I'm sorry, then my notes are messed up. But we can certainly support this with the safety tax. I have, of course, had some comments with the Minister for Transport, including in the Committee on European Affairs, and immediately we think it is very good that the challenges that aviation will face in the future due to corona are being met. Of course, it requires that you follow up on whether the need is growing gradually and that you also have a certain critical sense of what will now be demanded by the industry. However, as the situation now stands, we can easily support it, subject to the fact that we must, of course, keep the discussion going.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122505	Thank you. We are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122517	We don't have much to add either. Of course, based on the consultation answer from the Association of Business Flights, are the rates really enough? Are they there 4,75 kroner, which we are on in 2021, and the 6 kroner. From 2022 to 2025, so enough to cover the expenses? As I have said, the concern of the Danish Transport Authority is whether it could possibly lead to terminations by the Transport Authority among the staff involved in the oversight of air transport. It may well be that the Minister can already answer that question in his ministerial speech. It is clear that the covid-19 has so much changed the situation and the situation, and it is clear that it is what is, what to say, the concern: what is the activity at that time, and will one be able to raise enough money to have a high level of supervision carried out by the Road Traffic Authority? After all, we would not want to get into the same situation as there were moves around Naviair, where it was trying to agree on agreements with the employees out there to man it, and where at least the employees were out to say that they thought they were gambling a little with air safety here. It's another matter, I know, but it's a little bit connected anyway. Then, of course, I can't help saying that mr. Hans Christian Schmidt provokes me a little, because he quite rightly points out that it may be that the travel restrictions that are being adopted today make the flight stand again completely. And then we may have to meet again and create a new aviation package. I would like to point out that it was Enhedslisten together with SF and the Alternative, of course, not a part of it, and we were not, because it was created by what should we call the controversy, where, as we said, it is fine to support aviation, but then we must set some of the green counterclaims that aviation itself has actually put forward. After all, we on the Enhedslisten side were some of those who were out to praise the climate partnership for aviation, at the time when they presented their report, for being quite visionary and also really realistic to a certain extent. That is just what we think should have been seen in the air transport package, and it was domestic aviation that was involved in that air transport package, that is to say that they were taken at the same time and said: let us see some concrete results, let us set some targets that you could perhaps reach in 2025 and in that way. That did not happen, and that is why we were not included in the aviation package. Just that comment, because Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt just came to the side of the matter too. But we support the bill unreservedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122829	No one has asked for comments. So here it is, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122839	Thank you very much. You're almost tempted to start with the "sehr geehrte Women und the Lord," but I don't want to do that. I would just like to say that, as a starting point, we think that any tax is a tax, but, having said that, of course, we also support this proposal. We would also like to thank V, K, R and S for the fine, fine negotiations we had on saving aviation. I guess we're gonna get back together and have them back together. In this connection, I should also like to welcome not only the new rapporteur from the Radical Left, but also the new rapporteur from the Radical Left. We are very much looking forward to our cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122918	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022122940	Thank you so much. Well, I don't think there's so much more to add than what has already been said about this bill. These are some, what to say, minor regulations and some changes to some things, among others. Because of the covid-19. I simply have to point out here that one simply writes into a bill that one needs to use gender-neutral pronouns. Maybe I think that's kind of stupid to be completely honest with you. Well, I don't think anyone gets offended by the fact that it says "his" or "her" or that you start using these gender-neutral expressions. So it was kind of just a little sticking pill that sometimes you can edit pretty indifferent and stupid things in a law, things that are really right, yeah, no matter. But otherwise we will have no further comments and we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123037	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123045	The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123050	Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123100	Thank you, Mr President, thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Thank you for the broad support for the bill. I noted that the SF made a comment on the previous proposal, L 40. It is noted and I think we will have a written question on it so that we can clarify that part of it. To the Left and Conservatives, who welcomed the aviation package, I would just like to thank them for their cooperation and also thank the Radical Left for that part of it. Both the Danish People's Party and New Citizens highlight the issue of gender-neutral terms. In this context, I should like to say that it is not a completely new decision on Danish legislation that gender-neutral terms should be used. It is actually a somewhat old decision that dates back to 1980. So you could say that exactly on this point we have been a little behind with the corrections, and we are getting that straightened out now. However, I have, I must say, questioned with the Transport, Construction and Housing Board whether it should be the case that the fact that we have not linked the gender-neutral terms in this legislation should have had any meaning; whether anyone has felt offended or otherwise. And that, I am happy to announce, is not the case. On the other hand, we can then rejoice that the language is not divided into male or female, but rather common gender and neuter. Then we certainly do not have to worry about the rest. In relation to the question raised by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested, whether the size of the bet should matter in relation to the number of employees on the board of directors I can say that it doesn't. On the other hand, it is the activity that determines how much resources are allocated to the area. At present, the board is also underfunded at this point, precisely because the activity is as low as it is now, and the revenue is thus so low. But otherwise the starting point is that it is the activity that is crucial to it. So if at some point you have a need to adjust and adapt and transfer employees to other tasks, or whatever you imagine, then it must be because there is a more permanent decline in activity in the aviation industry. We hope that this will not be the case, since this is an industry that is completely at its knees and where there is also a need for an activity in relation to Danish exports, for example. But it is, of course, a discussion that we are taking in a different context. If there are any questions which have not been raised in connection with this first reading, it can, as always, be taken into account in the work of the committee, and of course we are entirely at our disposal for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123440	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be passed on to the Transport Committee. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123550	Then the debate is open. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123613	Thank you very much, President. I don't usually go for food waste, but all of a sudden it went so fast that I had to leave half my lunch down in the Snapsting and run. But I made it, and then I blow straight out. Because this bill is important. It is about reducing air pollution, the air pollution that causes people to die too soon, people to get sick. It's not okay, so now we're taking a step. And we do this by ensuring that there are more new wood-burning furnaces, which emit fewer particles and thus reduce pollution. We do so in the way that when you have to sell your home and have a wood stove, you have to make sure that the wood stove is of more recent date because they emit fewer particles. So if it's from 2003 or later, it's fine. If it is from earlier, it should be replaced or completely removed. But, as I said, this is only happening in connection with the change of ownership. It is our hope that in this way we can ensure that 43,000 extra old wood stoves come away from home towards 2027. Actually, I have to admit, I've been very fond of wood-burning furnaces myself. The heat is nice on a cold winter day when it thunders in the oven, and it is cozy. It's also a good way to warm up for many people. When the winter darkness falls on and I have drove home from the Danish Parliament in the evening and drove through Gundsømagle, I can smell when the burning season starts. But even if it seems a little cosy, it could also be too much, because then I got into what it really has to do with the consequences, and the pollution from wood stoves is far too high. My perception of wood stove changed. From winter cosiness it became pollution and early death. So I have to say for my own part that after I found out, my wood stove hasn't been fired for many years. I liked it very much, because I certainly don't think that my enjoyment should be at the expense of the lives and health of others. We need to take this step to ensure less air pollution, better air quality in Denmark. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123944	Thank you. There is a simple question or comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022123950	I believe that these problems of particle contamination from wood-burning furnaces have moved up a little on the agenda of more and more people. I also think it is thought-provoking that so many people die from air pollution; that we are in a situation where air pollution is more dangerous than traffic in the case of killed people. That is why I am thinking when I see such a bill here and see that it is not so tied up in conciliation etc. whether we could not do even better. So I would really like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur if we could come up with a little bit of tightening up this bill, so that the year of the old wood kilns was moved up a little bit. It could also be to look at whether there are any means that municipalities need to have in order to be more restrictive against wood-burning furnaces in district heating areas. Is this something that the rapporteur could see that we could come up with through a committee procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124048	It is, of course, the case that this draft law contains a mandate for the Minister, and there is also a certain possibility that there may be some tightening over time. However, at this stage, we believe that 2003 is a reasonable time. That is fair, because we must have balanced it in relation to those who have wood-burning furnaces and those who, of course, have also invested newer wood-burning furnaces. So I don't see it in this bill and it's gonna be right now that we're tightening the rules. There is a possibility of tightening them up later, and perhaps there are other proposals that we can look at in relation to air pollution at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124136	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124137	With regard to the amendment of the proposal: if it was changed to 2008, it would just be easier compared to those, what to say, certifications that are on wood stoves. But since it is other things, it could be through the financial law negotiations, because there has been such a scrapping scheme, which expires this year, and the money has been spent in the consultation note in June 2020. So there is no more money to give in scrap subsidies when someone who has a wood stove from before 1995 wants to scrap it. Can the rapporteur see that this could then be something that we could continue to work on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124211	I think it is important that what we are doing now is dealing with this bill. I think we are making a significant change in relation to the sight on wood stoves and in relation to showing people how important it is that we do something about our particle pollution. And to go in and demand that you replace your wood stove if it is from before 2003 in connection with the change of ownership, I think is actually quite a good step.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124251	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124254	Thank you. I apologise for not having just heard the very first of the rapporteur's speech. But I actually believe that the Danish People's Party and the government agree that we have a challenge in relation to particle pollution. What's probably the challenge here is the bill. We do not agree with that, in other words what kind of medicine it takes to solve the challenge that we have. First of all, we are not quite comfortable with the authorisation. In any case, we can see in other areas that authorisation is also an absolute power to impose increased costs on citizens. And the other thing is, when you do it this way, you hit a lot wrong. If you sell a house for 4.2 million. kr. with a wood stove in it, or if you sell a house for DKK 450,000. With a wood stove in it, it is the same expense one imposes on the seller. Does the rapporteur not see that this is going to be a really wrong geographical situation? Those who have the cheapest housing are also those who have the least income, and they are now charged exactly the same expense as those with the high income and the expensive housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124355	If we now choose to do so in the way that the wood-burning furnaces have to be replaced at the time of change of ownership, it is of course about what it is about for a possible new wood-burning stove to be installed and how expensive it should be. I do not see that we can go in and differentiate the price of a new wood stove according to the size of the houses. But even if you sell a house to 450,000, the cost of putting down the wood stove may be about 5,000 kroner. I do not think that is what overturns the budget in a change of ownership. So I think it is a good proposal that we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124448	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124449	You just have to remember that in connection with a sale of a property, you have also been charged as a seller by the Folketing that you have to pay half of such a thing as change of ownership insurance. Now a further cost is imposed. Eventually, you've been charged costs, which may be around this DKK 15,000. After all, we can see that the free value, if you live around the larger cities, is rising and rising. What we can see in the province is that, where they are lucky, they have a housing market which has stagnated, where there is no increase in prices, but there are also people out there who are technically insolvent, and we are therefore giving them an additional cost now. So, wasn't a scrapping scheme more relevant to replace the wood-burning furnaces, which we agree should happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124530	So, I would like to say that I do not think it is with this bill that we have made the big difference, either one way or the other, in relation to the inequality in Denmark. I and the Social Democratic Party will do much to reduce inequality in Denmark and give more people better opportunities for a better future. But when it comes to particle pollution and the replacement of wood stoves... something that costs human life... people die too soon from this... so it's not here that we change the inequality. This is where we do something about air pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124612	Sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124614	I'd like to stay on the same track. We fully agree on the objective, as my rapporteur will also say in a few moments' time, namely that we need to reduce particulate pollution from the oldest furnaces as well. The only question is, what are we supposed to do? Sir. After all, René Christensen has a point in saying that the cost which this entails and which we as a society would like to have lifted a bill for the • will be distributed geographically completely differently. It can be said that where the challenge is also greatest, there is also where our furnaces are most concentrated, in other words in urban areas, but that is also where it does not cost very much in relation to a change of ownership, because the housing is just as much more expensive in the larger cities. So would Mrs Mette Gjerskov not agree that there is a challenge here that we in the committee might be able to try to look at so that we can get it together in a slightly different way, so that we take it too? Because there is a real difference between the cost of a change of ownership, yes, 5,000 DKK, perhaps 10,000 DKK, when you sell a house to 400,000 DKK, and when you sell one to 4-5 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124710	I am of the opinion that the rapporteur from the Left does not take particularly seriously the particulate pollution and all the premature deaths caused by particulate pollution. It is not true that it is only in the cities. This is also in smaller urban communities where you can have a high concentration of wood stoves and thus locally have a very serious air pollution. So I do not agree that stove smoke alone is a big city problem in Denmark. It is precisely a question that applies to the whole country. That is why we must also reach the whole country, so that we have some newer wood-burning furnaces, so that we have some less particle contamination.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124810	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124811	I fully agree with the latter. But I do not think Mrs Mette Gjerskov can put me in the mouth, that I should only be a little interested in combating particle pollution. I just think it is important that we make a model which makes us also take into account the due considerations, which are, in other words, where we have the greatest effect, for the effort that is now being made, as René Christensen quite rightly points out, namely that it is the same expense that is imposed on us as a seller or as a buyer for that matter, but that the cost is simply unevenly distributed in relation to the income that you then have in relation to a change of ownership. Does Mrs Mette Gjerskov not agree with that problem, and can we not, during the committee's work, try to see whether there are any models, i.e. a scrapping scheme or a positive incentive, so that it is not just the whip, but perhaps some more carrot that we can turn into this scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124858	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124900	Yes, but there have been many opportunities for people to replace their stove ovens with support. After all, there has been a scrapping scheme for years that has been used. I think that is important to hold on to. And then I am glad that the Left is now very concerned about the inequality in society. I hope that will also be possible in areas other than those where air pollution is so obviously so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124932	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022124934	Thanks for the speech. I have to say what we think about the bill later, and we are very much in favour of it. However, we do not believe, in line with the Enhedslisten, that this is entirely ambitious enough, and I was so pleased when I heard that Mrs Mette Gjerskov opened up to other initiatives in the future and certainly did not say that we have the final solution, and that problem has been solved. Therefore, I would like to hear a little more about which other ways to go, because former mayor Frank Jensen has among other things. the proposal for a ban on the re-establishment of wood-burning furnaces. Could Mrs Mette Gjerskov and the Social Democratic Party envisage similar measures to limit particulate pollution from wood stoves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125019	We think this draft law is a very important and important step, but it is also a first step, and there are many possibilities in the future where we can go in and avoid particulate pollution. I personally have great hopes that some of the filters you are developing will prove to be of great help, i.e. filters that can reduce particulate emissions. There are many different proposals on the table, and we will have to discuss this at a later stage. But we have to get on with it and now we are going to get on with it, and this step is therefore a significant step towards reducing air pollution in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125114	Does Mrs Zenia Stampe wish to speak again? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. It was beautifully kept with a little bit of breath; it's crazy hard to make speeches when you're out of breath. Sir. Jacob Jensen also stormed into the Chamber, but he has had the opportunity to breathe, so I will now give the floor to him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125141	Thank you, President, and thank you to Mrs Gjerskov for making a good speech, and hence also for the debate that enabled me to catch my breath, but also to listen to the arguments for and against. As far as air/particle pollution is concerned, this is an important issue which, no matter how polemical one may be, we all think something needs to be done about, that is at least my clear view. Also in relation to the problem raised here by the Minister and the government in relation to the particle contamination from the wood-burning furnaces, not least those of the older ones. And, of course, we share that aim. The only question is how we do it. As Mrs Gjerskov has also mentioned, there has been a scrapping scheme which is now going to expire, and there is no secret that we would like to see that route, that is, more of the incentive-driven one, and that some kind of subsidy scheme, as we have known, was created simply to get even more time in the replacement of the oldest furnaces than perhaps what is being proposed here. And there I can also share what both the Radicals and the Enhedslist say, that perhaps some other elements could be included in the proposal, which made it even better or even more ambitious. It can be said that, in principle, there may be an old wood stove in a house which will not be traded for the next 30 years. And then it stands there, and it doesn't do much good for the environment, you might say. So there has to be some way I think, and I think the Left at least has something more incentive-driven, that is, some voluntary, into it, so you can replace these wood-burning furnaces. And that is also what we had a discussion about just now, as Mr. René Christensen raised the problem, that is, that the cost we then charge as a society is whether we finance it from a financial law or, at the very least, from the tax, that is what it is not supposed to be geographically wrong. At any rate, I am also concerned that it can do so if we say quite clearly that it is a compulsory regime for the transfer of ownership and that it is the same for everyone, regardless of whether the house costs 5 million. kr. or 500,000 kroner. Or anything around there. In any case, we are concerned that it will generally be more expensive to be a Dane, not least in the regions of the country, where it may already be difficult to get things together, and also in relation to the lending of houses and the sort of issues that we also travel in this Chamber from time to time. Mrs Gjerskov also mentioned this at the end, and so I share the view that there are other options which may be complementary to what is here, i.e. filters, which are also some of the things that can be put on the older wood stoves and which, as I understand it, have quite a good effect on what we then share as a goal, namely to reduce particulate pollution. So I think that should also be some of the things that you look into, so that you do not just use the compulsion and only do it in connection with a change of ownership, where, as you know, it can in principle take a great many years before we get to the bottom of the wood-burning furnaces, which stand and shoot too much, too much. In relation to the power of ministers, which is also included here, we can also be a little concerned, and the Minister should not take this personally in any way, because it happens to be a socialist minister. It might as well have been a different color minister, but it's more the principle that we would also like to see the Folketing involved a little more if you had to screw these buttons further. I think that would be useful, precisely in the light of the considerations we have mentioned, in other words that there are many different objectives. The aim is simple: we need to reduce particulate pollution, but there may be different buttons on which we can turn to get there, and there may also be some policy in what I also hope we can be involved in in the future. So we would also like to have a little discussion about this in committee, i.e. if we could look at it. So with those words, we are in fact positive about the intention of the proposal. We are a little skeptical about some of the things, as I have said, about the geographical impact, and whether we get the effect out of what we want, in that it may be a little slow when you look at that it is only at the change of ownership. And we also wanted to see that there was something more carrot and a little less whip in relation to achieving the goal that we share far along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125553	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125556	Thank you. And thank you for what to say about reducing air pollution and doing it together. I have two questions. Firstly, has the Left calculated what such a scrapping scheme will cost and where the money will be taken from? That's one thing. And the other thing is that I don't really understand that the Left is so much against this whole thing about having to make demands on a change of ownership. Well, we in the Social Democratic Party would like to say that we ourselves have come up with everything, but we have actually been inspired by a proposal back from 2018 from the then Environment Minister from the Left, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. And at that time, at least it was for making demands in connection with change of ownership. So I do not quite know whether the Left has changed its position on this matter after they have joined the opposition... could we have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125658	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125659	I always think it is excellent when a government can be inspired by a previous government and vice versa, and is honored by the one that should be honored. Nor have I said that we are opposed to looking at it in connection with the change of ownership. I have simply argued that something could be done that made the proposal even stronger. For the change of ownership is not something that happens every day. Yes, it is, of course, but all houses are not sold every day, and that means that in principle there can be a lot of time, that is, several years before we get to the bottom of it with the old wood stoves, which we know are the ones that pollute the most. And it is from this point of view that I think we could also be inspired by the part of what we have done in the past, namely that we also let it be a scrapping premium, as we know it from other areas, simply to say to the people who have these stoves: you really don't have to wait for your house to be sold once; you can get a subsidy of some size. We must then discuss that size and how we finance it; the room for manoeuvre and all the other known places. But I think it is more about the principle that we want something more positive, that is to say more carrot, so that things can go a little bit stronger than that it is only coercion and the fine if you do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125809	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125810	I note, then, that the Left has not calculated it, nor has it found out where the Left will take the money from for a scrapping scheme. That's fair enough. I think it is important to say that a scrapping scheme has been in place for a number of years now. Citizens have had the opportunity to scrap their wood stove with subsidies. Now we are taking a new step; now we are using new funds, with which the Left should actually agree. I did not quite get the answer as to whether the Left has changed its mind in this way or what is going on in the Left, since suddenly it is not part of a change of ownership arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125853	I don't quite know if my microphone doesn't work, because I haven't talked about us not being part of it. I have just been saying that we could do even better and that we could do it in a more carrot-like way, that is to say that it is something positive; that we can get an incentive, as we know it and have experience with in the past, in addition to what is being proposed, in relation to doing it in connection with a change of ownership. That is what I have been arguing for. So I hope Mrs Mette Gjerskov will take that down positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125918	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022125919	This proposal is basically identical to the proposal put forward by the then Left Government, in addition to the fact that, of course, the government has tightened its ambition slightly and changed the cut-off year from 2000 to 2003. That is why I am also surprised that this is the model which the Left is now opposed to. Then it might have been said that one does not like the figure being changed from 2000 to 2003, but now I understand that it is the model itself that is considered unreasonable. What I really wanted to ask is what the Left thinks of the fundamental principle that the polluter pays. It is indeed a principle which does not apply in this area, but in which, on the contrary, I can understand on the Left that we believe that people should actually be paid to avoid polluting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130010	I do not think it is a completely new principle to introduce a scrapping premium, in other words a scheme in which a subsidy is granted. It could be to attach a filter, it could be to replace something. We know this from cars, we know it from oil pine, we know it from a number of areas where we have just said it: we want to promote that development. We do not want to ban it, but we want to promote a development in which we would like to see these pollutants replaced and removed from our society as soon as possible. So that's the principle I kind of demand we could follow here, so it's not just a change of ownership that, as I mentioned before, may take 20-30 years down the road, but that we can also say to those who keep their house and thus the old wood stove that there is an opportunity here for you, continue to have this replaced something earlier than otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130057	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130058	Yeah, but if I was the state and had to pay some money for them to renew their wood stove, then I'm gonna have to get that money from somewhere. And I can only get one place from that, and it is from the citizens' pockets, so it is a bit an illusion to stand and say that we will not make it expensive for the citizens. Now it is all about all Danes, including those without a wood stove, having to pay those who have a wood stove so that they do not pollute so much. I do not think that is quite fair, and it is at least an illusion that it should cost citizens less, because it costs us all something instead of costing those who are actually polluting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130133	You could say that. But then I hear Mrs Zenia Stampe disagree with the principles in cases where we have made subsidies or scrapping premiums for older cars, for oil pine etc., and there are probably many other places where this is also true, because I do not hear Mrs Zenia Stampe speak against it. So it's basically just the same thing I'm trying to argue for in this context. After all, it is also a social problem, because particle pollution affects everyone, as well as we can get a social benefit, by the fact that, in the extreme, those people do not die of it or get sick at all and have to go to the hospital. There is also a gain to be gained if you look at it financially. But here I think the most important thing is the environmental impact and the tools we can use to get to where we all really want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130214	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. There are no more questions. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130221	Thank you for that, President. With L 54 it must once again become more expensive and harder to be a Dane. And why is that? What we are talking about is that we want to reduce particulate pollution from wood stoves. This is a good agenda and we would like to pay tribute to the fact that that agenda has been put forward, because it is important and it costs too much in the lost quality of life for those affected by it, and it costs too much in human lives. That is why we must do something about it, and that is why we were very pleased that under the previous government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, 46 million were set aside. kr. of the Finance Act for a scrapping scheme. The money has also been spent • we've got a lot of wood-burning furnaces replaced by the 46 million. kr., because you have been able to get 2,000 kr. in addition to a new wood stove, and as everyone knows, a wood stove costs significantly more than DKK 2,000, so that's why the money has been geared up significantly, so we might have changed wood stove off 150 million. kr. without paying that crown to crown. The proposal which then comes here gives the minister in office the power to decide at any time what taxes and burdens we impose on citizens. We clearly believe that it should be the Folketing that deals with what taxes and burdens we impose on citizens. We believe that it is totally wrong to give a mandate in a matter such as this. What you can also see is that you now say that you can't find $46 million. In the budget law for 2021 I could also understand this from the Socialist rapporteur and that it would be quite impossible: where on earth would that money come from? First of all, it can be said that the amount of 46 million. kr. It is not structural and is therefore a one-off sum. If you look at the Finance Act, there are both government reserves and there is a negotiating amount of over one and a half billion kroner, so I would say that if you wanted something, it would not take long to find the one-off amount of 46 million. kr. and continue the scrapping scheme which has been initiated and which has worked so well that the pot is now closed because all the money has been paid out. But it's not the worst of all. The worst of all is that one creates a marked inequality and that one creates insecurity in relation to owning a dwelling in the province. You can just try to go into the residence side.dk and search a house of 100 m2, press the map and go in and see what square meters of a house of 100 m2 are in and around Copenhagen, in and around Aalborg, in and around Odense and Aarhus. If you do the same when you search in the province, you can see that there is a marked difference. If you go in and look at how square metre prices have developed, you can see that they have developed in a very, very positive direction in and around the large cities, whereas there is a tendency for them to fall in some places in the province and that in some places there is a very, very small percentage increase. That is why it is possible to impose an additional cost on sales, which the Social Democrat rapporteur referred to as 5,000 kroner, but I think it is much more expensive to replace a wood stove today if you also have craftsmen to do it go and become a fairly large percentage of the price at which the property is traded. So a lot of properties are traded for about 0.5 million. kr., and when you look at the costs of shopping a house today, they are about 50,000 kr. This proposal is now going to increase significantly. I just don't think you guys can be familiar with that. I do not think you can be aware of a proposal which makes it so significantly more expensive to trade property in the province, especially when we have had a scheme of 50 million. kr., which is not structural, to replace wood-burning furnaces. It is a scheme that we know and we can see that thousands of wood stoves have been replaced, and that is what this is all about. It's about replacing the wood-burning ovens... we're kind of in agreement with that in the Danish People's Party. So we cannot support the proposal. Of course, we support the intention, and we would also very much like to discuss, if you want to do so in this way, whether, if you have access to district heating, you should be allowed to set up a wood stove, for example, if you build a new house. We think that is a real question to ask when you have access to another kind of heat, because it is true, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, that wood stoves have become such a pleasant thing. Yeah, but for some, it's also a heat source. And then, of course, it's also about how to fire. All these discussions are open to us, but the proposal here does not seem to us to pass the test when it comes to not wanting to create inequality. Because that's exactly what this proposal is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130715	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130719	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for what at least seemed to be some kind of interest in dealing with air pollution. What I am sensitive to is the very strong words that were insecure and that it is an authority, as if the Minister can now do everything and go out and pull people's stove out of their house, and what do I know? Well, this law is actually pretty narrow. Yes, it is an authorisation, and yes, there are some opportunities to tighten up in a few areas. But can the rapporteur not tell us a little more about: what are the terrible powers that lie in this law that he is so afraid of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130815	Authorization means you can stand up on a Friday and say: you can't hold confirmations tomorrow. It is a ministerial authorisation. This is a very concrete example of how to use it when you have been given the authority to go out and decide something legislative. We all remember it being so in connection with corona. The authorization here will allow the Minister for the Environment to lay down requirements for the replacement and determination of certain combustion plants in the event of the change of ownership of real estate. It may be that a minister suddenly arrives who says that a wood stove must not be more than four years old. A minister can do that with this proposal here • a four-year-old wood stove. Even though you may have spent $20,000. or 25,000 kroner. to have a wood stove installed, it must be replaced at the time of change of ownership. That is what can be done if we adopt it here. I'm not sure there are ministers who might want to do that, but they give the authority to do so. And by the fact that it is such a large and costly authority and that it is imposed on the owner, we clearly believe that it should be in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130909	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130910	Well, I would like to say that it sounds like a strong exaggeration that in this way you will be able, yes, I do not know, I almost hear it as if you can illegal wood stoves that are more than one week old. I mean, that's not what this bill says, and it's not what it says in either the intentions or the scripture. I just think that is important to maintain for the citizens who are watching out there so that they do not get really, really worried. We are talking about a 2003 deadline, and that is what we are agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022130952	Nor did we expect us to be in the situation we were in when we gave the Minister of Health the authority to act in relation to Corona that we would be in a situation where we would shut down at one day's notice in relation to how people should act in their own home. And I have to say here: nothing here prevents a minister from saying that a wood stove, which is 1, 2, 3 or 4 years old, must be replaced by sale. The Minister will be able to do so without presenting it to the Danish Parliament, with the bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131016	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131018	I just need to be clear that, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, one is positive about a possible change of ownership, but one is just concerned about the social profile; that is, one might be able to do something if there was some kind of differentiation, depending on how expensive the house is or where it is geographically. Or is it the case that the Danish People's Party and Mr. René Christensen just will not help to combat pollution from wood stoves through bans, coercion, that is compulsory schemes, but will only use carrots and pay subsidies for people to renew or lay down their wood stoves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131101	I believe that it is 55,000 wood-burning furnaces that have been replaced and that have been applied for the scrapping premium by voluntary means, for a relatively small amount, when you look at the economy that we are otherwise messing with. It seems we've worked really well. We would also very much like to look at how we do in relation to the setting up of new wood stoves. But those who are out there, we would like to change, but it should be in conversation with the citizens. And there is, of course, only far, far better than the way you do it here, especially because it hits so badly. The price is the same wherever you live, and in some places it will be a thousand percent of the cost of a sale, and in some places it will be a large percentage in relation to the cost of a sale. That is the challenge of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131145	Mrs. Zenia Stampe's apostate. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131151	It's sir. René Christensen's talk about powers that make me speak. That is because there is a little excessive fear of the powers. The fact is that the ministers sit at the mercy of the Folketing, and if ministers with authority insist on carrying out things that are not supported in the Folketing, then the Folketing can at any time remove the minister from its post. This also means that when ministers use their authority, they have it in mind that if they do so in a way that the Folketing does not agree with, they may risk losing their ministerial post. And then no more authorizing in the future. I know, even as a former minister, that although I had the right to do things, I went first in the Folketing and asked if there really was support to do things. That is why it seems to me rather excessive to raise warning flags against authorizations in the way the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131301	Now it is the case that the majority is changing in the Folketing, and it is the case that there are certainly some things that we deeply disagree with, but where ministers can get a majority for it. I would just like to say that the debate that comes to you when things come to the Assembly is quite different from if they happen with an authorisation. We really believe that this is something that is so intrusive to the people when you do it this way. We agree on the objective: we need more wood-burning furnaces and the wood-burning furnaces that need to be environmentally sound. However, authority can also be used very skilfully, even when you have a majority, without much debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131339	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131340	I do not, in fact, agree that this legislation is very intrusive to the public, because it does not allow the Minister to remove a single stove out there from an owner. It gives the Minister the right to say that at the time the property is transferred to another owner, the new owner is obliged to install an up-to-date wood-burning furnace plant. Current owners, as long as they live in their own house, can sleep safely at night; the minister can't do anything to them with this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131416	No, but now it is the case that real estate can also be traded, and this will of course put itself in prices. There is no doubt that the way it will set itself will hit completely wrong, because here we are not talking about percentage, here we are talking about fixed amounts, and the fixed amount is the same, whether you are dealing with a property for many millions or you are trading a property for a few hundred thousand. That is the challenge here. We want to do something in relation to the objective, and that is where we think that the arrangement we also made with the Liberal Alliance, where we made a scrapping scheme and where, as far as I remember, the removal of 55,000 old wood stoves was a very good arrangement and a good agreement we made then.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131450	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131503	Thank you. I think it will come as a surprise for a great many Danes to know how much wood-burning furnaces actually fill in air pollution • that wood-burning furnaces actually account for 65%. of our particle contamination. I think that will come as a surprise, if not a shock, for most Danes, who certainly connect wood stoves with something that is cozy and it is. But let me just take Copenhagen, which I think is a very good educational example. There are 600,000 people living there, and 16,000 have a wood stove. The pollution from the 16,000 wood-burning furnaces corresponds to the emissions from the total car traffic in Copenhagen in a whole year • 16,000 wood-burning furnaces and car traffic for a whole year in Copenhagen! Well, I have to admit that when I first found out about this, it really puzzled me that we have not discussed wood stoves anymore, but that we are always discussing those Euronorms and cars. And it's also important that it's still gone, but there's really been a jolt, where it's amazing that we haven't had the courage to start this discussion. Those who work on air pollution are also constantly comparing the figures for how much money we spend on reducing air pollution with what we spend on ensuring clean drinking water and our groundwater. And there's a huge bias. In fact, I do not think we should spend much, much more money on air pollution, but I think that the polluter-pays principle should also apply to air pollution. So if it were up to us, we would be doing much more radically; then we would be following the proposals of the Green Conversion Council and the Economic Wise Men that we should actually introduce a tax on consumption and on pollution from wood-burning furnaces, which could then be regulated, depending on how much they used their wood-burning stove and how much it contaminated. It might also be that you could look at some geography; it might be that you could look at whether you have alternative forms of heating, i.e. whether you have alternative forms of heating. live in a place where district heating has been hospitalized. After all, there are all kinds of possibilities for linking such a tax intelligently and socially fairly. After all, we are not going that far with this proposal or the government is not going that far with this proposal. But this is a good first step. And some of what we're really happy about this law and now, of course, I'm afraid to give the critics more frowns is the legal basis to go further. After all, it is also a law that has a perspective towards 2030, and we certainly expect that we will have to tighten up the requirements along the way. So we start here, but our ambition is that we also have the 2003 cut-off year up. In 2008, wood-burning furnaces received a certificate. You could also turn it up even higher and say that all new wood stoves must be swan-marked. And there are several possibilities for such a model here, and we are very pleased about that. But there is no doubt that we would be willing to go further, both within the model we hope we can do so at a later stage; also because it is a legal act but there are also many other initiatives on which we wish we in the Folketing could agree. For where have we often received calls from the mayors of the large cities, mainly social democratic mayors, to dare to address this problem? For example: Mr Jensen suggested that the ban on new combustion furnaces should simply be banned from another good proposal. So we see this as a first step that can be extended, but certainly not the only step if we are to deal seriously with air pollution, which is a very serious health problem. That's why I'd like to arrest one thing at the end. When the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, says that now it will be more expensive to be a Dane, then I disagree. It is true that it will be more expensive to buy a home where there is an old wood stove or it will be more expensive to sell a home if it puts itself in the price. That's right. But it is cheaper for everyone else if the alternative was that we had to pay all those who have an old wood stove to replace it. Well, then it's cheaper for them to pay for it themselves. It is also cheaper for us to reduce the very, very large and expensive health genes associated with particulate pollution. It is also cheaper for the Danes. So I disagree that this proposal makes it more expensive for the Danes. It is true that it makes it more expensive for those who have a very old and very polluting wood stove, but I can live with that, because I believe in the principle and am in favour of the polluter-pays principle. On the other hand, it becomes healthier and cheaper for all other Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022131959	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132003	Now I was sitting desperately looking at the apartment side.dk just to find the square meter prices, and it was like to stress the point, if not Mrs. Zenia Stampe though admits that there is a difference between selling your home and getting 500,000 kroner. for it and to sell its home and get 5 million. kr. for it. You are charged with a one - size cost of 5,000, 10,000, 15,000 in that rent. That doesn't mean much if you sell at $5 million. kr., but it means a lot if you sell to 500,000 or 400,000, as there are both apartments and houses that are sold for out in the province. Does Mrs Zenia Stampe not agree that this is a challenge and could we not try in committee to find out whether we could meet that challenge somehow? At least that is where I see a challenge with this proposal, because we share the ambition to reduce particulate pollution for the old wood stoves, we agree on that and then we can choose how far we should go, but we agree on the goal. So could we not try to find each other whether something could be put together that could go in a slightly fairer geographical direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132110	I wouldn't deny it at all. If the Left and perhaps more parties want to engage constructively in the work of the committee and try to find a key that makes the richer ones have to bear a heavier burden, then I will take a positive view of it. But I would also like to say that there are a great many things in our society, including taxes, which we do not regulate in this way according to where people live or how rich they are. After all, petrol costs the same for everyone, even if in some parts of the country you need a car more, and you also have an average lower income, but pollution is the same and therefore we tax people in the same way. I am also concerned about equality, but by the vast majority of things in our society people pay the same price, and I actually think the bourgeois people agree with that, so the price should be the same for everyone on most things. It is quite difficult if we are to go in and regulate everything, although we always want to talk about how we create greater equality in society. This is not usually something that the bourgeois people are concerned about quite so much, but we are happy to try to do so and would like to respond to such a discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132225	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132226	Regardless of all the talk about who is in favour of what equality, I really take it down positively, because I think that I could benefit this in a good and positive way. To the point that petrol costs the same, I would say that there are also slightly different driving allowances because of the geography difference where people living in the province have everything else just longer to work. So there are models we already know, where we try to differentiate and accommodate that geography difference. That's kind of the kind of thing I'm thinking maybe could come along with here too. So just one quick question: is the positive part, that is, the incentive part, the subsidy schemes that we have had, something that the Radicals could take into account in their deliberations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132307	Yes, we would like to look at subsidy schemes, but now this is so massive a source of pollution. I also think there are limits to how much all Danes have to pay for someone having an extremely polluting wood stove. In fact, I do not think that is fair and it violates my sense of justice that all those without a wood stove should pay for those who have. So there are 600,000 people living in Copenhagen, 16,000 wood stoves, so everyone else has to pay for 16,000 households having a wood stove that really reduces air quality in Copenhagen. I don't really think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132342	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132345	Thank you. But as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said, as a rule, this bill does not remove any wood stoves until the property is traded. So if you have an old wood stove now and stay for the next 20 years, you also pollute the next 20 years. That's what the bill is. So you can't say that this just hits there and there and there. It is very random where it hits where housing is traded. There are 700,000 wood stoves in Denmark. 200,000 of them are from before 1995. We could see that it's about 25,000 years now I've found the number, it's about 25,000, so I'm sorry, I exaggerated a little before that has been removed in connection with the pool that was made. So if you drop pools, it's actually going pretty fast. Then there are quite a lot of wood-burning furnaces that are removed quite quickly. Now they are only removed in connection with housing sales. Wasn't this an idea when this is so important? We agree that people die from it, and then you don't even want to spend the 150 million. kr., it costs. It's $150 million. kr. to have them removed by voluntary means. You don't want to spend that on it, even if you're standing up there saying people die from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132445	Well, you know what, I'd much rather have the money that we can spend on good things in the state, for example. to pay for some of the health costs associated with particulate pollution. That is why I said, as I did in my rapporteur's speech, that we believe that the polluter should pay. It may well be that we should not have a ban on kilns, but then we think that we should pay for the health costs which the pollution for which we are responsible leads. So instead of sending 150 million. kr. I would like to scratch it, plus a little more on the fact that there are some out there who are enjoying themselves, and that is nicely cozy, but it has some very large health and also economic costs for society, and I think that is actually fair that they themselves pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132526	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132528	That is why there should be no authorisation, because that is what comes suddenly. It should not just be in sales. It has to be earlier. We can, of course, hear why no authorisation should be given. But the rapporteur stands seriously and says that you would rather spend 150 million. kr. To heal people who are dying than to remove the source of pollution, which is wood-burning furnaces. For 150 million. kr. We could get rid of the remaining wood-burning furnaces by volunteering. You do not want to, you would rather heal people who have become sick from the pollution caused by wood-burning furnaces. I'm sorry, I'm saying, it's really good night.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132558-2	It was very polemical, for it, as Mr. René Christensen also knows very well that when you impose a tax on people for a particular behavior, you change behavior. This means that a tax would mean that the wood-burning furnaces would be used less, and the beauty of a charge I think is actually that you can keep your wood-burning stove. You can sit and drink a glass of red wine on Friday night after a long and busy week in front of the wood stove.I might have needed that myself last Friday night, should I say hello and say • and that's okay. But you think a little more about how much you use it, if you are not addicted to wood-burning furnaces. Because there are some who are, and we will solve that by other means. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132638	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr President. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022132648	Thank you. SF supports any progress that reduces pollution from wood stoves and other sources. With that said, we are sorry that the government has not presented an overall air pollution plan with the elements that we agreed on in the report on the legislative proposal before the elections, where the present majority agreed to act together if we obtained a majority after the elections. Unfortunately, the draft law before us is very far from ensuring compliance with the NEC directive. It does not measure up to the fine particles, 27 per cent. instead of 33% and there is no plan to achieve the 2030 target for fine particles of 55%. We simply need to move forward with regard to this bill as well. Why is it not oven before 2008 that needs to be replaced instead of 2003? What effect does that have? What effect will it give to require particle filters at ownership change also for new furnaces? And what is the reason why the Minister does not come up with an overall plan for air pollution and just for particles? The main sources are wood stoves, ammonia from agriculture and traffic. In the SF's view, we should allow municipalities to regulate the pollution of furnaces at least in environmental zones to which several municipalities must have access. Can we agree on a common goal that, to the extent that there should be wood stoves in Denmark, they should be effective, i.e. not older than 2008 and that they should be equipped with an electrostatic filter or other technology? This does not make the stoves cheaper, but the intention is to reduce pollution to the very minimum, as from other sources of pollution. I am not proposing a ban on furnaces without filters, but a political agreement that we should work towards the goal of setting an end date for polluting furnaces, at the latest when we discuss a comprehensive plan from the government, preferably an end date before 2030, but at least by 2030. In May, we were a bunch of supporters who criticised the lack of focus on reducing air pollution. Today, almost six months later, we can see that the level of ambition is still too low. We must make even higher demands if it is to have a serious economic and health impact. If Denmark is to be a green power, as the Prime Minister has talked about several times, and which is also a vision shared by us, then we must raise the level everywhere and at least ensure that we achieve the international objectives to which we have committed ourselves. We need to discuss the establishment of more environmental zones and zero emission zones, which also apply to combustion plants, and then, as has been said, we need to set a time limit on when all combustion plants will have to have a particulate filter installed at the latest or have to be replaced completely. We are overall in favour of the legislative proposal, but it is with the reservation that it is only the first step towards reducing particulate pollution. We also hope, therefore, that the Social Democrats will consider doing more to comply with the agreement that we and the supporting parties were involved in making, by extending and tightening up the demands that the draft law lays down here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133020	Thank you. And there are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133029	Sometimes you have to ask yourself how to get the most environment for money. And then we have a bill here, where it's not the state money we're dealing with. I think this bill is a step in the right direction. And what we are missing is to get the overall plan for how we are going to achieve compliance with the NEC directive by 2030. And I think this is gonna be a little hard to figure out. Because you try to slap yourself into what the impact of the bill here is, and you see it over a 20-year period. And then there is an objective in the NEC directive on what we are going to achieve by 2030. And how do you keep these two things against each other? I don't know if that's true, but it looks like this bill will reach 0.3 million. t by 2030, and the NEC directive requires that we have a reduction of 2.9 million. a. What, then, is it that we are, what can be said, when the remaining action is taken to achieve a satisfactory result? I think that's missing from this. That perspective is missing from the bill here. And when I look at it, I really miss giving the municipalities better tools. Because I think it is totally unfair that you can have all these wood stoves in district heating areas. Especially in densely built areas such as Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Aarhus and more on the list. And it's a little grotesque in particular when you have some of these major cities that have their primary energy source for heating in imported wood. And then there are some citizens who think that you should keep the fun at home and burn some wood privately in a wood stove, and then turn down the district heating supplied on wood at the same time. I think it's kind of a wrong place. So we can see that this can be the first step in the overall plan, and that's why we can support what's here. But another weakness in that is that it is only at the change of ownership, and that means that it becomes a little random what the effect of this becomes. After all, it can easily be when there is a change of ownership of housing in the open country, where particle pollution is less bothering than it does in some urban communities. So I think this should be tightened up, and I think it would also be fair to look at how old ovens should be replaced or scrapped. And there I think it would be better to choose the year 2008 rather than 2003 because after 2008 there is a test certificate for furnaces, so there will be more information about what was scrapped. And then we could provide for measures that would make it easier for municipalities to regulate so that we could reduce particulate pollution. I think it is a little impressive what has been gained from a scrapping scheme, and it is a little difficult to say whether it has been an expensive scheme or not. What has been the effect on particulate matter by having had the scraping system? I really think that would be interesting to clarify in a committee procedure. Has there been a significant reduction in particulate pollution in the scrapage scheme implemented, which then applied to wood-burning furnaces older than from 1995? I find it difficult to assess whether that is the amount of 46 million. kr. that has been mentioned here, but it is certainly a scheme that has been popular since the scheme, which runs this year, is such that the money has been spent here in the middle of the summer. So I think it is worth considering whether a scrapping scheme of older stove clowns should be part of those instruments in order to achieve compliance with our international obligations. I also find it a little strange that when we have these international obligations and this is about cross-border pollution, you are so hesitant and it is not just the current government; it is certainly also the previous government with the Water Framework Directive and the Nitrates Directive and the Habitats Directive. Where are we on the big blade when it comes to protecting environmental interests, which are, in effect, cross-border? There is no progress in the shoes, and I do not think you are with this bill either, if it is only a small part of the achievement of the NEC directive that this bill can achieve. So I really do not have a follow-up to that bill, and it is very possible that we cannot get it through before committee, but then the Minister knows that there is a great desire to move forward after this. And I would like to hear what the Minister is planning there in a moment. Because I am listening to a number of parties wanting to back the government in something more ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133535	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133541	It is possible to get it through the committee procedure. That is something that a majority in the Folketing decides, I think. But having said that, I would like to sign that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen makes the statement about what I have also tried to argue for, namely that this proposal could be put together in a way that drives it too, compared to giving a carrot, a prize, as we know it from before. Now Mrs Mette Gjerskov asked me how I intended to finance it, but now Mrs Mette Gjerskov chooses not to ask Enhedslisten about it. So I can ask Enhedslisten if Enhedslisten has an idea of how big such a prize could be, whether one could put it at the level we knew and, if so, how such a thing should be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133616	However, it is clear that a debate on finance law can lead to anything. I am not a Finance Law rapporteur, so I must refrain from standing here and promising that we will just find 46 million. kr. to continue the scheme that has been running in 2020. Then I would say that if we had now had a tax on biofuels, which was the intention of the 2012 Energy Agreement, then there would have been an income that could also be used to reduce particulate pollution by giving scrapping premiums. It was another option, but unfortunately it has passed away. I don't really think we can still make it. The energy agreement from 2012 goes to 2020, so we will certainly hurry if we are to put a tax on biomass. But I am quite open to this if anyone has a good and quick solution to that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133709	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133710	I won't be able to tell you if anyone has. At least I don't have it. However, my follow-up question would be about the discussion we had before about the geographical challenge, as I call it. How does Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen on it? I just had time to look at the apartment side.dk. I found a residence here on Østerbro, where the square meter price was in the direction of DKK 123,000. 123,000 kr. for 1 m2. Now I didn't have time to find it, but I can find some that are considerably cheaper if you go out in, for example, sir. René Christensen's pastorate or my own pastorate out in the Zealand or in many other places in Jutland. So there's the difference in square meter price, that's the selling price you get. Recognizes Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen not that there is a challenge to impose the same cost in relation to the sale when the square meter price is perhaps ten times as large in one place as the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133757	It is clear that if a home in Copenhagen or at Frederiksberg has a wood stove, it is part of the cozy and not part of the energy supply. If we go to the countryside, you can easily have cheap houses where wood stoves are the primary source of energy. I look forward to the fact that, hopefully and very soon, we will be landing some new grant schemes, which I cannot say anything about in detail here, because it will probably be published next week. But there is work to be done to make offers for heat pumps. In this way, it could be made easier for people who have an old, cheap house that they acquire, namely to help them get a heat pump solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133836	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022133844	Thank you for the floor. This discussion is not, of course, a question of whether we are for or against pollution. It is a question of what means we want to use to regulate wood stoves in our country. We, the Conservatives, do not want to go further along the chain of command in connection with the change of ownership. We want to go further along the road of voluntary service, as several speakers have also mentioned. The scrapage scheme, which has been successful, why not go a little further along that path? We can also foresee that setting a certain date will lead to some bureaucracy, including about the exceptions. Which wood stoves are covered, and which are not covered? And there is a whole procedure for how to decide it. I think we can avoid this bureaucratic discussion, for example. with a scrapping scheme or by working with subsidies for energy improvements. We are considering why flue gas cleaning is not part of the proposal. It must be the number of particles that come out of the wood stove, which is the controlling thing here. So we would also like there to be a little focus on what subsidy opportunities there were in relation to flue gas cleaning. And then, as previous speakers have also mentioned, the draft law here allows the Minister to change the law, as it now seems to be, in relation to, for example, the law. The NEC Directive. I miss the fact that there has to be a democratic debate about which rules will then apply in the future. So we are also critical of that part. That is why we have reservations about the present proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134043	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134052	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The draft law is about empowering the Minister for the Environment to lay down requirements for the replacement and decommissioning of certain combustion plants in the event of the change of ownership of real estate. The first Implementing Order envisages, pursuant to the authorisation, the replacement or closure of wood-burning furnaces and fireplaces produced before 1 January 2003 by the change of ownership of real estate. It makes good sense to look at particle emissions from wood stoves, and it is also possible that a limit of 2003 is reasonable. However, the draft law gives the Minister a broad authority to further tighten up the requirements. It appears that the authorization provides for the possibility, on the one hand, of tightening up the age requirement or, on the other hand, of establishing a particulate emission requirement and, on the other hand, of laying down requirements for the replacement of other and more types of solid fuel combustion plants below 1 MW if it is assessed as necessary for the environment or health, etc. New citizens believe that the Folketing should be given the opportunity to re-examine if significant restrictions are to be made; these may be changes to the age requirement or the extension of the facilities concerned. That is why we cannot support the draft law as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134216	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134227	It is no human right to pollute other people's air. On the contrary, it is almost a human right to be able to breathe without contamination of your lungs. So we should only accept air pollution when it is the only chance that we can have a good life, that is, the air pollution that we cannot reduce without having a major impact on other positive aspects of society. We must accept that. Conversely, we should reduce the air pollution that we can reduce without having a major impact on the rest of society. When we talk about firing up wood in our own wood stove, it is a warm-up that is indeed cozy. We find back to something that seems like something very original in our lives: We make our own warmth, and we rejoice about that, and if the whole world breaks down, we can still go out and forest some wood and put it into our wood stove and set fire to and create warmth for ourselves. It is a satisfaction, but it is not an absolute necessity for having a very good life in Denmark, and therefore it must be subject to the regulation that we think is sensible to have to ensure that our common air has a quality that we think is sufficient. That's why we support this bill. I may be wondering a few things in the bill. This is precisely the case with the age limit, i.e. that it is wood-burning furnaces from before 2003 and not from after 2003. Well, the most ideal way to do that would be that it had nothing to do with the age of the wood stove, but something about the efficiency of the wood stove, that it was the heat production in relation to the particle emissions that was crucial. I myself, at one point, had a wood stove that was purchased before 2003, but which could also be purchased after 2003, and that would then be exactly the same wood stove. Should it then be particularly dangerous because it was acquired before 2003 while it was safe if it had been purchased after 2003? Surely we need to know something about their standards, their emissions, which means that we can assess whether they should be scrapped or not scrapped, on the basis of it, rather than assessing it on the basis of their acquisition time. That seems to be the right and rational way to go about it. So we would like to try to learn more why a certain procurement date has been chosen instead of a certain emission standard, but the starting point for us is that we support this here because we want to reduce pollution where it can be done without causing more harm to society than pollution itself does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134549	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I don't see any representative from the Alternative, so we move on to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022134601	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate in this Chamber. It was, after all, one that we were supposed to have some time ago, but which was postponed because of corona and which we therefore now have. I would like to thank you for your support, including from a number of parties. Too many Danes die prematurely or become ill due to air pollution, but with this proposal that we are discussing today, we are focusing on combating air pollution, both in the large cities and on the villa roads in all parts of the country. WHO has assessed air pollution as one of the biggest environmental challenges today, and Aarhus University considers that the main environmental cause of disease and premature death due to air pollution in Denmark is particulate pollution. At the same time, Denmark is challenged to achieve particle reduction targets in the NEC directive on national targets for particulate emissions. Approx. 70% of air pollution in Denmark we ourselves are not masters of, it blows from abroad. The last 30 percent. of air pollution comes from Danish sources such as wood burning and wood-burning furnaces, but also cars, industry and agriculture. Air pollution from Danish sources causes 1,200 premature deaths in Denmark each year due to the particle contamination from burning. At the same time, in areas with many wood stoves, there may be a local particulate contribution to reduced air quality. Of course, we must take this seriously. An effective place to take action is to increase the replacement of the oldest wood-burning furnaces, because they emit up to five times as many particles as new wood-burning furnaces and also use the wood worse. The last approx. Ten years of particle emissions from wood stoves have been steadily decreasing as a result of the ongoing renewal of the stock, but we need to have the replacement of the old wood kilns in a higher gear. The type of regulation we are dealing with today with the change of ownership is completely new. The legislative proposal will allow us to accelerate the natural replacement of wood stoves and, for the first time, to impose a mandatory replacement requirement for existing wood-burning furnaces, so that there will be a requirement for replacement or decommissioning of wood-burning furnaces in connection with the change of ownership of housing. This will then also have to be done in conjunction with other energy and environmental improvements of the property. If you buy accommodation with a wood stove from before 2003, it must now be changed within 12 months at the time of change of ownership. Not all homeowners will be able to establish or document, with the naked eye, whether their wood stove is from before or after 2003 and in those cases homeowners will have to obtain a statement from the chimney sweeper, which can be sent to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which decides whether or not the wood stove in question is covered by the scheme. Of course, the change of ownership does not solve all the problems, and it is also a receipt to some of the parties who have stood on the platform today and said that we need to do something about air pollution in Denmark. I share that view and therefore there is an important message from me today that this is, of course, only one step on the road to cleaner air in Denmark. With the change of ownership, it is expected with great uncertainty that approx. 43,000 additional wood-burning furnaces or fireplace inserts will be replaced or terminated in the period up to 2027 and the first year alone will be approx. 12,000 extra will be replaced, which comes on top of the scraps that would have happened anyway. There's also a dynamic in the bill that has been mentioned by several of you. The authorisation provides for the possibility to include several types of combustion plants, to strengthen the age requirements laid down or to establish a particulate emission requirement where it is considered necessary for the environment or health, or if it is deemed necessary for the fulfilment of Denmark's existing and future Union or international obligations. I think that is wise, in other words, that there is the future assurance also in relation to the legislative proposal. With the bill here we will focus on combating air pollution, both in the large cities and on the villa roads in all parts of Denmark. This is an important step towards cleaner air, which is why I am pleased that we have started the treatment today. I look forward to the further examination of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135040	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135041	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I think it really is a little strange to agree with the intentions and then be so indignant against the proposal made by the Minister. But that's the way it is. Because if you look at it, you can see that the Minister is expecting to pick 123 million. kr. Out of the citizens' pockets just the first year. 123 million kr. You take from the homeowners, that is, those who have their homes for sale now, because they have to get out and have these costs. Then the Minister says • and I think it is quite interesting that it is expected that about 12,000 furnaces will be replaced annually. If we look at the scrapage scheme, we can see that in a year and a half we reached just under 25,000. So that actually means that with this scheme we are slowing down the pace of the replacement of wood-burning furnaces in Denmark that we have seen. Isn't that a setback instead of progress?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135137	First of all, I would like to welcome the positive, namely that the Danish People's Party says that there are also ambitions for cleaner air in Denmark. Because, as I said in my speech, this is one step on the road to cleaner air. That is why we are going to have to take several steps, and it is good to know that there is also an interest in it. With regard to the scrapping scheme, there is, of course, a loss of weight, and I believe that the system to which the rapporteur refers will also show that there would have been a natural replacement, but which would then of course be accelerated. Something's coming upstairs. But, of course, there is also a loss of weight in the system that is there. What we are doing here is going in with regulation and ensuring that we replace some of the oldest wood-burning furnaces from which there is a much larger particle release. I think that is a good and important step, but it will not be left alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135232	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135239	Thank you for your answer. The minister says it is correct, that this does not accelerate the replacement of furnaces. It is absolutely true that, of course, there have been some who would have had to change their wood-burning furnaces anyway, and who have also received a subsidy. We are in agreement with that. And yet we're over these 20,000, barely 25,000, who changed their stove. And the Minister says here that the bill expects it to be 12 000. Then there's a dead weight loss, but I don't think it's a dead weight loss of 50 percent. So this doesn't increase the replacement of wood stoves in Denmark compared to the solution that was. But this means that property owners are now being charged with a cost of 123 million. kr., and that the state saves 46 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135316	I think perhaps the rapporteur did not listen quite properly while I was giving my speech and peace with it. But what I told you was that 43,000 extra wood stoves will be replaced by this bill, 43,000. It is, of course, to ensure that we take new steps towards air pollution in Denmark. And I also believe that it is important that we say that on this green journey that we must all be on in relation to part of our climate and our environment, we will also be using some new tools if we are to succeed with what we want. This is also an expression of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135354	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135356	The minister says that there are people dying too soon, and with the numbers that are here, this particle contamination in Denmark so far is more dangerous than corona. It's kind of crazy that you've been getting used to for years that there's just a particle contamination that you don't do enough about. The Minister is suggesting that there should be some more action, and I would really like to hear something about it when we have this bill. The way I estimate it, it's only 10%. The NEC directive, which, what is to be said, is being applied in this legislative proposal here, so there is much more to be done. So, I really think that what is missing is that you bring something that can help the major cities in Denmark. In the urban communities where you have district heating, where district heating is the heat source, and where, if you don't have enough radiators in your house, you can have another radiator installed, and then you can keep warm, you don't have to have these wood stoves that pester the city air. Can the Minister not see that we need to do something extra to help municipalities reduce the number of wood stoves in district heating areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135504	The short answer is: yes, we need to do more. And one of the things that the Social Democratic Party has pointed out before the elections is, among other things, that the municipalities are being given the opportunity to restrict to some extent exactly how, and we know that we have said so. That is why my message is again that we will not be finished with regard to particulate pollution in Denmark; there will be many steps we need to take in relation to limiting air pollution. It was also mentioned that we have a problem with ammonia, earlier in the debate, and that is right, and that is something that we are addressing now, as we have said and reported this autumn. With what the Committee of Experts has just said, we will also have to take a number of steps there to ensure that we get to the point where we have committed ourselves to each other in Europe. But it is also because we think it is the right thing to do. We want the Danes to have clean air in Denmark, and therefore we need to take some steps along the way, and this is an example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135606	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135607	Okay, we'll take 10%. of the right steps with this bill, and then there's 90 percent. Back up. I have already submitted committee questions about this with what can be done within the current legislation to help municipalities to be more restrictive and what needs to be done by new legislation to help municipalities reduce the number of kilns in district heating areas. So we get the answers in committee and then we have to find out if we can adjust this bill or if we have to instruct the minister to come up with a new proposal that will help ensure that we reach those last 90 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135642	I think we have a very good cooperation, but I have no doubt that Enhedslisten would like to impose many things on the government. However, as I have said, we cannot have good cooperation, including on the next steps to be taken on this. In relation to what the rapporteur said about what we really need to achieve, it is true that there is also a barrister by 2030, but it is not strange or wrong that everything that has to be achieved by 2030 has not been achieved by 2020. But we also have a problem by 2020, and that is why we are tackling this now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135716	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135718	Well, we share the ambition that we should have replaced the most polluting ones, which are typically the oldest furnaces as quickly as possible. That is why my question follows on from what Mr. René Christensen mentioned: which tool will then be the most effective in achieving the goal that we share? Is this the tool for which we were on target, that is, where we made a scrapping premium, where we got replaced plus 20,000 kilns in a year and a half? Or is it what the government is proposing, with coercion and fines and costs for the citizens, but where the minister says it is 43,000 over the period? It's a long time. So if we are talking in isolation about the two tools against each other, which of the two tools would be the most effective way of replacing the kilns as quickly as it is now possible to do the subsidy scheme, i.e. the premium scheme, or the compulsory scheme at the time of change of ownership?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135811	I don't know if I'm the only one who gets a little confused about the position of the Left in this area. For, as has also been mentioned in the Chamber earlier today, the current President of the Left, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. And it has to be said that rhetoric is a little different today. And it may well be that we look at it differently, but we think that there is a need for regulation in wood-burning furnaces, because we know and we can see that they are very important for the discharge of particles. That means 43,000 extra replacements alone with this step. Are we going to finish it? No, we do not, but it is an important and significant step, and I really thought that the Left supported it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135902	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135906	I would therefore appreciate it if the Minister were to try to reply to what I asked. So, I'm trying again: which of the two tools is the most powerful in terms of replacing the old-fashioned wood-burning furnaces that are most scumbags as soon as possible? Is that what applied and still applies, with the premium and with the subsidy scheme, or is it a compulsory regime for the transfer of ownership, which was proposed with the bill here? Which of the two options is the most effective in relation to the speed of the replacement, which we share the ambition about to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022135937	But that is because the rapporteur also changes the conditions in his question. After all, I replied to what the effect was: it is 43 000 compared with the 25 000 that the rapporteur then insists on. And 43,000 is higher than 25,000. And then I also replied to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there is of course also a loss of weight, because there will be a replacement in advance on the scrapping pool that has been created. But it is easy to choose politically to stand for it and to want it. And we have, of course, also set out that you can look at it locally as well. So it's not because we're against it; it's just not part of this proposal. And I think it would be really nice if the Left were to back it up, also because a scrapping scheme is, after all, about financing. It is not really about legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140019	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140021	Thank you, and thank you for the bill. I would like to know what the justification is for choosing a purchase date as the point of intersection rather than going in and looking at the pollution level of the wood stove itself. Is it not possible to require very polluting wood-burning furnaces replaced at change of ownership rather than to require wood-burning furnaces of a certain date to be replaced?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140052	First of all, thank you for your support for the bill. I am glad that the Liberal Alliance will also support this. In relation to where the deadline should be set, it is true that this is one of the things we have looked into. On the one hand, you have to find a place where it is possible to check and find out both for the citizens and for the chimney sweeps, which are going to check, and also for the Environmental Protection Agency in the end. There we think there is a balance here around 2003 where it is actually possible. However, I fully agree with this and that is also why an authorisation has just been incorporated into the draft law that there should be the possibility of modernising the draft law as new opportunities are created in relation to the wood-burning furnaces and that stricter requirements can be made if there is a desire to do so. And that is one of the things that exactly the authority allows for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140145	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140148	We surely agree that there are some kiln models that have been sold both before 2003 and after 2003 and that they are the same, i.e. it is the same furnace model that has been sold before and after 2003. The one sold after 2003 is no less polluting than the one sold before 2003 because they are the same. If you simply focused on how much they pollute and used it as the starting point for whether they should be scrapped or not, it would be better than if you were based on a date. So the question is: is it really not possible to put in place a provision stating that certain furnaces pollute a lot of things that need to be replaced at the time of change of ownership, and not furnaces by a certain date?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140237	As I have said, we have chosen 2003 because it offers an opportunity for real control. It is true that it will ultimately be the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that will have to make that decision, but it is therefore an option that is at that date, precisely because some other things have come into force that you can look at around that year. However, what is built into the bill is also the possibility that, in the long term, you can look at particle emissions from the kilns for example. So that is something that is possible, also because the furnaces are being modernised, and that is why there is greater flexibility if you get closer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140318	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140346	The debate is open. We are giving the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140355	Thank you for that, President. In the social democracy we are very concerned about the state of the aquatic environment. We see it as an important task to take better care of our aquatic environment. This is difficult to reconcile with larger and more marine farms. Marine farming emits, among other things: nitrogen and phosphorus directly into our aquatic environment, and this is a great strain on the aquatic environment. That is why the Minister for the Environment announced last year that she had decided not to issue the decree which should have implemented the law on compensatory measures. Therefore, it has never been implemented in practice. In this way, we support putting a green line where we do not have experiments or experiment with our aquatic environment with undocumentable compensatory marine instruments. With the bill we are discussing today, we are going the last step along the road. The aim of the draft law is to abolish the authorisation to lay down rules on compensatory marine measures with the extension of marine farming. In concrete terms, the draft law will abolish the scheme which would have allowed marine users to obtain permission for additional emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus, bearing in mind that marine users have established compensatory measures in the form of, for example: mussel farming to absorb nutrients from marine-based waters. The motivation was a desire to create an increased marine production with our aquatic environment as an experimental object, a desire that we do not share. In the social democracy, however, we want Denmark to be a green forerunner based on the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector on land, where, of course, the pressure on the aquatic environment is not so great, rather than at sea. Technological development has also already produced modern landworks that can clean up nutrients and organic material • a technology that does not exist for marine agriculture • and that is the way we think we need to go. We are determined to protect our aquatic environment better. Therefore, applications for marine production must continue to be dealt with in accordance with the rules already in force and therefore without the possibility of recourse to compensatory measures. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140603	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140607	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for the comments. Now the rapporteur says that you want to be a green forerunner and that you therefore want to have a development where you make so-called land-based farming instead of those who are out at sea because, according to the rapporteur, the land-based facilities had to pollute less. Where did the rapporteur come from? In other words, where does the nitrogen emissions from land-based plants disappear into the air? Or perhaps it could be that they discharged it directly into the water plan areas, as opposed to those which have marine farms that are completely out on open water, that is, outside the water plan areas. Does the rapporteur have any views on that point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140649	Thank you. If I have made such a clear statement, it is clear that I have to make it clear that pollution in a land-based plant is of course the same, but that it is taking place in better and more controlled forms. It is, after all, about what is called point pollution. What is the problem with the marine farms already in the water in relation to the aquatic environment out there is that it is also point pollution, and therefore mussels and seaweed will not be able to collect that pollution or nitrogen increase or whatever is in that area. That is the problem with it, and a land-based plant will be able to compensate for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140728	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140729	Yes, but we must surely agree that the emissions of nitrogen, for example in the Danish belts, are via a flow that comes from the Baltic Sea up the Kattegat and into the North Sea and back again. That is the total amount of nitrogen we are talking about. That is why I am a little surprised to hear that you want to produce a production that has a small impact, because if you pick up the same or something similar to it, you know, for example. A clam production has the effect of picking up what has been led out in the accounts. Why is Social Democracy so opposed to this? So this is also about sustainable production, and the impact that that production may have is what is being picked up in the form of these marine instruments, which the Social Democrats are now opposed to. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140815	I would very much like to inform the rapporteur of why. It is clear that it is because it is not fully documented, according to what among others. Danish Aquaculture says. Danish Aquaculture says among other things: in their consultation answer that it is a relatively new instrument and that it has not been tested in all types of waters. It is clear that we cannot take this as the basis for what to say we are playing kispus with our aquatic environment. So I guess that'll be the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140849	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140853	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for helping to clean up the polluting blue agricultural package and help roll back this bill. I listened to the rapporteur, just as he pointed out that these land-based aquaculture could be part of the solution, and I can see that in the observations made by the draft law, and in theory that is also true. And I really think it would be nice to have an update on how experience has been with the land-based facilities we have in Denmark. For there were at least some of them who were granted a permit with a certain amount of nitrogen which they had to deduce, and then they established themselves, and then the reality became another, and there were then some municipalities that were pressured to relate to whether the plants had to shut down or whether they had to continue with a higher pollution than what was the prerequisites. Is the rapporteur aware that this is the case with some plants?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022140958	I am not aware of any specific examples of this. It is clear that this is something that we can look at between the first and second readings of the legislative proposal, and it will of course be exciting to see what experience already exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141015	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141030	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank you for allowing us to have this discussion in connection with the bill, and I also acknowledge the Minister and the Government's contribution to what can be said about trying to raise this agenda in terms of how we protect our marine environment and the aquatic environment at all. It is now not a great surprise that we are not very much in favour of the proposal, since it is a proposal that is rolling back some rules that we ourselves led to introduce. So it is just as out of the question that we are not voting in favour of the proposal. Having said that, however, we would of course always like to take part in looking at what measures are needed to protect nature, the environment and the aquatic environment to the best of our ability. It is, of course, my opinion, precisely about the means of action and the possibilities that we have here that, if you have a particular type of production, there is also an opportunity to be able to compensate for the influence that might exist. One might ask: What is the alternative? Of course, the production is completely shut down, and I know that some people are prepared to do it, and we were just out of it. But is this going to go away? No, it does not, because that production will, of course, take place elsewhere, it could be north of the Polish coast, or it could be in Germany or elsewhere. My point is, of course, that the discharges that may be from marine farms are part of the overall Baltic Sea, the Belts and Kattegat, and there is precisely a very, very large change of water in those areas. So it is the same nitrogen that then comes out. It just comes out of Poland, where you probably have some other conditions to be able to raise the fish under than we do in Denmark. On the other hand, the jobs and exports that come with will also have moved to Poland or Germany, and we can of course polish our halo in Denmark and say: Look, we are skilled, we have no production. But, on the other hand, we have the same effect on the marine environment, and, as we know, the marine environment does not know national borders. That is why I think it would be clearly most attractive for us in Denmark to ensure proper framework conditions for this, so that under controlled conditions we also have the opportunities that lie precisely with the rules that apply today, so that if you make an impact, you can have an expansion of your production in return for making a compensatory effort, for example in mussel farming, and that is at least one of the things that works. There has been an analysis under the heading "Marine Virkekfunder" which has recently been made by Aarhus University, SDU and DTU, and if you look up the one I think it is on page 10, you can read as a quote: Farming mussels is the marine instrument that has the most extensive documentation in Danish waters. And further: Both the rearing of mussels, the cultivation of sugar seaweed and the restoration of eelgrass have been tested on a larger scale in several areas in Denmark and are estimated to be operational, i.e. effective, immediately. So there are some possibilities that you can have both sensible and sustainable production with the jobs in the outermost regions. It's not just the water edge, it's outside the water, it's out there, it's in the water that the jobs are exports with income for our all-out welfare communities, and at the same time have some means to protect our marine and water environment. I have noted in the comments on the proposal that the government is expressing a concern about the state of the aquatic environment, and one can always have that concern, and we certainly also have a concern that we should take care of our aquatic environment. However, I still think that when legislation is being drafted, it should not be based on a gut feeling, that is to say, a concern, but that it should be based on more factual information and some professionalism, and I do not think that can be said to be the case here. It is fair that you do not want that production, that you do not want those jobs, but then you have to say it instead of trying to • put some obstacles in the way of a profession developing with the resultant income into our common social fund. Having said that, we are, of course, against the proposal as it stands here, as I said at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141445	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141449	In the Enhedslisten, we are also concerned about the aquatic environment, and if we look at the major task of reducing nitrogen pollution from 55,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes in 2027, then we do not need new plants to pollute more or to expand existing farms to pollute more. That is why it is really good to roll back this legislation, which was implemented by the former Left Government, which opened up the possibility of expanding sea farms with these so-called compensatory measures. Now the rapporteur refers to the fact that there are some places where a report has been produced that say that the compensatory measures are working, but we have extensive experience that compensatory measures work, for example. from Horsens Fjord and the concrete facilities that have previously been?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141548	I can of course refer to what I mentioned earlier, i.e. that Aarhus University, SDU and DTU have made that report. Now I won't read the quotes again. It has been tested on a larger scale as it appears. It is also clear that there are places, and I admit this, where the impact can be greater than elsewhere, and that is of course some of the things that need to be included when you need a permit to operate a sea farm or for that matter to expand it. You do vvm surveys. In other words, you are simply looking at what impact it is on the environment. Are there any habitat areas affected? Is there any other thing that means that you should not have the permission to operate a sea farm, let alone expand it? I think that is the most sensible thing to do. The least sensible thing would then be to say that we cannot operate this kind of production in Denmark, and then we will get exactly the same effect just from Poland or Northern Germany instead, because production will take place. It just takes place where it can be done, of course financially, but also professionally. And there it is just that the place where you can say that it is most professionally justified to grow this kind of production is actually in Denmark because of different conditions, namely salt content and salmon lice and other things that we do not have in Denmark as opposed to many other places. So there is also a professional reason why it would be sensible to do so. Once again, it must be stressed that the climate and the environment do not know national borders. This is also true in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141706	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141708	Now it is the case that we look forward to the aquatic environment being of good ecological quality in Denmark in a number of coastal areas, and this also applies to the coastal areas where there are existing marine farms in Denmark. I am aware that what has been tested down around Endelave Sea and Dambrug has not worked properly and a report has been made on it. So you can have some theoretical ideas that some clams on lines and seaweed can pick up something, but that doesn't measure up to reality. That is why I think it is very good that this bill is being implemented, so you drop walking down the blind road that you were about to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141742	It is actually very impressive that Enhedslisten now says that you should not look at the professionalism that Aarhus University, SDU and DTU come with, because it's just theory, but we have to go out into the real world and look at things. However, this also applied to Enhedslisten in many other contexts, where we also talk about some of the things Aarhus University brings in, for example. on nitrogen emissions from agriculture. There we have a long discussion about what it is then that works and what it really is that reality shows. But there is Enhedslisten of a different view because it does not fit into their political reality picture or world picture. In any case, I have to say that is the case. Of course, I am also referring to what is stated in that report, and also to the fact that this is something we are asking for, in order to have the opportunity to operate sustainable production with subsequent jobs and exports.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141823	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141825	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. If you are to be a little harsh, you can say that it is a little lack of vision that the rapporteur says that if we make some extra green demands here in Denmark, it will just move away, and therefore we should not be greener in this country because we do not believe that the other countries will be able to keep up with etc. It is very little visionary; I think that is a pity. But the rapporteur must also recognise that it is not just a matter of nitrogen. After all, it is also a question of medicinal residues and excipients, for example. chemicals in the networks, which pose some challenges and which actually cause pollution in some of these areas where they need to be set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022141912	I was just trying to say that when you look at these things, you have to look at it from an environmental point of view, and if you do so, and if you know a little about how water flow is in our belts in Denmark, Storebælt, Lillebælt, Kattegat, Baltic Sea, North Sea, you know that in those areas there is a huge change of water, and that is the same water being moved up from the Baltics, Poland up our belts, out the North Sea and back again. That is why it is also there that you have to look at together, where it is that the influence can take place within the framework that now applies. There it is just that I say what happens if we put down some restrictions and give some worse opportunities to drive this kind of production in Denmark, and that is what I hear the government wants to do. We do not want the outermost regions, on which we also had a discussion just before about the previous proposal. You don't want to do that in this case either. We are also talking about jobs. It is also exports. It is also income for our common fund. On the other hand, we would like to impose restrictions on the profession, which means, of course, that they move to Poland with exactly the same effect on the same marine environment as we are talking about. I am very incomprehensible about the social democracy being involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142021	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142022	Thank you. Now I too agree with the rapporteur's premise that jobs are moving out of the country. I do not think that is necessarily going to happen; it is certainly not the experience elsewhere. But I would also just like to say that a municipality such as Norddjurs has just said in the hearing reply that they are happy about this because they are sorry that it destroys their recreational opportunities and the opportunities they have to increase tourism, and we have to say that Norddjurs is also an area where there is a little sparsely populated. I do not think this is really related to the logic that the rapporteur is trying to outline in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142101	Of course there are always local conditions, but I can then just refer to other mayors. It may be the Social Democratic Mayor of Bornholm who also lives on tourism. She really wanted to have some marine farming and some occupation in her local area. I think the Minister may be aware of that too. So, of course, there are different views on this. I am just trying to say that from an environmental point of view we must look at how the environment is being affected. There it is not just my claim, but the fact that the environment does not know national borders. So, if you place some restrictions on a profession in one place, it will of course move to where it pays better to be, and it could then, for example, be off the North Pole border. And what happens then? After all, it is the same effect on the same aquatic environment that we are talking about that we want to protect. So that's just what I'm trying to argue for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142148	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142204	Thank you for that, President. As the former rapporteur on the Left said, perhaps this is about something quite different from what the draft law is proposing, and it is enough that you do not want marine farming. And it is also fair to have the political consideration. We're standing somewhere else. We also find it strange that when we talk about forms of production in a sector producing food, we do not work on how to do it in harmony with nature and the environment. This has been tried to do with the compensatory measures that have been mentioned, and we think that is the right way to go. We must be an innovative society that moves forward and that looks at the challenges we face, including when we look at nature and the environment. The position taken by the government is quite different: we must not be innovative; we must not strengthen the jobs and income of marine farming, for example, we must close them down. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party think this is a completely wrong direction to take. This does not mean that we simply have to produce from the premise that it creates growth and employment. Of course, we also have to produce in harmony with nature and the environment, but it also requires us to use instruments to counteract the pressures of all forms of production, both on land and on water. That is why I think we are at such a crossroads today, where the government says that it is innovative, that it is looking at how we can develop environmental measures in Denmark, that we should not be involved in the future. We will not be in the lead on this, so we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142351	Thank you. There is a request for a brief comment; we are going with it, so I would ask the rapporteur to stand still. Mr President, we have the floor. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142404	Thank you. It is very good that the Danish People's Party believes that compensatory measures can be the right way to go, but the rapporteur must also recognise that it is quite important that we build our parliamentary work on a professional and factual basis. That is exactly what has been pointed out: that there are simply no verifiable effects of this, and especially in relation to what I mentioned earlier, on point pollution. I can also say that Danish Aquaculture, which has a great advantage in this, says itself that their facilities and the theories they now have are not really tested. They say, among other things::... compensation farming with mussels and the cultivation of seaweed is a relatively new instrument which has not been tested in all types of waters. It has to be precisely that this is quite new, and we can't play in this way what to say about the contract staff or use our environment as a purely experimental area, since we are now dependent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142507	But that's not what the bill is all about. After all, the draft law does not deal with the specific compensatory measures; it is that you do not want to work with compensatory measures. You have to remember what you decide down here in the Chamber. It is not about the two instruments, mussels and seaweed; it is generally about instruments in relation to marine farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142527	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142528	Thank you. I agree with that, that is, what the draft law is about, but these are the instruments that are now in place. After all, they are the ones that have been put forward; they are the ones that Danish Aquaculture itself also mentions, i.e.. the producers themselves. Where I start to get nervous, when all these fishermen who make a living fishing in the areas out here also mention themselves that such places with marine farming cause some problems in relation to their work. The Fisheries Association has been out to mention this, including a few local cases, i.e. this is something that they are concerned about and that they want it to be examined further if it is to be used. That is why it is fair to say that this is an opportunity; this is obviously too far off in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142617	If we are now to look back at the Prime Minister's opening speech, the Prime Minister actually told us all down here that this is going to be difficult: it will be difficult to reach our environmental goals, it will be difficult to reach our climate targets. We will only achieve it if we do it together, and we must do it both as public companies and as private companies. We need to be innovative. It doesn't come by itself. But what are we deciding here now? We decide that we will no longer work on it, that it is difficult and that we therefore do not have to work any more on compensatory marine instruments. It is quite the opposite of what the Prime Minister said to us a few days ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142651	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022142704	Thank you. We also warmly support the proposal, which is, of course, about removing the possibility of using these marine instruments to develop the marine sector. We were also very critical of this at the time when the then government and the then majority in the Folketing introduced the possibility, which fortunately did not come into operation. But we are glad that this opportunity is now being cut off. And we are because we do not want to gamble with the Danish waters, which are already in a very vulnerable state very far from what we call good ecological condition, where the exact addition of nutrients is one of the major risk factors. There's been a little talk here about the marine instruments, that is, how sure we can really be that they absorb these nutrients. We cannot quite do that, and that is why we certainly have no doubt that we should not gamble with the marine environment. But there is also a different perspective on this than the environmental perspective. There is also the perspective of how we want to use our waters and our seas. And it is, of course, a discussion that we will also have in another negotiating room very soon. And the trend I think has been able to observe over the last 10 to 20 years, and as I think we only really understand the danger now, is, of course, that much of what we are beginning to see the consequences of on land, we are then moving out on water. Because out there it's kind of more invisible when things have environmental costs. It may also be a little more invisible if something takes up space for other things. However, when this draft law on marine instruments was discussed, it was not only reservations about the state of the environment in the oceans that were under discussion. It was also the use of the oceans. In other words, compared to those who use our inland waters and our seas recreationally, it is also space that is taken up for this type of activity. And that is where I think we need to have a more holistic look at the way we use our waters. And we need to be careful that we don't just move activities out there. It may be fine if we move wind turbines from land to water. And it's also fine that we move gravel pits from land to water ■ fine enough. Now we also move fish farms out to sea in the form of sea farms, and the individual examples can be meaningful and fine. But it just adds to the total load on our water and our ocean. And the resource it is is becoming more and more pressured. And that is why we want a more holistic perspective on how we use our seas and our waters. And there we think that the perspective underlying the proposal for these marine instruments was very one-sided. It was about how we develop aquaculture. It was an economic sector perspective, whereas we lacked a very safe basis in relation to the environmental aspect, but also the more general perspective in relation to how we use the sea as a resource. So there are limits to how much we can move out there and how much we can draw on that resource if we want the sea to be used for other things, for example. recreational things, and that there still has to be an animal and plant life. So, on that basis, I can say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143101	I would like to thank the radical rapporteur for his comments. In fact, I very much agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe, at least in the last part of what she said about having an overall plan, a holistic approach to our marine environment. I think that's a good way to look at it. And now, hopefully, we will also be involved very strongly in the Folketing in relation to a sea strategy and the things that lie around it. We have also talked about marine national parks in Øresund, and I know that SF has had some suggestions about this. So there are some thoughts about this, just in a larger whole. I very much agree with that. But now the rapporteur said, and that is what led me to say, that with seafarms it has been moved out, and then it could be done a little in secret. In other words, can the rapporteur not confirm that one cannot be allowed to make a sea farm, one cannot obtain an extension permit for a sea farm unless it has been thoroughly examined in a vvm analysis, what effects it may have on the environment, if necessary, before such a permit can be obtained? Can the rapporteur just confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143200	Yes, I can confirm that, and it certainly wasn't meant in that way that someone sneaked out there at night and put up some nets and threw a lot of fish down there, went home when it was light, and only went out there again when it got dark. It has been regulated politically, and that is what we are doing now by saying that we do not want to throw even more energy into developing this sector, because there are still so many uncertainties about the environment and because the sea is therefore a scarce resource. And right now it is our impression that the demand for sea uses far exceeds what the sea can actually sustain, and that is why we are putting the brakes on, among other things. Here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143245	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143247	All honour and respect for the concern that one can always have. I am wondering whether the radical rapporteur has any views on the fact that, for example, we are dealing with the problem of unemployment. If that production were removed, it might as well be the ultimate goal to say that we should not have marine farming in Denmark at all and what would then happen to that production. So, the demand is there, and would that production then disappear, or would it move somewhere else? What does the radical rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143311	I don't know. However, I would say that there is, of course, a difference between environmental impact and climate impact. Because it is true that for the climate it makes no difference where pollution or emissions happen, but it actually means something to us if the discharge of nutrients occurs with us. Then it is our nature, our sea or our country that pays the price. So there's a difference between that leak discussion, because it's not just that financial income goes somewhere else, but they also bear the environmental costs that we then get rid of in return.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143350	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143358	Thank you. SF supports this proposal wholeheartedly. It is very good that it is no longer possible to compensate for pollution caused by sea-farming. This means that another gaping gap has been left behind by the agricultural package. The then Minister for the Environment Esben Lunde Larsen's creative environmental space is thus gone. It would be very good if a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, and preferably the entire Parliamentary Assembly, could state in the discussion of this proposal that it should not generally be possible to pollute and then try to retrieve pollution from the sea by various means far away from the source of pollution. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment has already stated this in an answer to Mrs Signe Munk, where the Minister, among other things, has made it clear. writes: If so, marine means will not replace the effort on the crop area, but will be able to complement the agricultural effort. It would be very useful to make this clear when this bill is adopted here. This means, of course, that the so-called environmental clam projects cannot replace the effort on agricultural land. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143510	All I have to ask is whether the SF wants to see marine farming in Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143519-2	No, SF doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143524	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022143537	Thank you. I can start by welcoming from the Alternative, which supports the bill. So does Enhedslisten. We consider this to be an important part of cleaning up after the blue agricultural package. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, shortly after she became a minister, she stated that the government did not want there to be any more marine farms and that existing marine farms should be allowed to expand. That was a clear statement, and now we have a legislative proposal to follow up on it. I think there will be more work to do with the next bill, but we are faced with a number of marine farms in Denmark that are not legal because we have not implemented habitat assessments on those marine farms in Denmark. This is actually a very serious situation, but it is not the fault of the current government. It is, in effect, the fault of several previous governments. So I would say that if you had gone on with this, what would have gotten out of it? Then it would probably have been necessary to meet some applications, and then clams would come on line, and those clams would then have caused a point contamination under those lines. Would you then have come up with a good product, some good clams that you could eat? No, it would be pork food. That's the quality you produce out there on these lines. And what exactly are we dealing with? Yes, we do not get very high in the quality chain in what is then produced. I would say that, after this bill has been adopted, seaweed cultivation and mussel cultivation can be produced. This is not because the bill prevents seaweed growing in our gardens. It is not, of course, because it prevents you from having mussel cultivation on lines if you think it is attractive. But it is not just a part of something that is compensatory in relation to dealing with polluting marine farms. I think we are faced with a very important task of meeting the Water Framework Directive and reducing nitrogen pollution from 55 000 tonnes to this 42 000 tonnes. It's a huge task. Well, we're not gonna get there in a minute. This is, after all, equivalent to pollution from a city of 2.6 million people. And that is not because we have plenty of untreated waste water in Denmark. So we come to the conclusion that it is agriculture that has to deliver, and the reduction we have to achieve there is equivalent to 4.5 million fewer pigs for fattening. And in this situation, it would be quite foolish to allow seafarmers to extend their pollution to the seas. We would then be faced with an even greater problem, because there is no proper evidence that these compensatory measures really work. After all, attempts have been made at Endelave Havbrug with some compensatory plants with seaweed and mussels. On the basis of the consultation answers, it does not appear that it has been a success. So it would have been to gamble with the sea if it had been the case that the legislation in question had continued. In committee, it might actually be interesting to hear whether anyone has made use of this L 111 which was adopted under the previous government. Has anything been done that was enlargement and that had compensatory measures in place? The debate here today has mentioned jobs. But frankly, when you look at the hearing answers from the municipality of Aarhus and from the municipality of Norddjur, it is not something they have in their hearing answer. The marine farms located in East Jutland are incredibly few jobs in. I am well aware that when you have raised those small trout on land, there are, of course, little jobs in it. And what happens to watching the trout in the cages? There are a little jobs in it. Then some ship comes from outside butchering these trout, and then in Japan you can buy some pretty fresh trout roe. Yes, there is of course an export in that, but actually talking about this being something that creates many jobs in Denmark.I don't think so, I'm sorry, but I don't think so.What is the emphasis in your hearing answers from the Municipality of Norddjur and from the Municipality of Aarhus? It's kind of that you appreciate having a clean sea. What is it you have to live on in Norddjurs Municipality? Yes, it is, among other things, that there are tourists coming to North Jutland and enjoying that there is a nature that is reasonably clean. It is appreciated that at different times of the year you can go to the sea and be an angler, can go and bathe during the bathing season, can go and have some natural experiences. This is why a number of municipalities have responded so strongly • Norddjurs Kommune, Syddjurs Kommune, Samsø Kommune • against the plans to allow more sea farms off the coasts of Djursland. I am very pleased that that is not what has become reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144041	I would like to thank the rapporteur for keeping track of time, on the one hand, and for exercising self-righteousness on the other. It's very much appreciated. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144051	I'm okay now, too. No, joke aside, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The Enhedslisten usually cares a lot about developing and we have to come up with new environmental measures so that we can have a better nature, a better climate and a better environment, but what we are doing here is actually removing the possibility of having a production. No matter what we produce, we influence the environment in one direction or another, and there we work all the time on how we can compensate for it, and we do so in different ways. Now you're telling me you're gonna stop doing that. Because what we are doing here is laying down conditions for the establishment and operation of compensatory maritime instruments. It could also be that the Minister had proposed that if we are to set up a sea farm, much stronger measures should be taken, so that we must combat the strain that exists even more. Then we could talk about how we could get there. I guess it's strange to have an area where they say that now we're dropping the innovative in gaining knowledge of how we can produce in harmony with nature and the environment. That's what really puzzles me. Does the rapporteur not think that doing so in other areas is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144201	I really think it is strange that we have allowed such production in our common sea to be allowed to have such polluting production, food production, out at sea. And I think it is particularly important to consider what has been of stricter requirements for agriculture to deal with, for example. livestock manure, which has been tightened up over time, and then there is something prehistoric lying out at sea which can be allowed to continue with polluting production in terms of nitrogen and phosphorus and in terms of the medicinal residues in the feed and in terms of the copper that is in the nets. I mean, I think it would be very good if we came to the conclusion that from now on, in the context of these habitats assessments, we are going to have a phasing-out of these illegal marine farms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144253	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144254	I believe that what the rapporteur is now saying speaks violently against the rapporteur's speech, because then there should be no development. Those who are there now can stay there and stay in the rhetoric that is up from the platform, pollute and smash it all, and we should not work on how to reduce the period they at least have left. That's what's gonna happen now. All the development and research that has been involved in this has now stopped, because it cannot now be capitalised. That's how the market works. So the rapporteur also accepts that those who have the permits now can just continue and that there should be no compensatory measures in relation to them. We in the Danish People's Party find this a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144333	I have noted that the police have brought an action against an owner of one of the marine farms and have demanded that 190 million. kr. They must be detained because they are illegally served by producing too much pollution. So somebody's been focusing on it. Then I think it is a major problem that we have not implemented the habitats directive in Denmark, so we have marine farms that do not meet our international obligations. Hopefully by next spring, we will see that we have habitat assessments on all marine farms and thus see to what extent they are illegal and to what extent they should not be allowed to put fish into cages next spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144413	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144414	Should I understand Enhedslisten's rapporteur so that Enhedslisten is in favour of banning all production in Denmark, which has a discharge to the environment or climate, of any kind? Do you want me to understand it that way? Because that is what the rapporteur said, namely that we might as well ban these marine farms because they have an environmental impact. I should like to say that there are other productions in Denmark which also have, for example. agriculture. Should we then ban agriculture in Denmark, should we ban Aalborg Portland, windmills, anything that has an impact? Is it the position of Enhedslisten that all production and thus Danish jobs that result in emissions to climate or environment should be banned in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144457-2	My comment should be understood as meaning that the habitats directive that applies throughout the European Union and that Denmark has not implemented, because changing environmental ministers have failed and failed to meet international commitments, we must now have implemented it. This means, of course, that aquaculture cannot continue if it is the case that it can be demonstrated that the habitat assessment shows that it has a negative effect on Natura 2000 sites at sea. That is quite clear, and I am, in fact, extremely important when it comes to protecting environmental interests at sea. So it should not be understood that we are opposed to all production that only pollutes a little, but we therefore have some international obligations that Denmark has been poor at fulfilling. I mean, what about this Water Framework Directive, you're just going to keep postponing the effort we're going to make in Denmark to reduce our nitrogen pollution? Well, the previous government didn't do enough. A blue agricultural package was adopted which allowed agriculture to hog more and then introduced a regulation of agriculture afterwards, which has shown that it did not keep water. So we are in a worse situation after the last government we had.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144605	Sir. Jacob Jensen, second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144606	Well, it's nice to hear from Enhedslisten that you're very much ahead of meeting the requirements that come from the EU. That is certainly a good thing if nothing else. For I agree that we must, of course, meet the requirements that are coming, but if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that we must have stopped and closed the illegal sea farms, can I just ask if Enhedslisten can tell us who is actually responsible for whether the marine farms that have now existed for perhaps 30-40 years have lived up to it and thus have the right and permission to be there? Is it the marine farms themselves, or is it the rulers who are responsible for ensuring that these things have been put in order? As far as I am concerned, that is the last thing, but I would just like to know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agrees with it before we go too far in the bar dunes and call what is actually an authority's responsibility illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144658	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144658-2	Well, it's illegal, and we'll come back to that in the next bill. I mean, I think it is important to comply with the demands of the European Union, and the previous government and what was the content of blue agricultural packages and the effect of that was something that went in the opposite direction. There, under Eva Kjer Hansen, there was such an intention that such a schedule could be drawn up, where there would be a reduction in nitrogen leaching every year in the future, and then it had to be observed that when we checked it was not the case; pollution would be increased and the Minister looked at that. So the previous government has not done enough to comply with the Water Framework Directive. The Enhedslisten has always focused on meeting the requirements of cross-border environmental problems that we have in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144742	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and welcome to Mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022144750	Thank you. The draft law here will de facto prevent the creation of new marine farms, and existing marine farms will not be allowed to expand. It seems to us premature. After all, every human activity has an environmental impact, including food production. It is therefore appropriate to compare production with the environmental impact in order to recognise whether a given production is too polluting. As Danish Aquaculture also points out, the possibility of compensatory environmental measures was introduced, and this happened after a thorough fact-based preparatory work which, according to Aarhus University, University of Southern Denmark and DTU Aqua, can be carried out with a high level of safety and a high area-specific nutrient removal. That is why I am calling for data to show the level of pollution and compare it with other activities. It's not enough to be worried. We need facts on the table. The government wants land-based aquaculture, but land-based aquaculture also pollutes. They pollute locally and emit nutrients near the coast, and that is what we do not want. It can therefore be said that the environment is more affected by land-based farming than by sea-farming. Then there is also a higher production technology compared to the land-based plants. This makes them more expensive and therefore there is also a greater risk that it will be too expensive to operate land-based plants in Denmark and that production will therefore move abroad. Then the environmental impacts will not be in Denmark, as Radicals also pointed out. They'll be abroad. Some of them will be in our immediate environment anyway, as the Left pointed out. And then there will be a transport cost that will also affect the climate. It is therefore not necessarily better to produce either on land or outside the country's borders. It may well be that the current existing authorisations for aquaculture are inappropriate. It may also be that the environmental compensatory measures are not adequate or inappropriate, as Enhedslisten has commented. But then let's discuss it. Let us discuss how we can develop the industry, how we can be more innovative, how we can adapt the environmental compensatory measures so that they give the greatest possible effect to Denmark. We need an active Danish business community, and this proposal prevents it. So the Conservative People's Party is concerned about this bill and is proposing instead of adjusting the existing legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145056	Thank you for the floor. In New Citizens, we do not form politics on the basis of concerns. We make a political assessment based on data, facts and research. And so do we in relation to this bill. The Minister conducts policy on the basis of a concern as stated in the draft law, and that is a pity because marine farming is a profession with a great many positive opportunities. Marine farming is an environmentally and resource-efficient food production with a low climate impact. Fish is a healthy and sought after food. Fish farming must mean less pressure on wild stocks. The sector can generate growth and new jobs in rural areas, and the sector contributes approx. 1 billion kr. in export earnings to Denmark. At global level, aquaculture is primary animal production with the highest growth rate of 6%. The business is large in other countries, e.g. Norway and the Faroe Islands. The EU and several Member States have European and national growth strategies for aquaculture. The emission of nutrients from Danish aquaculture is a minimal part of the total emissions. In 2018, Danish aquaculture released 347 tonnes of nitrogen. When this discharge is related to discharges from other sources, it corresponds to approx. 0,6% of nitrogen emissions from Denmark. The influx of nitrogen from the North Sea and the Baltic Sea is about nine times as large as the total Danish land influx. The emission of nutrients from marine farming is minimal compared to the other sources. This does not happen in critical areas and has no real significance. Aarhus University, University of Southern Denmark and DTU Aqua have assessed that the rearing of mussels as an instrument is proven practically possible with high safety and high area-specific nutrient removal. A previous report on maritime instruments also concludes that the agent has been tested in Danish waters and that the data base is sufficiently comprehensive to assess the effect operationally and ready for use in appropriate areas. However, now the government will abolish the possibility of sustainable growth in marine farming due to a concern. The government does not believe that Denmark should instead invest in the sustainable development of the sea aquaculture sector; instead, it should invest in fish farms on land. The draft law states that it does not have an economic impact on the sector, but it is not true because several companies have made investments in anticipation of the entry into force of the rules. So the bill puts an end to the growth of marine farming, which is associated with the loss of exports, tax revenues and jobs in rural areas. The starting point must be to ensure a reasonable balance between the use and protection of natural resources, taking into account the best available professional knowledge in the field. Then it can be added that the government would like to use compensatory methods when it is convenient. I am thinking, for example, of the focus on CO2 2 - let alone the use of biomass - unless biomass is recognised as CO2 New Citizens cannot therefore support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145445	The Liberal Alliance cannot support the bill. We have the approach to the discharge of nutrients into our waters that nutrients may be discharged, but that it must not exceed a certain level that does damage to our marine environment. We do not think that this proposal to limit the ability of marine farmers to develop with compensatory measures involves the aspect of whether it can be kept within a certain level of emissions. We also worry not so much about the state out there as the government, but we are concerned about the government's support parties, which seem to be indifferent to whether the emissions of marine farms lead to emissions above a certain level that can be accepted and are simply against marine farming as a principle and as an ideology. We have heard this both from Enhedslisten and from SF today. And we fear that this is what has led the government to go this way in a trade with the extreme left, rather than that it is real concern about the total discharge of nutrients into the marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145608	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Since the alternative was welcomed, all the rapporteurs from the parties have been there, and I can therefore welcome the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022145621	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate. I myself am incredibly pleased that we are now addressing this bill to repeal the rules on compensatory marine instruments for marine use. This was one of the things that I first signed out as a minister and which is very close to my heart. For the aquatic environment in Denmark is under pressure. We have not seen the reduction in nutrient emissions expected from water plans, and unfortunately we are still a long way from the target. So we're gonna have to make it clear that it's both mine and the government's very clear position. In marine farming fish are bred in nets cages at sea, which means that marine farms emit substances directly into the aquatic environment without any treatment. Marine farms emit nitrogen and phosphorus, they emit antibiotics and biocides, they emit organic material that can contribute to local oxygen loss. In other words, aquaculture is straining the Danish aquatic environment, and it is in this light that we need to see the bill. That is also why, in August last year, I announced, as I do today, that I do not want more or more marine farms in Denmark, and that is the simple reason why we should not open up an additional burden on the aquatic environment from marine farms. With the bill, we are now taking the next step. The aim of the draft law is to repeal the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act which allow for the expansion of marine production through the use of compensatory marine instruments. The provisions provide for the authorisation of marine farms to derive more nitrogen and phosphorus if they establish compensatory marine measures such as: mussel farming to absorb nutrients from the water area that the sea farm is straining. The scheme was introduced at the time in order to provide an incentive for further growth in the aquaculture industry. Sea users should be given the opportunity to compensate for the right to increased emissions. However, as I said, the government does not believe that we should burden an already pressured aquatic environment with increased discharges from marine agriculture. In concrete terms, therefore, we are also proposing that the current provisions of the Environmental Protection Act should be repealed, thereby abolishing the possibility of introducing rules on compensatory marine instruments for marine use. To the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I must point out, for the sake of good order, that the possibility of compensatory measures has never been used in practice. I have failed to issue the notice which should have led to the possibility. So the system, which we are now proposing to abolish, has never been applied. In other words, the draft law does not allow marine agriculture to be expanded or established by compensatory marine instruments in the future either. The amendment of the law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. Applications for marine production must continue to be dealt with in accordance with the rules in force, i.e. without the possibility of the use of compensatory marine instruments. This is an important milestone in protecting and taking care of the aquatic environment, and I would also like to sign for the sustained, active efforts of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the Danish Sports Fishermen's Association, local associations, citizens, but also some of the municipalities mentioned by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Aarhus, Norddjurs etc. This has helped to highlight precisely the challenges of aquaculture and important efforts have been made on their part. It is the government's view that Denmark should be a green forerunner country, including in fish farming, and that is why we want to focus in future on the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector on land rather than at sea. Technological developments in recent years have produced a new generation of high-tech, environmentally friendly land-based plants which differ significantly from marine agriculture. Modern land facilities can use efficient technologies to clean away nutrients and organic material. Similar technologies do not exist for aquaculture. In addition, modern rural facilities have greatly reduced the use of antibiotics, and in some cases they do not use them at all. Then modern land-based plants can recycle the water, which is positive from a resource point of view. For me, therefore, there is no doubt that the green way forward for agriculture is the land-based facilities. They pave the way for a future-proof, sustainable and green form of production. This will benefit both the aquatic environment and aquaculture. There is also great potential for green technology exports of modern plants, where Denmark is the world leader. That is not to say, and it has also been asked in the debate that modern land-based plants do not emit nutrients, for they do. Fish farming on land is certainly also associated with nutrient emissions, and of course we are also very aware of this, which is why those plants must also take into account a needy aquatic environment. However, the technologies are constantly being optimized and further developed in order to further reduce nutrient load, so that the arrow points in the right direction, and that is precisely the development and technology that we need to promote instead of expanding production from marine farming with increased pressure on the aquatic environment. So the aim of the draft law is to limit the incentive and opportunities for growth in the marine sector and to eliminate the possibility of using the compensatory marine instruments that the draft law otherwise allowed for in the past. We in the government want to protect our aquatic environment, and with this bill we are taking an important step in that direction. In those words, I would like to make good progress in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150206	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150211	Thank you, Minister, for your comments. In relation to the environmental impact the Minister himself mentioned this at the end and the discharge of nutrients from the so-called land-based plants, can the Minister say anything about where the environmental impact is taking place? Where does the nutrient emissions from the land-based plants take place? I know it is in the water plan areas, that is, close to the coast, in contrast to, in the nature of the matter, the sea farms, which then emit what they emit, but outside where there is a greater sea flow. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150245	The crucial difference between aquaculture and fish farming on land, and I also mentioned this in my introductory speech, is that the land-based plants have the opportunity to use, optimize and develop technologies specifically for the purification of nutrients, discharge monitoring and control, and that purification does not take place in marine production. So the production on land also offers the possibility of ensuring the health of fish to a greater extent and also of using less medicines and less inputs, which are also some of what we have been talking about in today's debate. So that's all the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150324	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150325	Does the Minister not recognise that the marine farms which are subject to environmental regulation are also subject to a vvm analysis, i.e. an environmental impact assessment must be carried out within the framework of the rules in force? Is it not a recognition that the Minister for the Environment can give here today, so that the rules that already apply also take account of the environmental impact through the vvm analyses that have to be carried out in order to obtain a permit at all? Moreover, this is a rather pseudo-discussion, in the sense that, as the Minister himself says, what is now being repealed has never been used, and besides, there has not been a single extension of any marine farming in the last ten or twenty years, or perhaps even longer. So it is a little more a symbolic policy action than it is of real environmental importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150411	I do not agree that this is symbolic policy, and I also believe that if you ask all those who have been extremely involved in this debate, they have just been, because there have been some applications, and in this context you have been concerned that if there was the possibility of compensatory marine measures with the risk that comes with the local water environment, for oxygen loss, some of the places where it seems very much in advance, you would see larger and more marine farms in Denmark, and that is what we do not want. So I simply do not agree with that premise. But it is clear, as we are also saying here, that we also recognise that there will be emissions for land-based installations, and this is what technology can do to limit them, and we have also opened a subsidy scheme of just under 40 million. kr., which plants on land can apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150503	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150506	Thank you. I do not want to ask you so much why the proposal is here. This is quite clear, and it is a political position that one may be allowed to have that one does not want this kind of production in Denmark. But what I just want to ask is the maritime instruments, that is, whether this also means stopping the development of it. In other words, we have research funds and we have many opportunities to work with innovation in relation to supporting measures in relation to the environment and climate. And I would just like to ask the Minister if, if there are any good ideas, she will also be positive about the fact that, after all, we will still be working on supporting maritime instruments in relation to nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150548	I think that there is a real difference between what was in the old law, namely that you could compensate for the risk that came with, in terms of extending or obtaining new location permits in relation to marine farming. But it is also clear that in relation to what might be involved in using the marine instruments, Aarhus University has also been involved in this debate and they have pointed out in connection with growing mussels the questions of how to do it, where there would be potential, which waters it would be able to help. And there, on the basis of it, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has started a project as recently as this year, so to uncover some of those things. So all the work on the marine instruments does not stop because they say that we do not want compensatory marine instruments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150637	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150642	After all, it is strange to hear this debate that there has been no request for enlargement of the sea. The way in which some marine farms have handled this is by overproduction, so that more nitrogen has been emitted than was permitted. And that is why there is then a matter that the police are trying to deal with and which, of course, ends up with some sort of result at some point. So there has been a production that is greater than the one authorised. The minister speaks up like those land-based plants. As a starting point, I am also in favour of them, and I helped to make this agreement on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund in the last period, and we are facing a new agreement. I think this is another name, but it is a bit the same content: that some money comes from the EU back to Denmark, which we then have to deal with and spend, and which can be used in different ways. And I think it would be important for us to have a proper evaluation of the land-based installations that we have had so far, because that is not just a sunshine story. It may be that you are developing on something you are getting better at, but you have not achieved it. So I think that we need a thorough evaluation of what has been before we proceed with this type of thing. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150751	I fully share the view that we are not finished with the land-based installations, and where we really want to go with them is with an even lower OEF than what we are seeing today, and there is also a question of scaling. But that is the technology we need to invest in, and I actually find that I very much agree with Enhedslisten when it comes to asking: where are we going to put our energies? Is this giving the opportunity for more large-scale aquaculture? The government does not think so, and I am listening to the fact that it is also very clearly the position of the Enhedslisten. However, we want to help create sustainable aquaculture in Denmark, and in that case it must be on land. There may also be a great many challenges to it, but that is where we put our strength politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150834	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150835	I agree in part with that. And I also think that we owe it to the municipalities that go into such processes that they are not left entirely alone afterwards. For there are places in Denmark where you can suddenly have a plant that pollutes more than the urban communities that have large wastewater treatment plants and which handle waste water from the cities in a responsible way; and then you can see that there is a new production right next door, which is very stressful. So I think we owe it to the municipalities to look at how we can help them if it is the case that there are some plants that are not going to be as good as expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150912	I myself have had a meeting with a number of directors who are in this field because there is also a demand for how to support and promote even more technology development in relation to the land-based installations. So there I actually see that there is a demand, but there is also a political will for us to look that way. And then there is a separate séance in relation to the marine farms that are already in place about completing the entire work of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150941	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022150957	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151020	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is important that we comply with EU law in our legislation. Our implementation of directives should, of course, reflect that. This bill is intended to meet the European Commission's request for a more directive-closer implementation of the vvm directive. The draft law responds to the criticism by clarifying and adjusting wordings in the Environmental Assessment and Stockpiling Act to ensure a more textual implementation of the VVM Directive; that is clear. In addition, the draft law also means that the competence of the VVM authority for coastal sea farms is transferred from the municipalities to the state, so that the authority for all marine farms is brought together in the state. It is an implementation of one of the initiatives included in the action plan for the clean-up of the aquaculture sector. The aquaculture sector is a risk to our aquatic environment, which is a necessity for us to monitor effectively, and therefore it does not make sense to have supervision spread out, but it does, on the contrary, make it unified as we propose in this legislative proposal. So, of course, it makes sense for us to bring it together. After all, we have to think about the fact that the approval competence for the environmental approval of the 19 existing marine farms today lies with eight different authorities and we need to clean that up, and we need to create a simpler and more efficient working procedure. The bill contributes to a more coherent regulatory framework and we in the Social Democratic Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151153	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur from the Left, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151203	Thank you for that, President. And thank the Minister for making the proposal. Of course, we also believe that it is obvious, as the Socialist rapporteur has just explained, that this is the part relating to the implementation of the EU directive, and hence also the letter of formal notice which the European Commission has put forward, that we must comply with it. There should be no doubt about that; of course we support the cooperation that lies there. So the changes and the part of the bill that will correct that, we are fully in agreement. On the other hand, we are not so happy with the second part and we may also be a little unappreciated as to why it should be mixed together in one proposal that is about moving supervision from the local, i.e. from municipal supervision, to centralize in the board. We do not see that there has been any problem with supervision. On the contrary, it has worked well; there has been a local knowledge, there have been some local approaches, one might say, to get these things handled in an appropriate way, that is, the part that has to do with supervision. This is also evident from the political agreement that has also been made, and of which this is part, but where we are not, because we are not in favour of centralisation, since we cannot see that there is any problem, which is what we are trying to solve. That's one reason. The second reason is that we too, more generally, are opposed to centralisation, and we thought that the government was, in relation to this, reading down in the understanding paper. I will give a single quote: "We must take a fight with the centralisation of Denmark. It has a value in itself that decisions are taken close to those to which they relate. This is not quite what is going on here; there you go the other way and say that you remove the decision-making power from the local relationship, and then you send it to Copenhagen, and then you sit there and handle it here. And it's not like that, maybe with a glimpse in the eye, but still with a spruce of seriousness because the board has always been eyeglassing. We have just talked about the problems that have been involved in legalising marine farms in order to comply with the directives and the requirements that need to be imposed on them, i.e. the location permits. It hasn't exactly been a golden moment for the board in this context. So it's not like you can say that it's completely unproblematic to move these things into a central place. We are certainly not in favour of that part. That is why we would also just like to propose in concrete terms that the legislative proposal could be divided into two parts: one part dealing with the implementation of the EU directive; and the other part, which could be an independent proposal, which we could then vote against if necessary. That's how you could divide it up. That must be my suggestion. But otherwise it was my comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151453	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151457	Thank you to the rapporteur for an enlightening speech. I think that the rapporteur is teasing a little by talking about centralisation. As I have at least understood, the authority is going to be just outside Copenhagen. It will lie in slagelse, as I understand it. That is why it may not be directly in the rapporteur's pastorate, but at least close to it, and it is certainly not in Copenhagen. Does the rapporteur not think that Slagelse is part of rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151534	Okay, I think so, sir. Kasper Roug must have. I'm gonna have to give it to him. I thought it was inside the board, but peace be to it. If it is in slagelse, it is in slagelse, and if so, it is fine. That's where I was taken a little bit backwards, I'll admit it. I have nothing against Slagelse, it is quite an excellent place, but let me say in general terms that we think that what you are trying to do with that part of the bill, that is to say with the move, is centralisation. Of course, you can argue for that. I just think you're trying to solve a problem that's not there, and that's kind of what I'm trying to say with this. Whether it is centered in Slagelse or in Copenhagen, perhaps in this context it is less important. But thank you for the information, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151615	Sir. Kasper Roug for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151618	Thank you, and you're welcome. I can only say that there is no doubt that this debate on centralisation is a little special, but here it is a question of having as effective and as professionally strong a control as possible. It is clear that we need to concentrate our efforts there. As I could understand from the consultation answers, the fact is that some of the municipalities are out to visit these facilities once every three years. You have to think about that. This is not very often, and this means that there is no way that there can be particularly strong competences in the municipalities. That is why it makes sense to bring it together so that we can get a stronger professionalism into control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151659	Of course, you can argue for that. I just don't see there's been a problem. That's more like what I'm referring to. On the contrary, it has just been the case that one also had a local knowledge of the places, unlike when one gets further away. And it is not to be polemical, but there is some policy in what is also stated in the paper of understanding, namely that there is a policy with a desire to make the decisions as close as possible to those to which they relate. After all, this concerns the local seafarms we are talking about and how supervision there is to be carried out. That is why I think that, if we are to live up to what we ourselves say in our understanding paper, including on this point, we really need to maintain supervision. Then, of course, you can support it with some professionalism if you need it. If so, the municipalities can ask for this where they feel they need it. I wouldn't mind. But I think we should have the decision-making powers closest to those to which it relates, according to the government's own understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151746	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151754	Thank you for that, President. As elected in Region Sjælland, you are glad that something is now happening in Slagelse ghost aside. As the previous rapporteurs have also said, there is some EU legislation here, and it is of course important that we ensure that we have equal competition and that we are also addressed in relation to the letters of formal notice that are coming. We have nothing to say about that. However, the next part of the proposal is critical of us, and why are we? We are, after all, because we think that with the size of the municipalities that we have and with the competences that are in the municipalities, it is wrong to send out the wrong signals that we start to take competences away from the municipalities time and time again. There is probably also the fact that you have a different attitude. So you don't want these marine farms, and that's why you want to have the decision-making powers a little closer to the minister. That may be fair enough, given the political attitude of the government and the support parties, but we do not think that this opportunity should be taken to take away from them more of the tasks that the municipalities have today, and therefore we cannot support the latter part. If there is a proposal to share the proposal, of course we have no difficulty in supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151923	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022151936	Thank you. We also support the proposal. The first part, of course, is not so much to say, because it is primarily about administrative matters. The second part is about bringing together the authority for the control of marine aquaculture, coastal aquaculture, and moving it to the state, and I would say that we are very much in favour of this, both because we think it is very reassuring that the professional competence can then be brought together, but also because it ensures a uniform handling of coastal marine farms that exist in Denmark. And in those words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152014	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152021	Thank you. I do not have so much to object to the bill in question. In short, it is about bringing the law into line with the European Commission's objections. SF agrees that competences should be transferred from the municipalities to the state when it comes to aquaculture. In relation to the Environmental Assessment Act and the Farming Act, the SF looks very positively at the involvement of the public, which has now been specified on the basis of new EU regulations. The draft law does not deal with the level of protection as such, but I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate SF's criticism of the current practice and legislation allowing livestock farming to derive more ammonia, although it is extremely doubtful whether Denmark will meet the commitments of the EU and the UN on reductions by 2020. It is still questionable that livestock farming is in practice reserved an area outside the holding for the recipient, where the municipalities are not allowed to designate nature under Green Denmark Card, and here room must be made for the holding to be able to expand at some point in time. It is highly questionable that stockfarming per head of population should not be carried out. definition should use the best available cleaning technology, BAT, as slurry acidification, and it is mysterious that changing governments have not seen an opportunity to develop an export adventure. But we must take that discussion in a different context. SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152143	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152157	Enhedslisten supports the bill. We are very much in favour of municipal autonomy, and we are also very much in favour of the municipalities being able to carry out the tasks they have. So here we are dealing with 19 marine farms, which are owned by 5 companies, so we have some of these companies behind the sea farms, which are quite large and which, as a matter of fact, may well have installations that are located in several municipalities. We may have to deal with companies which may buy feed for several different marine farms at the same time and which will then have to, what should be said, comply with the authorisation granted to operate marine farms. Of course, it is reasonable that you have control over what you feed, how much you feed, how many fish are in the cages, and what you reap when you slaughter the fish and how much medicine you use along the way. There I think it is understandable that we should respond to this when, for example, we do not want to do so. Hedensted Municipality says that they would rather not have the task of supervising the marine farms located in their area. So I think it's natural to take this assignment from the municipalities and transfer it to the state. It is not because we think so in all cases, but in this case we think it is a good solution. Then it is not because the state is flawless, because it has to be said that these habitat assessments should have been carried out many years ago. A habitats directive has been implemented, but it has not been ensured that it had an effect in Danish reality. It's actually pretty embarrassing. It is of course so important that the habitat assessments are made so that we can find out how many of these illegal marine farms can be legalised and how many are legalized in the way that they are closed down. When I first came across that word legalization, I thought: You shouldn't just legalize all sorts of illegal things. But legalisation may also be to stop an illegality, and I am glad that you can also have that interpretation of the text. So we're about to do these habitat assessments, and I'm very excited about whether the Minister for the Environment has a timetable that holds. It has previously been outlined that these habitat assessments should be completed by March next year. I have also noted that some people have been out to say that it could be difficult to find companies that could carry out these habitat assessments, because the same companies have had tasks with some of the companies that operate marine farms. I very much hope that the Minister has found a solution to this, so that the timetable is kept, so that we have some sharp conclusions before the owners of the seafarms have to decide whether they will put fish in the cages next spring. That is why it is important to keep the timetable, so that we really have the fully completed habitat assessments in March next year, so that we can see what it is that should not continue with illegal practices. So that is the important thing in this matter, and we will, of course, monitor from the Enhedslisten whether the state is fulfilling its obligations and we will come to the conclusion that the habitats directive is also being complied with in Denmark, so that there is no marine farming which has a negative effect on Natura 2000 sites at sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152543	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152553	Thank you. This draft law, as several rapporteurs have said, is made up of two parts. One is the harmonisation of EU legislation, where we have received a letter of formal notice, and the other is the transfer of vvm competence from municipality to state. I would like to call on the Minister to divide the legislative proposal into two parts, so that parties that can support one part and not the other part can say yes to the part that they can support. Of course, we in the Conservatives can support harmonisation of EU legislation, especially here, where it escapes with the practice that we already have in Denmark. As far as the second part is concerned, we are deeply concerned, starting with the Conservative People's Party, about maintaining local self-government. After all, the municipal reform was carried out in 2003, where we made larger and stronger municipalities with more opportunities to carry out more and heavier tasks, but in this case, where it is a matter of moving the vvm competence in a very specific area, where the competences are distributed among many bodies and therefore a local competence cannot be built up sufficiently, we think it makes sense to look at moving the vvm competence to the state from the municipality to Slagelse on top of that. And in those words I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152726	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152734	Thank you for the floor. The draft law amends the law on the environmental assessment of plans and programmes and of concrete projects and amendments to the law on livestock farming and the use of fertilisers, etc. The draft law provides for clarification of a number of provisions of the law. The clarifications relate to a more detailed implementation of the VVM Directive, so that the wordings which have so far been explained and described in the draft law's comments are now reflected in the provisions themselves. The changes are therefore not important in relation to the rights and duties of those involved, and New Citizens can support this part of the bill. However, the draft law also contains another part, namely that the competence of the VVM authority for coastal sea farms is transferred from the municipalities to the state. It appears from the consultations that the Ministry of the Environment and Food cannot refer to inadequate supervision in any municipalities and that, according to the Marine Survey, there were no indications that municipal supervision did not work. Furthermore, it appears that the State's case of location permits and environmental authorisations for new aquaculture has been deficient and prolonged. New citizens therefore believe that the competence of the VVM authority for coastal sea farms should remain with the municipalities, and we will therefore support the proposal by the rapporteur and several other rapporteurs that the bill should be divided into two parts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152901	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and this is Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152910	Thank you. We are in line with other bourgeois parties calling for a division of the bill, because we would like to vote in favour of the part that is about bringing the rules into line with practice, also according to EU harmonisation, while, on the other hand, we do not think that the government has lifted the burden of proof that the municipalities are not performing the vvm task well enough and that the state will be able to do better. And that is why we are not prepared to transfer that competence from the municipalities to the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152946	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. All the rapporteurs from the parties have spoken, and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022152954	Thank you. The government is putting forward the proposal in order to meet a letter of formal notice from the Commission, in which the Commission has called for a more directive-by-law implementation. The main aim of the draft law is therefore to clarify and adjust the wordings of the Environmental Assessment Act and the Farming Act. The clarifications relate to a more textual implementation of the VVM Directive, so that the wordings which have so far been explained and described in the draft law's comments are now reflected in the provisions themselves. This also means that the changes are not relevant to the rights and obligations of the applicants, authorities and stakeholders involved and to the public. As the current legal situation continues with the abovementioned amendments, the changes are not linked to administrative or economic consequences. The VVM Directive has been implemented independently in livestock regulation in relation to concrete projects on intensive livestock farming. The implementation was not affected in the European Commission's letter of formal notice, but the government, whatever this may be, has also chosen to clarify the implementation of the VVM Directive in the livestock legislation. This ensures a more textual implementation of the vvm directive in line with the Commission's comments and also ensures that livestock regulation continues to reflect the understanding and interpretation of the vvm directive resulting from the Environmental Assessment Act. The changes in the livestock law generally include the introduction of a definition of the public. The framework for extending the deadline for taking a screening decision is clarified, rules on public involvement and advertising in vvm-mandatory projects are repealed and transferred to the livestock approval notice. In this way, the bulk of the rules implementing the VVM directive are brought together in the livestock approval notice • yes, you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. But it will ensure a more coherent regulatory framework. The law's authorisation provision is specified in order to explicitly include the involvement of the authorities concerned and advertising. The changes do not alter the current legal situation and therefore do not have any consequences for the profession or the municipalities. It is important to me and to the government that our rules ensure compliance with EU law and our obligations as an EU Member State, and we now ensure that with this bill. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January next year. However, what has given rise to debate in this Chamber is that the draft law also means that the competence of the competent authority of the competent authorities of the Member States for marine farming, which is situated more than one nautical mile from the coast, i.e. coastal sea farms, is transferred from the municipalities to the state. This brings together the competence of the VVM authority for all marine farms in the state. The proposal is part of the action plan for clean-up in the marine sector, which was the subject of the debate, I think it is a good and constructive discussion after the launch on 5 June earlier this year, and I would also like to thank both the Enhedslisten, SF, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party for supporting it. The action plan is intended to strengthen the management of marine farming and to follow up on the status and thorough review of the marine farming area which was completed in December last year. The thorough review revealed a number of challenges with the environmental management of marine farms. Among the challenges was the shared authority competence for the 19 marine farms between the Danish EPA and 7 municipalities. It was also pointed out that environmental monitoring could be improved by, inter alia: to provide more clarity and accessibility in operating records and the underlying documentation. In addition, the review showed a need for more clear reporting requirements and a partially outdated guidance material. Then it was also pointed out that the same information was reported unintentionally to different reporting systems in the field of the Ministry of the Environment and Food and that the reporting could be digitised with benefit. The detailed review also found that the monitoring of marine farms differs from other types of environmental monitoring. It is a particular challenge that emissions cannot be measured directly. Instead, they shall be calculated on the basis of input and output knowledge in relation to production. The conclusions resulting from the thorough examination must be taken seriously. Marine farming has not been well enough under control for a long time. I think everyone who followed the debate, at least from the opposition period with the previous government, will agree with that. That is why it is also time for us to clean up and ensure effective supervision of marine farms. We also owe this to our aquatic environment, which is under pressure, and here we have a sector where fish are raised in nets cages at sea and substances are discharged directly into the aquatic environment without any treatment. It is therefore necessary to have an efficient and environmentally strong environmental monitoring system, and in relation to the debate that was about Slagelse and where the Environmental Protection Agency was to be located, I can only say for the sake of good order that we are talking about 0.1 to 0.2 years' work and that it is precisely located in Slagelse, in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency there, but also in Aarhus. In June, I presented a plan of action for the clean-up of the aquaculture sector, which will provide a clear and firm framework for the environmental requirements to be met by aquaculture. We must be a green pioneering country, including in fish farming. The action plan contains a number of concrete initiatives aimed at tightening up marine farming and introducing more direct and effective environmental monitoring. Among other things: more precise requirements for the reporting of marine farms to the competent authorities. This is true, for example. the nitrogen and phosphorus content of the feed used, the determination of deduced fish and the amount of biocides in the anti-colorants used, i.e. means of impregnation of nets in order to avoid the inflation of algae. It must also be ensured that the authorities can carry out effective monitoring of the reports. It is therefore necessary to introduce precise formal requirements for the design and maintenance of their operating record, including how the contents of the operating record are to be attached to documentation of the most central information. There will also be a closer look at the possibility of imposing a requirement that feed companies' sales to the sea farms be reported to the authorities. Those initiatives must help to meet the primary challenge of controlling marine production, i.e. that it is not possible to carry out sampling and measurement of actual discharges from marine farming. Other initiatives include updating guidelines and regulatory bases and establishing a single reporting system. And, of course, there is the initiative to which the draft law refers, namely the pooling of environmental authority and supervisory powers. The authority for the 19 existing aquaculture farms is now divided between the Danish EPA and 7 municipalities. This means that knowledge about the environmental aspects of the industry is spread. It is a very small sector and it does not make sense that the supervision of 19 marine farms is spread out to 8 different authorities, each of which has to have experts in this area. Here we can use our powers better. In addition, I also think that it should be taken seriously when the mayor of Hedensted has repeatedly expressed the wish that the state should take over the task. Hedensted Municipality is the relevant environmental authority for 5 out of 19 marine farms today. So for some municipalities it is a big and demanding task. The bill should also be seen in the context of a future amendment to the approval notice, which transfers the environmental approval and supervision competence to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. The two regulatory changes take account of the need to gather and strengthen environmental knowledge about marine farms, as the Danish Environmental Protection Agency also acquires authority over all marine farms. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency already has authority responsibility for location permits for marine farms, and in the future the Danish Environmental Protection Agency must also deal with location permits and environmental authorisations, including vvm, for marine farms and supervise marine farms. The bill clearly provides improved opportunities to coordinate work on the issue of location permits and environmental approvals. This would be beneficial, partly because the permits are interdependent, i.e. a sea-farming company requires both permits and partly because both permits require habitat assessment. It is therefore my clear expectation that the draft law will ensure synergy and efficiency. With the pooling of authority, we ensure a strong authority in environmental terms with a thorough knowledge of the sector and can therefore also exercise better and more effective supervision. In this way, the bill will benefit both the environment and the industry. Finally, it is also important for me to emphasise that the draft law is an important milestone in the task of cleaning up the aquaculture sector and also in strengthening the management of marine farms. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January next year. So in those words, I would like to make a good deal of further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022153859	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022153904	Thank you, Minister, for your comments. The work is 0.1-0.2 years old, and some of it has to be in Aarhus, so what with more activity in Slagelse is perhaps to be overlooked. Anyway, out on Sjælland, we're polite, so we're gonna go with what we can get. Having said that, it is the more task-taking, one can say, as we have been sceptical about, and it is not, of course, because one can say that it radiates out of the central authority that it has been handled. As the Minister himself says, there must be tidying up, yes, but the challenge has just been in the central authority in relation to, for example, location permits, for example, updating feed reports, etc. etc. It's just to nuance the picture that you're now cleaning up and then moving it in where the problem has actually been with some of this. Having said that, I would just like to ask what we were proposing, which I understand several of my fellow citizens agree with, i.e. whether we can divide the bill into two. Because we would very much like to support the first part, i.e. the European Union, but, as you know, we are against the political agreement that has to do with the second part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154009	I do not think we will agree on the whole supervisory part, that is that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency should have been worse than the municipalities, but what I am aware of is that one municipality has expressed the opinion that I have also met with the mayor of Hedensted, who has expressed the wish that the state should take over. I think that is worth listening to, also because we have seen that there have been so many problems in precisely keeping track of the basis for supervision to be in place. That is why I believe that this is a good solution, not only for those of us who have wanted political control in this area, but also for the industry. In relation to the second part, the division of the bill, it is quite fair that someone has a different political attitude and that there may be some parts that you want to support, and others do not, and here it is basically in different things, but we thought it was smart because it was about the same legislation. That is why I certainly do not want to stand in the way of dividing it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154106	There was no other comment, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154153	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154201	Thank you for that, President. Denmark is a high-tech country and we rely on our digital infrastructure, and this requires that we keep up with technological developments and ensure that our legislation reflects it. The bill we are discussing today is the execution of parts of a telecommunications directive from December 2018. This involves the creation of a European code of electronic communications. It will be a modernisation of our telecommunications legislation, which will contribute to more competition in the telecommunications market, increase the creation of new and modern infrastructure and strengthen investment incentives that will allow better coverage throughout Denmark. In concrete terms, the draft law contains four points which deal with inter alia: the stimulation of investment incentives, which I mentioned just now, harmonised management of spectrum permits and stronger consumer protection. Finally, the bill promotes the roll-out of digital infrastructure. In addition, the draft law also involves an amendment to existing legislation, which does not represent a directive implementation. This applies to clarification of Section 13 of the Telecommunications Act in order to clarify the obligations of telecommunications providers in connection with the provision of information and access to electronic communications services to help the police. The rules that have previously been unclear and the purpose of the clarification is to provide a clearly defined legal basis for the police to obtain preliminary information enabling a link to be established between natural persons and communication units. The draft law has been drawn up in accordance with the broad telecommunications agreement of May 2018 and supports the central principles of the conciliation on market-based roll-out and technology neutrality. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154348	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154351	Thank you. Two weeks ago, there was a new EU decision stating that the general and undifferentiated Danish logging rules were still in breach of EU law. I understand, of course, that at the time the draft law was tabled, it has not been possible to take account of and observe it. However, does the rapporteur not think that it is just a post office too early to amend section 13 of the Telecommunications Act so that the police can catch up with IMEI numbers without a court order? This is only something which the telecommunications companies are obliged to retain as a result of the current logging rules, which, on the basis of the new EU decision, can be called into question as to whether or not it is permitted at all to collect logging in this way. Wouldn't you think twice about changing section 13 of the Telecommunications Act, as it has been proposed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154453	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal that has been made here and supports the fact that, of course, we are implementing the EU directive now coming from the European Union for our common good. Nor is there any doubt that we are constructively involved in the work of the committee. I therefore think that we are going to look at it more specifically in relation to how we cut the overall legislative proposal so that it fits in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154517	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154518	Now I did not ask whether the Socialists support the bill. I heard that before. What I am asking is what the rapporteur thinks about the new EU decision that has been made. It casts doubt on the way Denmark generally and undifferentiatedly collects and collects logging data. Is it completely irrelevant for this, or should one wait a second to allow the police to obtain this information without a court order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154551	Thank you. There is no doubt that when we enter into committee cooperation later, we will of course look at whether there are any decisions from the European Union that are contrary to this bill. And, of course, we are looking at how best to adapt the legislation so that it does not, of course, conflict with the EU directives and decisions that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022154621	Thank you for the floor. This is a very comprehensive legislative proposal that we have before us today. In our view, this is also a very fine legislative proposal. I think it is such a day as today that it is appropriate to send thanks to the staff who have done a very, very large and thorough job with this legislation. I think it is very sensible that we should also rethink the implementation of the EU Telecommunications Directive, with the updating and improvement of legislation in the telecommunications sector as a whole. I will not repeat all the areas we are getting improved and updated in this round, but I would just like to highlight some of the elements. Overall, we think that the draft law well supports the core principles of the 2018 teleconciliation, as Mr. Kasper Roug also mentioned about market-based roll-out and technology neutrality, focus on creating good framework conditions in the telecommunications sector and the ambition that Denmark should be the leader in the roll-out of 5G. The proposal will create greater competition and greater predictability and regulation so that modern communications networks and services can be disseminated in Denmark. Furthermore, the aim is to achieve more harmonised management of radio frequencies and a greater degree of predictability in relation to the allocation of spectrum permits, so that we have better incentives to invest in digital infrastructure. The draft law also provides stronger consumer protection, which ensures transparency and supports citizens' freedom of choice. All in all, this means that the citizens of Denmark will experience better telecommunications coverage, faster speed and better prices, because the framework conditions for the telecommunications industry will improve. However, there are also some things that we would like to see clarified and improved during the committee procedure. In some areas, the bill goes further than the directive and will result in Danish singleness in the EU. This concerns machine to machine, m2m regulation, which concerns the many new devices that will be digital in the future. The consultation answers express concern that this regulation can contribute to creating unequal conditions of competition between EU countries, and the industry would therefore like to await the common EU legislation in the area under way. It is not because we disagree with the objective of the legislation being proposed, but we would just like to have a discussion about whether the benefits of getting there first match the cost of perhaps having to change things when EU regulation comes. The same applies to the proposed rule that it should be possible to send a text message to 112. We think this is a good idea too, but there are also some problems, because we are getting ahead of a European legislation that is on the way. The industry points out among other things: to some technical challenges in relation to foreign citizens coming to Denmark. How to handle their text messages etc.? In addition, the industry has a position that there is a high cost to solving this new task for the state. It is not really clear from the draft law exactly how much the Ministry thinks it is imposing on the industry. We would like that to be clarified in the context of the committee's work, and we would also like to have a debate on whether it is not also reasonable that we should pay for the music we order. There is also criticism in the hearings that the proposal for a telelaw states that the police provide access to the logging of data relating to IMEI data. It is a provision which, in the opinion of the industry, is properly included in the Code of Procedure. We would like to ask the reasons for placing this in the telecommunications legislation instead of in the procedural law. In addition, of course, we would also like to ask how this is related to the judgment that has just been handed down in the European Union. It is not, of course, the same as saying here that we may not be able to vote in favour. But there are at least some things that we need to ask some questions about. Finally, we do not think that we are in line with the ambition of the teleconciliation to find a transparent and uniform model for determining mast bearing. It is a problem that is a big barrier to us getting proper mobile coverage in Denmark. It is a step forward that the Minister is given the power to lay down rules if a sensible practice cannot be established by voluntary means. However, the Ministry's comments on the hearings indicate that uniform rules are expected to be established by the Minister at the earliest if a voluntary solution cannot be found when a new property assessment system is fully implemented and in use. We do not think that is good enough, because then it can have long prospects before we get some rules here that can ensure that we get a proper roll-out in Denmark. We would like to see some better proposals for that. Finally, this draft law does not solve the problem that, in areas where we impose cover requirements, in several cases it has not been possible for companies to set up masters. This is an unsustainable situation both for companies and for citizens. This is an issue to which we hope we will also be able to find a solution during the committee procedure. Finally, it should be pointed out that this draft law is being finalised so late that in some cases the companies will have such a short period of time that there are a number of requirements which it will simply be impossible to meet for them before the law comes into force. We also need to look at how to solve it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155142	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155153	Thank you, President. Denmark is a wonderful country where we are usually at the forefront of technological development. We develop and lead technologies, high-tech and health products, and there is hardly an area where Denmark is not the world champion. And yet, when you drive around the country, you can risk being interrupted so many times on your phone, even close to big cities, that you would think you were in a developing country. It can be a cavalcade of different networks and companies you get on your phone if you stray up the north or east coast and are too close to Sweden. The same applies when you drive around in the wilderness, as Jutland must be, yes, then you can be thrown by the network countless times. We are trying to make that right with this bill by making sure that our phone technology is not just updated to European standards, but is even ahead, and we are many of us living in the Outskirtsdanmark, which can be Charlottenlund and Gentofte, who are really, really happy about it. We have great hopes of this and have great expectations that the Minister's bill here will lift Denmark into the superliga in the telephone area as we are on animal products, as we are on health products, as we are on wind turbines and on so many other things. The Danes deserve this, it deserves Europeans, and we hope the Minister will be able to deliver it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155343	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Ruben Kidde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155352	Thank you, President. On the whole, the Radical Left can support the legislative proposal insofar as the part dealing with directive implementation is concerned. The draft law is primarily of a technical nature and the players in the field are generally favourable. Now we can see whether there is a need to make some adjustments in committee. However, there is an important focus, specifically on the proposed section 13, which both the IT policy association, PROSA and the telecommunications industry are highly critical of in their consultation response. The telecommunications industry has among other things: In the opinion of the telecommunications industry, the draft amendment to Section 13 of the Telecommunications Act and the related draft legislative notes are considered inappropriate and the draft law does not provide the clear legal basis for access by the police to IMEI data without the court's approval. They also call for the new rule on the provision of IMEI data to be placed under Chapter 71 of the Code of Procedure and not under the Telecommunications Act, since they consider IMEI data to be logging data, i.e. data which telecommunications companies record solely as a result of the requirement to do so in the logging rules. This section specifically on section 13, on the basis of the above remarks, I would like to propose that this draft law be completely removed from the scope of this law, and instead of being dealt with under the auspices of the Code of Procedure, which is set out in the legislative programme in February. Alternatively, the bill could be split up, and I have had a dialogue with the Minister about that. However, there is no doubt that IMEI data are important investigative tools, but in the opinion of the Radical Left, this should mean that a court order should be issued, just as it applies to all other investigative tools, which, of course, fits in well with the fact that it is then dealt with in the Code of Procedure. So, with the comments that are generally positive about the directive, but very, very critical of exactly paragraph 13, we look forward to the further examination of the legislative proposal by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155625	Thank you. The draft law supports consumer rights in the future telecommunications market, while contributing to more competition in the telecommunications market. This benefits the spread of modern communications networks and services throughout Denmark, which is of course pleasing to consumers and businesses. In the SF we are on the side of consumers when it comes to telecommunications legislation. However, in the SF we have a major problem with section 13 and therefore, in line with the Radical Left, believe that the proposal should be split up, because it is quite crucial for SF's support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155708	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is not Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, but welcome to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022155720	Thank you. Eva Flyvholm I could make it anyway. This bill, L 42, is really a real mop boy, you have to say, contains a lot of things in the telecommunications field. From Enhedslisten's side, we find it very problematic that a little too much has just crept into this bill. I find it deeply problematic that it lies here, because it provides an increased possibility of logging, even without a court order, as we see it, and that is really problematic in terms of legal certainty. That is why we, like Radicals and SF, want this part to be pulled out of the bill, because otherwise I also find it very difficult to see that we should be able to support this proposal. So I hope we can achieve that in the legislative process and I think it would be quite irresponsible to leave it here in this way. Then I would like to make a more general comment to the rest of the legislative proposal, which relates to the fact that this balance must be found in how much is market-driven and that, at the same time, we must also do what we can to ensure that we have proper Internet coverage throughout Denmark. We know that it is not always the best business case to get proper coverage rolled out in our rural areas, and that is one of the things that concerns me very much, i.e. how we get it. Therefore, I also think we need to have a discussion on some of the things that are being used here in the EU directive, i.e. whether it is not a little too narrow and inappropriate. For example: Paragraph 60 states, where it is very clearly specified, that public authorities such as states and municipalities are allowed to provide free internet only for maximum. The elimination half-life is approximately 1 hour. In Reykjavik, Iceland, which is not part of the European Union, it has been said: listen, we make Wi-Fi available to all citizens, tourists, etc., fine, it runs super well. It is a pity that we do not have the option of our municipalities, for example. You can choose to make these decisions about how best to do things and secure the coolest coverage for the citizens. So I think we should look at the possibilities of getting it softer, because it is simply not appropriate to have the best possible coverage for people that it is so bound. But I'm looking forward to the legal work, and I hope we can get this 13 out of here, because it doesn't belong here, and we're not going to agree on it with the logging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160024	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160036	Thank you for the floor. Amendment to the Telecommunications Act, the Radio Spectrum Act, the Mast Act, the Television Transmission Standard Act and the Plan Act • Yes, this bill contains some of each, and it is also on 510 pages. However, the text immediately draws attention to the fact that these are mainly technical changes. And I don't know what it's like with you guys, but at least it's something that always gets me a little extra into gear. Nevertheless, the short conclusion from this is that it is a good proposal, which also builds on the telecom conciliation from 2018 and ensures modernisation and more competition. Overall, this will hopefully mean increased investment desire and better coverage throughout Denmark, which is also mentioned by several others. I have a few points of attention that are escaping, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson's rapporteur's speech, and in particular the cost of texting 112 and changes to the rules on the provision of customer information by telecommunications companies to the police without a court order, the committee work must make us much wiser. And if we get this right, I also expect Conservatives to be able to vote in favour of the proposal, because digital infrastructure is crucial for continued development and green growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160152	Sir. Kristian Hegaard for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160154	Thank you. Now I know that the Conservative People's Party is a law and order party that is in favour of law being law and justice being right and that, of course, you have to abide by the law, otherwise someone will come after you. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with whether, now that two weeks ago there was an EU decision on logging and an undifferentiated general collection of logging, which this bill is also about, in section 13 of the Telecommunications Act, we should just wait a little while to make that change and look at it a little later, so we are sure that with this bill we are also complying with law and order, which I know the Conservatives are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160238	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160239	Thank you very much for the question. That gives me an opportunity to elaborate on it. I fully agree that we need to sort this out in the legislative work that is coming up. I have no doubt that there are a great many parties, including ourselves, who have several questions on that particular point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160253	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160255	Then I should like to ask whether the Conservative People's Party believes that it is a good legal principle to obtain data on citizens who are on the lodge without obtaining a court order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160313	It is always a very good legal principle to ensure that there are no authorisations. I would also like to say to the rapporteur that there can be a great many aspects to this issue, which is why I look forward to further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160328	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160348	Thank you so much. I am here instead of Peter Seier Christensen, who is prevented, so you must bear with me if there are subsequent questions. This bill implements parts of an EU directive establishing a European Code of Electronic Communications. The draft law contains four main points: stimulating investment incentives for companies in a digital infrastructure through increased competition and greater predictability in regulation; more harmonised management of radio frequencies and greater predictability in relation to the allocation of spectrum permits so as to increase incentives to invest in digital infrastructure; stronger consumer protection that ensures transparency and support for consumer choice; and promoting the roll-out of digital infrastructure, including easier access to wireless access points. After all, the draft law also amends the rules on the provision by telecommunications companies of basic information on end-users' access to communications networks to the police without a court order. The draft law is considered to have overall positive economic consequences for business by increasing competition and predictability in regulation, by harmonising the management of radio frequencies and by introducing easier access to wireless access points with limited scope. In some areas, however, the proposal could lead to increased economic or administrative costs for individual enterprises. This bill is, of course, primarily of a technical nature, and it is therefore also my expectation that New Citizens will be able to support the bill, but it is extremely comprehensive and very complex, and that is why I would like to express on behalf of New Citizens that we would like to follow the committee's work on this bill before we take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160553	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160601	Thank you. It is a comprehensive legislative proposal and I can say that the Liberal Alliance supports most of it. We are skeptical of section 13 about logging and need to dive further into it. It may well be that we find it so problematic that we have to vote against the whole bill, but it may also be that the Minister could be open to separating it from what we see. As I said, it is an excellent draft law with a single crunch that can make us vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160638	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs, but then it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022160649	Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments, which were, of course, largely positive. There was even a rapporteur who praised the work of the office for its thorough work, and I would like to vote in favour of that. Not only that it is thorough and that it will lead to better regulation in Denmark, I have also noticed a connection between the longer a bill is, the shorter the speakers to the bill. Now I do not know whether it is a causal relationship or whether it is a mere coincidence here for those who had to sit and read this debate in 100 years' time and do not understand the glimpse in the eye of writing, I must say that it was an attempt at a joke that did not hit so well down here, I can say, but there was then a single smile. A strong digital infrastructure does so, among other things. the ability to manage society's resources more intelligently and is thus an essential element, not least in the green transition. With this very large legislative proposal, we are now radically modernising the whole telecommunications legislation in Denmark. The draft law also implements parts of an EU directive on the establishment of a European code of electronic communications. The bill goes across four laws in my own area as well as the Planning Act in the field of the Minister of Industry. It is complex and I shall therefore confine myself here to highlighting four key points. Firstly, the draft law stimulates investment incentives for companies for digital infrastructure, provides increased competition and greater predictability in regulation. It happens, among other things. by including investment considerations in the Telecommunications Act as one of the main reasons for regulatory action by the authorities. This means that the Danish Business Authority and the Danish Energy Agency should consider how the regulation affects the investment desire in any regulatory action under the Tele Law. Secondly, a minimum period of 20 years is introduced for the authorisation of frequencies given in frequency auctions, including e.g.: 5G frequencies. Before, the starting point was 15 years. This will make it more attractive for companies to invest in the expansion of mobile networks. Thirdly, the bill strengthens consumers. Specifically, we want to promote that it should be as simple to change the Internet service provider as it is to change the mobile company. Fourthly, the draft law must promote the roll-out of, for example. 5G, by making it easier, among other things. to set up limited range antennas. Already today, we see that investments from the telecommunications sector are at an historically high level and there is a very high rate of market roll-out of both mobile and broadband infrastructure. That is very positive. With the bill here, we further lubricate the engine and provide a more flexible, clearer and more transparent framework for the telecommunications industry. I have a clear expectation that this will help to ensure that the high level of private investment will continue in the years to come. Let me conclude by saying that we have a clear principle in the telecommunications conciliation that the roll-out of telecommunications infrastructure must take place largely through the roll-out of the market. It places great demands on us in the Folketing to be able to create good framework conditions and ensure that all parts of the country have access to good coverage and the opportunity to benefit from technological development. In connection with the comments here today and also previous contact with several of you, I have noted that amendments to section 13 have been proposed, either to divide the bill into two, or to delete the whole part. I will look into that and my ministry would very much like to help in making amendments of one nature or another in this respect, so let us take a closer look at it in the context of your committee procedure and the dialogue we have with the Ministry. In those words, I would like to thank and wish the House every success in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161123	Thank you. We just have a few questions before then. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161127	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's positive statement to look at whether this amendment to section 13 of the Telecommunications Act should be withdrawn altogether; it was a positive indication that the Minister will at least look at it. And in this context, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister believes that it is a fundamental principle of law to allow the police to obtain information which is only stored by the telecommunications companies because they are obliged to do so under the legislation on logging and the kind of thing in which, without a court order, there are no requirements for suspects, criminal claims, etc. Does the Minister consider that it is a basic good principle of law that has been laid down here in Section 13 of the Telecommunications Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161220	I am of course in favour of the proposal as it stands here, but I also indicate that I have smelled the smell in the bakery, or whatever that is called, and listened to your good arguments. So now we are discussing whether we can meet some of the challenges that might lie in the proposal as it stands. I will also have the opportunity to discuss it a little more in depth with my colleague, the Minister of Justice, before going too far into the details about it, but take both my speech and this answer as an expression of my listening to the concerns which, among other things, I have listened to. The rapporteur has highlighted this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161301	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161302	Thank you. And thank you very much for your kind approach; I think we can get a fruitful continuing dialogue out of that. In this context, I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that, for example, the EU decision taken two weeks ago on logging may also have an impact on the further discussions that need to be in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161325	I have not had the opportunity to study that judgment in detail. In fact, I haven't had the opportunity to study it at all, but I know there are good people in my ministry who have, so of course I will consult with them, and that will, of course, be part of the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161340	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161343	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he could not agree to a slightly more robust solution than this: the Minister is expected to at the earliest be involved in laying down these rules; he will be empowered to find uniform and transparent rules for the rental of land to masters if no solution can be found by volunteering when a new property system is fully implemented and in use. Could the Minister be open for us to find a wording which would mean that we might not be quite as long in the future before we resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161422-2	As a starting point, the proposal is made because we consider that it is the most rational and relevant way of doing so. But it is clear that in the spirit that the question is also being asked, I would also like to say that I would like to take part in the debate. First of all, let us clarify our reasons for putting forward the proposal as it is, I will ensure that the rapporteur gets that, and if there is still disagreement, let us have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161455	Then I would also like to follow up on the issue in relation to the fact that we have set cover requirements in some areas where, after years, we have not managed to get permission to put up a mast. After all, this puts the telecommunications companies in a situation where they are at risk of being fined, and that also puts citizens in an unpleasant situation. So it is also just to get the Minister's opinion on whether the Minister thinks that we could have a dialogue on how we might solve this Gordian knot, because it is a really unfortunate situation that is out there, and it is also a situation that we risk running into with the new coverage requirements we put in the context of the new auction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161526-2	Yes, I can certainly give a commitment to dialogue on this. I fully share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161532	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161552	The debate is open. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161616	Thank you. With L 44, we are taking an important step towards a green electricity supply as well as the objective of a climate-neutral society. The bill allows us to move forward with the largest offshore wind farm in Denmark, Thor, which will be ready in the mid 2020s and supply power to 800,000 households. The establishment of Thor Havvindmøllepark will create green jobs and together with the future energy islands and the offshore wind farm at Hesseløø will be part of an accelerated and decisive expansion of energy with offshore winds. The Social Democratic Party, together with the remaining parties in the energy chain, has agreed on a model of support to provide support through a differential contract, including: The Climate Council has also recommended. We believe in this as a model of supply which can be a good stepping stone to a near future with unsupported sea winds. Fortunately, technological developments have led to a longer lifespan in offshore wind farms, which is why it is also sensible that the bill also increases the duration of operating permits for offshore wind farms, so that the Danes can enjoy for many years the turbines we are setting up today and in the years to come. In addition, the green pool rates will be raised with the draft law as a result of the Energy and Industry Climate Agreement of June 2020. This helps to ensure that municipalities taking responsibility for the expansion of renewable energy and citizens living close to installations are compensated. Hopefully, funding from the green pool will help secure exciting initiatives and investments that create value in local communities and that can help to secure popular support for the green transition. So all in all, it is a good bill for the green transition, which the Social Democrats support, and we look forward to the further consideration of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161756	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022161811	Thank you. Today we will be discussing a legislative proposal which translates two agreements: the supply of Thor Havvindmøllepark and the increase in the amount of the green pool scheme. The 2018 Energy Agreement decided that three offshore wind farms, each with a capacity of 800 MW, should be developed up to 2030. We are proud that we must now begin to implement the major steps we took with the energy agreement and which the Left helped to ensure we got through when we sat in government offices. The conciliation circle behind the energy agreement has agreed that the first of the three offshore wind farms will be located in the North Sea off Nissum Fjord at least 20 km out at sea. The new offshore wind farm will be named Thor after Thorsminde, which is the nearest country. Thor Havvindmøllepark will contribute significantly to the green transition in Denmark. It will supply electricity to about 800,000 households. The draft law provides for the possibility of paying aid and charging for electricity produced at Thor Havvindmøllepark. The aid model grants aid through a so-called differential contract whereby the State guarantees a stable settlement price for the electricity generated by the offshore wind farm. The winner of Thor Havvindmøllepark will be compensated if the electricity price falls to less than the average of the previous year. If the price gets higher, the winner has to pay to the state in return. Another element of the bill is that the operating licence for offshore wind farms will be increased from the current 25-30 years to meet the longer lifespan of new mills. This is also a welcome development. Denmark's ambitious expansion of offshore wind energy, which begins with Thor Havvindmøllepark, is an important step in the green transition. The increased use of offshore winds for energy production will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as energy production from the use of offshore winds will displace fossil energies such as natural gas, coal and oil. The bill will then help to reduce CO2 The construction of Thor Havvindmøllepark will together contribute a reduction of 1.8 million. t CO 2 In the energy conciliation circle, an agreement was reached in November 2019 to create a green pool to pay an amount per year for the construction of renewable energy plants. established megawatts for a pool in the municipality in question, where the installation is set up. The green pool scheme is administered by the municipalities, which also call for an application for the allocation of funds through advertising. The funds could be used for municipal purposes, and the municipalities have the possibility of prioritising the allocation of funds to projects near neighbours for the RE projects as well as for green actions. The purpose of this green pool scheme is to hope that it will contribute to wider local and local support in the construction of renewable energy installations. It is expected that the increase in the one-off green pool payment in the deployment of VE installations will help to ensure wider local and local support. Such support is expected to help ensure that several local plans are approved for the construction of VE plants in the municipalities and that more mills can be built in Denmark. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162114	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162121	Thank you, President. I have had the privilege of being the climate and energy rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at a distance of 10 years, in other words, in the sense that when I was elected to the Danish Parliament back for the first time in 2005, I took up my duties, after which in 2009 I left Parliament to be in some sort of voluntary exile in the European Parliament for 10 years of last year to return to becoming climate and energy rapporteur again. Where, then, you may be looking at things blindly, I have had the privilege of seeing them 10 years away, and it is a completely different world to return to. Prices of renewable energy produced on solar cells and wind turbines etc. is completely different from the 10 years away. The technology we are talking about today, with regard to heat pumps and with regard to electric cars, etc. is completely different, and that gives a rocky belief that if, on the one hand, we politicians keep us sufficiently far away for the market to act and develop, but, on the other hand, the present is enough to stimulate and finance development, yes, an exponential, almost explosive, development can actually bring us very, very far forward. This is, I must say, the happy history of Danish energy policy. Therefore, I can also say completely without blinking on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we are happy to have joined both the climate agreement and the partial agreements which today form the basis of Danish energy policy. Not that we, like another climate freak, cannot focus on anything other than climate policy.Such people are typically not very interesting to be with, just as it is interesting to be with such a football freak who talks about nothing other than the latest football result.No, the holistic image of Danish politics, where you can just link climate policy, energy policy, security policy, innovation etc., is the one that contains the perspective. It's with the approach we go in, both in this law and in all the other agreements we make with the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. We are pleased today to take, I do not know whether we can talk about a spade spot when it is going on at sea, but at least what is corresponding to that, in relation to now having the largest offshore wind farm set up. We welcome this because it is a step towards the electrification that is needed in order to reduce the number of people who die from particle pollution every year and to gradually make ourselves independent of regimes, especially in Eastern Europe. At the moment, at least, we do not want to be dependent on the supply of gas and coal, but also, as such, so that in the long term, hopefully, we are the ones who are helping to break through the wall, so that we also find a competitive alternative to the regimes in the Middle East which supply oil and on which we are certainly not particularly happy to rely. We dream that Denmark can one day be a net exporter of technology, not only in relation to offshore wind turbines, but also in relation to the way we use the power. That, for example, we have to do something about it. in relation to what is called power-to-x, that is, a completely new way of using the power, can develop alternatives and hopefully in the long term also cheaper energy sources in the transport sector for aircraft, for ferries, for cars etc. and in this way can outperform the Middle East, which unfortunately still has a dominant monopoly today when it comes to our security of supply of petrol and diesel, etc. That is the ambition, and it is with this approach that I, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, can happily and enthusiastically endorse this bill today. Because it has the fine balance where, on the one hand, we say yes, we want to invest, and we want to innovate, but where we also ensure that those in society are affected, for example. When very large wind turbines are set up, they are compensated. They are compensated, on the one hand, individually, so that if you live close to the windmills, you get compensation for the fall in the property price that you may experience, on the other hand, collectively, by obliging those who set up the windmills to spit money in the municipal treasury so that you can make new, good initiatives that compensate the people who are affected. We are also looking forward to seeing the windmill ceiling that we have negotiated as a real ceiling that reduces, halves, the number of wind turbines up to 2040, converted into law. All in all, this is a good day for Denmark. It is a good bill, and it enjoys the support of the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162624	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162633	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we can warmly support the draft law here, which is, of course, the result of two major political agreements from the past. This is perhaps something that goes a little unnoticed, but all the while we are negotiating transport and looking forward to looking at agriculture, perhaps CO 2 And there it is when we look at sea wind, which is one of our great efforts, happy that with a proposal like this we get on with the tender process for Thor Havvindmøllepark. It's really, really happy. In addition, it is expected that the second part of the bill, this green pool scheme, will help to ensure wider local and local support for the construction of VE projects. So basically, it is positive that we are now starting to adopt this bill, hopefully. And then it is clear that we must continue, continue, continue with the green transition, where we have a lot of big things ahead of us this autumn. However, in the case of L 44, the Radical Left is warmly supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162800	Thank you. The next is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022162810	Thank you. After all, the bill is a follow-up to the 2018 Energy Agreement and the June Climate Agreement, and both agreements are part of SF. What fills a great deal in the bill is that we get the legal basis for both creating the support model for Denmark's largest offshore wind farm, Thor, and at the same time, of course, that it can be charged for the flow. We have a common goal in the Folketing among very many parties that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 70%. in 2030, and part of the solution that is needed is a massive electrification of Denmark. There we need green power, which is why Thor Havvindmøllepark, which can contribute power to 800,000 Danish households, is an important contribution to the electrification. The aid model, which has been added here to Thor, is a differential contract which both has the scam that the state can make money on it, but also has a guarantee for the private windmill operator that if the price of settlement of the electricity falls too much, aid will be paid out. But there are ceilings on both sides, so it is neither endless payout nor endless deposit. We believe that this is a model that can continue to drive the positive developments that have taken place far along the way, and which was also highlighted by the DF rapporteur, namely that we will have support prices for sea winds down. In addition, there is an increase in the green pool, which is, of course, a very fine arrangement that we have re-established, namely that local communities, where wind turbines or solar cells are being set up nearby, get a pool of money, and in this way we stick to a rather fine principle that you live close to places where this important contribution to the Danish green conversion takes place, so you also get a little money for the local community. So it is very good that the green pool will be raised as a consequence of the climate agreement we concluded before the summer holidays. So overall, this bill is only good, and of course SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163038	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163046	The Enhedslist supports the bill, which is the implementation of agreements that we are in. What fills the most is the Thorhavevindmill offer. Denmark has learned over time how to keep supply and how not to do so. It was probably at Anholtmøllerne that one got the most expensive experience of how one didn't think it was exciting to participate in a process of trying to come up with a model where it could actually end up with the state earning money at Thorhavvnvindøllerparkerne, that with the development of electricity prices we can thus come in a situation where we have not given out the opportunity to earn money to others, but in this way have the possibility of money coming into the treasury. That is what we are facing. With the technological development that is underway, we come to the conclusion that it is the state that can profit from allowing wind turbines to be set up at sea, and Enhedslisten thinks it is good that we have come this far. This, of course, presents some new challenges, because there still has to be some state governance of it, as is the case on land. When we talk about offshore wind turbines, some people have an idea that we should have all the turbines out at sea, but with what is here, it has been outlined that there is a government cost of between 3.7 billion. kr. and 6.5 billion. kr. on it, and then we are faced with the fact that we actually have some landwind mill projects and some solar projects on land that are moving towards a support requirement of DKK 0, and where we are testing it in the technology-neutral tenders. Then there are other projects that run solo and where it can be that we can experience some coastal wind turbine projects without the need for subsidies. We find this extremely interesting in the Enhedslisten, and we think it is important that more ministers do not hinder the proper resolution of these projects. Of course, such projects also need a vvm approval, but we think that there are a number of projects that look promising, at Omø, at Bornholm, Aarhus and Copenhagen. In this bill, the green pool will be reinstated, and we are, in fact, very much in favour of it. Then it is just a little grotesque to experience, when you look at Copenhagen and HOFOR Wind, which is planning a large investment in coastal sea wind, that this project will be, as far as I can see from the consultation answers, covered by the green pool scheme, so that they have to deposit a substantial amount, so that the municipality can get some money in, which you can then make some investment in something good for. It may be reasonable if the coastal mills end up facing a municipality other than Copenhagen, but otherwise it seems a little like taking money from one pocket and putting into the other. But you have to think about what was before. There was, of course, a buying-in system whereby wind turbines had to offer a certain part of the project to others at a cost which meant that 20% of the project had to be sold. of the project was something that couldn't make money on, and one might get into a troublesome funding because there was a party that was outside. We are abolishing this now, and then we are introducing a system in which neighbours of wind turbines and solar cells receive a monthly or annual compensation, and this also applies to those neighbours who are poorly treated. In other words, we are moving from a situation in which the local population had a right to buy windmill shares in the past to the fact that it is all neighbours who are being compensated. We therefore have sympathy for the fact that it will apply to everyone. Overall, I believe that we have come up with something that is clearly a step forward. It will be very exciting to see when we keep this offer at Thor Havvindmølleparken, what the level of expenditure will be, and exciting to follow when the park gets up, if we get into a situation where the state is going to make money on the power generation out there. So it's an unqualified support for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163518	Thank you. The next one is sir. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163528	Thank you. It is not often that we stand here on the floor of the Parliament and find that a largely unanimous Parliament supports a bill in which we either earn 2.8 billion. kr. or has a cost of 6.5 billion. kr. That suggests a rather dedicated Parliament, and it is. We can hear that from the speeches. Marine wind turbine energy in Denmark has been through a terrific development. Today there are 14 established offshore wind farms with a capacity of 1.699 MW. With its 800 MW or, in fact, up to 1,000 MW, Thor Havvindmøllepark will contribute an increase of 50 per cent. To get a sense of Denmark's development as a wind turbine nation, Horns Rev, established in 2002, produces with its 80 turbines compared to 160 MW. It is therefore a five-fold increase in the capacity of Thor Havvindmøllepark. The background, as mentioned earlier, is an energy agreement from 2018, while the climate plan from 2020 also points to two more energy islands. But it's not enough to build lots of wind turbines and get a lot of electricity. We also need other solutions. We need power-to-x solutions so that we can store the electricity we are talking about and we need to be able to spread the electricity out into the country. We need an energy network that can support the development of Denmark as a wine-growing nation. And then we need to connect these different energy systems. It is not easy to use wine-making effectively, so we need the technologies in which we connect energy systems to be developed as well. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we have included sectoral coupling in our proposal for future research efforts. In fact, we think it is quite important. But all in all, today is a day of joy when we take the next step in expanding Denmark's capacity for renewable energy production, which is a step towards Denmark as a climate-neutral nation. For the Conservative People's Party, it is incredibly important that we continue the green development, and the new Thor offshore wind farm is a good step on the road. That is why the Conservative People's Party agrees with the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163816	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022163831	This bill deals with the supply of Thor Havvindmøllepark and an increase in the amount of the green pool scheme. The proposal also provides for the possibility of paying aid and charging for electricity, which will support the model for Thor Havvindmøllepark. The 2018 Energy Agreement provides for 3.7 billion. kr. to pay aid to Thor Havvindmøllepark. This implies significant uncertainty about the overall economic impact on the State, as the payment of the price surcharge or payment by the electricity producer depends on the long-term evolution of the market price of electricity and the amount of the winning offer. A significantly higher ceiling has therefore been set for the total expenditure of the State for the payment of aid amounting to 6.5 billion. kr. In New Citizens we do not believe that we should build more wind turbines and wind farms with public support. As it is now, wind turbines deliver what is equivalent to approximately half of Denmark's electricity supply, but this does not mean that the current covers half of the Danish electricity consumption. When it blows a lot, the wind turbines produce more power than we can use and therefore we export it to our neighbouring countries, often at a low price. When it blows too little, we don't have enough power and we have to import it. This creates an imbalance in our power supply, and it has been possible so far because we have been able to rely on importing power from our neighbouring countries, which use, among other things, energy. coal and nuclear energy. There are also examples of Danish windmill owners being paid to stop their windmills when it blows, simply to get rid of the unnecessary power. Therefore, we should not build more wind turbines until there is an opportunity to store the current or otherwise use the current in a sensible way. If the plants are built on purely commercial terms and investors bear the full risk, so that taxpayers do not have to have money out of their pocket, then of course the matter is different. New citizens cannot therefore support Bill No. L 44. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164038	Thank you. There are no questions, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164047	Thank you. A modern wealthy society requires a great deal of energy for heat and power, and so far, in most of our modern history, we have been dependent on burning fossil fuels or plant fuels when we have had to produce that energy. The happy thing has happened that we have been working on and developing ways to harvest energy from renewable sources for several years, which do not have a negative impression on our climate and our air. We have now reached the point where we have an opportunity to see on the horizon that we can establish, for example. wind farms at sea, which will make a profit and from which we can make a profit to the Treasury. This possibility exists here with Thor Havvindmøllepark, but we are still on a little uncertain ground and may also have a deficit for the state. But we support this bill because we think it is important to have a green conversion of our electricity production. This has many positive consequences, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party mentioned, both in relation to our dependence on Middle Eastern oil states, but also in relation to our air and climate. We hope that soon we will get to where the power from offshore winds can be created and produced without large subsidies from the state, and this offer of Thor Havvindmøllepark allows us to get there now. But we wait eagerly to see that, and if it cost the state a few dollars, it is also worth the crowns in our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164300	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, and then it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164311	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. Today, we are taking an important step towards a future where green electricity from offshore winds can be produced at market conditions without public support crowns. Much has happened in Denmark since we established the first offshore wind farm in the world in 1991. At that time many people thought it was too expensive, that it was a completely wrong way to go and that it never became competitive. Fortunately, it turned out to be wrong. But it turned out to be wrong because there were some of us in Denmark who chose to take the step that chose to create a market for technological development. The continued expansion of energy from offshore winds in Denmark is an essential element in ensuring Denmark's continued green transition and achieving Denmark's ambitious climate objectives. With the submission of the Bill here on Thor Havvindmøllepark, we deliver on the 2018 Energy Agreement decision to offer three offshore wind farms, of which Thor Havvindmøllepark will be the first. Thor Havvindmøllepark, together with the energy islands and the advanced Park 2, located at Hesselø, will be able to create local Danish jobs and both exploit and strengthen the unique competence that we have built up in Denmark. We're at the moment. in progress with more than a triple of Denmark's offshore wind turbine capacity by 2030. In November last year we agreed on a support model for Thor Havvindmøllepark following the Climate Council's recommendations. The new aid model grants aid through a differential contract whereby the State guarantees a stable settlement price for the electricity generated by the offshore wind farm. The State grants aid to the producer when the market price is below the bid price, while the producer pays back aid to the State when the market price is above the bid price. This provides investors with a high level of security for their investments and, at the same time, we expect that the State's costs of support will be allocated more appropriately. We have also agreed to extend the production period for the offshore wind farm from 25 to 30 years, with the possibility of extending the period for a further five years. In this way, we take account of the technological development of offshore wind turbines, which go towards a longer life span than hitherto. The bill also includes implementation of that part of the climate agreement from 22 June this year, when we decided to raise the setters' payment to the green pool from 88,000 DKK. for 125,000 kroner. per MWh. In November 2019, we made a decision on the RES schemes. It has been important for us to ensure broad support both in the local community and among the municipalities when new RES installations are set up around Denmark. Compared to the green pool, the planners pay the municipality where the plant is built. The funds can be widely used for municipal actions, but it is proposed that the funds be allocated to projects near local neighbours for the RE projects as well as for green actions. With this increase in the amount received by the municipalities through the green pool, we believe that we have hit a more appropriate level, taking into account both the municipalities that lay land for the plants, but also the operators of the plant. Let me conclude by thanking you for your interest in the draft law. I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164657	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164712	The debate is open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022164728	Thank you. Denmark is the best country in the world, and we are also one of the most secure countries in the world. Our security is guaranteed, among other things. That we have strong alliances with other and larger countries, among others. through cooperation and an active foreign policy. Historically and today, we are an integral part of the West's security policy alliance, and this helps to ensure our security, both in Denmark and abroad. Over the years, it has been crucial to secure us against attacks on Danes in the world, not least in the hot spots where we have participated in various operations. But it has also been crucial to secure us against attacks and terrorism here in the country of origin, to prevent Islamists, Nazis and other Isters from succeeding in carrying out their subversive attacks. This is where our intelligence agencies play a crucial role. The prerequisite for our intelligence agencies to operate and take care of us Danes is that they can just cooperate confidently and not least hidden and confidentially with our allies around the world. It is crucial that the framework of their work is in place when they operate within the framework established by us here in the Folketing, the legislature. That is why, of course, we must also take it seriously when the supervision we, as legislators, have set up to monitor the intelligence services expresses criticism. It is a criticism of, among other things. retention of information vis-à-vis supervision. It has to be verified, and that's what this bill is about. There will be a need for the Defence Intelligence Service to continue its work both now and in the future unabated. That is why we cannot have an investigation that is dragging on for years, both for the sake of the work of the service, but also, of course, for the sake of the employees concerned, whose staff conditions need to be clarified. At the same time, the study must be able to identify the essential criticisms made by the monitoring and the investigation must be carried out in a way that does not create insecurity or uncertainty about our continued cooperation with and commitment to the Western security alliances with which we are completely dependent on being able to cooperate. This means, for example, that confidential information is not disclosed or disseminated more than is necessary. Therefore, with this bill, a commission of inquiry is being set up, with the secretariat and assistance lawyers for the employees involved, etc. may conduct an investigation in confidence. The Commission shall examine the most central criticisms of the supervision, including the possible collection and transmission of data on Danish nationals, the orientation of changing defence ministers, questions as to whether the Defence Intelligence Service has withheld information and provided incorrect information for supervision, and the question of FE's possible processing of information about an official in the supervision. The Commission of Inquiry is set up by the Minister of Justice and is anchored here in the Folketing in the Committee on Intelligence. The Commission shall consist of three judges of the Left Court appointed on the recommendation of the President of the West Land Court. The proposal lays down rules concerning the duties of the Commission of Inquiry and the organization of the investigation, the obligation to provide information and witnesses, the legal status of the persons concerned and the obligation of professional secrecy, etc. The Commission will work on a confidential mandate and will be able to expand their field of investigation if they so wish, after approval by the Minister for Justice after consultation with the Minister for Defence and the Control Committee. The Commission will have access to all relevant material and be able to interrogate witnesses, etc., and the employees involved, whose circumstances may be the subject of the investigation, will have the right to a sitter. Although it is of course a matter of confidentiality, the Commission will publish the outcome of the assessment of responsibility of the staff who are exempt from duty, and the Commission will have to publish, as far as possible, an unclassified summary of its conclusions. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165110	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165114	Thank you. Now we also had a consultation on this matter earlier today, and there I could not get an answer from the Minister for Justice as to whether it would be examined whether the Defence Intelligence Service or former ministers had provided incorrect information to the Parliamentary Control Committee. After all, the rapporteur himself is on the Control Committee, and now I am not going to ask what is going on, because I know you are not getting an answer to that, but I would like to ask: does the rapporteur not think that it is a very good idea to check whether, in the past, incorrect information has simply been given to the parliamentary control committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165153	As I referred to, the Commission will deal with the most central points in the criticism of supervision, including the four points I have raised. Then, as I also said, if the Commission wishes to extend its field of investigation, it can request it and it can be approved by the Minister for Justice after consultation with the Minister for Defence and the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165208	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165210	Nevertheless, I would like to ask the rapporteur to consider whether it is not absolutely essential whether it is right or wrong information has been given to the Control Committee and, therefore, whether it is not a sensible idea to have it examined. Otherwise, we cannot be sure that in future we will have the right information in the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165232-2	In other words, the criticisms from the supervisory board are clear from the draft law. In fact, I think, at paragraph 2 at the outset, there is a review of the criticisms made by the supervisory body, and that is, of course, the subject of the investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165247	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165257	Thank you. Like the Socialist rapporteur, we in the Left share the view that we have a serious matter, which is not least about looking after Denmark, and there is a serious background to this bill that we are dealing with today, namely the critical report of the PET and FE inspectorate, which has reached the public, and the criticism that can be raised there. On the left side, I would like to say first of all that we are quite unhappy with the government's initial dilettant-like approach to this matter and, incidentally, also the press release and criticism that came from the supervisory board, and I would also like to name the Minister with whom we are dissatisfied, with whom we hold responsible for the fact that we have ended up where we have ended up today, the Minister for Defence. That is why I must also tell you that during the discussion of this bill and the committee procedure we will take this opportunity to examine some of the things that we have not been given an answer to in relation to what the Minister of Defence has done and has not done. It is a debate that is in the Defence Committee, but we also allow ourselves to ask questions to the Minister for Defence during the legislative process, and we will also take this opportunity to express our most severe criticism of the Minister for Defence. The way the Secretary of Defense has dealt with this matter, we are concerned that may have negative implications for Denmark's foreign and security policy. We are also quite unhappy with the fact that the government has elected the Secretary of Defense at the request of the Secretary of Defense, whom I understand to send a lot of employees on a very thin and unclear basis, and that sensitive information, not consciously but as a result of the Secretary of Defense's handling of this case, has reached the public with the negative consequences it may have. However, we would also like to acknowledge that the government has subsequently taken up some of that criticism. Now the task of this investigation is placed with the Minister for Justice, and I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the Minister for Justice for the course that has taken place, and also that, as I understand it in the press, the employees have now been offered to come back if not in the same posts, so in similar terms it was just missing when you return people without having a legal basis for it; there is also legal certainty for civil servants and that a trail has now been made to investigate the criticism of the supervision. But we also have to be honest with each other and say that what lies here is, of course, investigating the criticism, but that it also comes with a legal certainty price in relation to those who are being investigated, among other things. officials. The fact that there are major legal challenges is raised in the consultation answers, among others. that some of those to be investigated do not know the terms of reference which will be the subject of the investigation. We have to deal with this as a Parliament, and we in the Left will also be asking about it in committee. We also need to be honest with each other that this is going to end up in the supervisory committee with the intelligence services that we have in the Folketing. I do not think that is new, and I also said it when I was rapporteur on the original PET law many years ago that this committee should rightly be called not a supervisory committee but an insight committee. For that is what the committee is: you have insight, but you do not exercise supervision. But we have decided politically that this is the way it is, and we in the Left support that. But that does not change the fact that we do not have to tell the public that there are now a lot of things coming out in public, because that is not the case, and that is the case. We in the Left can stand by for this because it is about the security of the empire and it is about having an effective intelligence service that must be allowed to work. There we are challenged by the fact that if sensitive information comes to the public it is also repeatedly in the bill that risks compromising the effectiveness of the intelligence services and whether they can protect Denmark from external threats and our cooperation with our close allies. What we in the Left attach the highest importance to this matter is that we have a well-functioning intelligence service and that they succeed in protecting Denmark. However, we also think that there should be room for legal certainty for those who are being investigated. That is why we will be asking questions about it in committee and, as I said, we will also continue to ask questions to the Minister for Defence, who we do not think has done this very well. But we are equally pleased that the task in this area is now placed with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165808	Thank you. Then there are some comments. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165814	Thank you. Fortunately, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in committee. I look forward to it. I just need to understand something in the light of the comments made by the rapporteur here. Does the Left support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165831	Yeah. Although I am critical of my comments, and although we want to pursue some things during the committee procedure, it is a matter of Parliament's having to control the government in office at any time, we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have decided that we support the bill. However, we hope that there may be some areas where we can improve it. There is, of course, a challenge in this regard, and that is the speed. We also recognise that there is speed in it, but the draft law has been put forward without having been consulted, so we hope it is possible, which we would urge the Minister for Justice to see if there are some things in the consultation answers that will allow us to improve things without compromising on what is most important, namely the desire for this to be done in confidence. But yes, on this basis, the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165919	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022165923	Thank you for the floor. It should not be a secret that we in the Enhedslisten think this is a very, very inadequate basis for the investigation. Moreover, I do not share the view of the Left that this was a matter that should have been swept even further under the carpet from the outset. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is that I take note of the rapporteur's statement that at least those indicted in the matter should be allowed to see the mandate. I think that is fair enough, as is the point that has been made. But should supervision, which then presented these criticisms, also be allowed to see the mandate, because it is not even clear in this study? And it is quite obvious to me that they should be allowed to do so. But where does the Left stand in that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170006	Well, that is one of the questions I am going to put to the Minister for Justice, not in this Chamber today, but in committee, about what the justification is for this, and I also hope that we can go a little further than what has been described in the hearings. And then, of course, we will decide on it. There are also some questions of principle that we need to address as Parliament. As I have said, we support the bill, but we certainly want to be honest that we will then vote in favour of a bill in which Parliament initiates a Commission inquiry and in which the parliamentary committee it ends up with the Committee on Intelligence and the Supervisory Board of the Secret Service cannot necessarily be allowed to see the report, i.e. the committee of inquiry report. It will depend entirely on what is achieved. Well, that is also a question of principle. It is not the same as the fact that the Left votes against the bill if there is no movement in it, but we see an improvement potential, and if it can go hand in hand with the desire for more legal certainty and insight and does not compromise the work of the intelligence services and the concern for confidentiality, we may hope to have improved the proposal a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170115	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170119	But it is also the case that supervision is already clear, so I think it must be an absolute minimum both to let them see the mandate and also the results that finally come out of the study. I am glad that the Left is aware of this, but I would really like a more firm promise that this is something that needs to be settled. So I would like to ask: is the position of the Left that former ministers, including former defence ministers, should be able to be questioned in connection with this investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170151	In short, then, the minister from whom I lack the most answers is actually the current Minister for Defence and not former ministers. After all, it is the government's responsibility, and it is the Minister of Justice who will then have to make a mandate. And I understand that this will be discussed with the services of the intelligence services. There is the Left, and I am familiar with the Enhedslisten, and that must then be where it is anchored when we are where we are. That's why I can't get any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170224	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170228	Thank you. I think there's something a little funny about that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen is talking about legal certainty, that it is very important that legal certainty also applies here, but at the same time it is not really possible to answer whether, if necessary, you should not also interrogate former ministers, i.e. former defence ministers. I hear that the Left lacks all sorts of answers from the current Secretary of Defense, but since the rest of us do not know the terms of reference, it is a little difficult to know whether it would be necessary for that possibility to arise in questioning former defence ministers. So why not just decide that the option should of course be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170318	That is because I do not have the basis for concluding on it. That is, of course, the challenge of the situation we are facing, for which we are, of course, holding the government and the Minister for Defence responsible, and I do not have the knowledge to be able to conclude what needs to be investigated and who needs to be investigated. The government has, and the Minister of Justice has, and that is why we want to keep the government and the Minister of Justice in mind that it is the government's responsibility to have this matter fully investigated. And with this bill, it's going to be anchored in parliamentary supervision of the intelligence services. There is the Left, we have the Chair, and there is the Enhedslisten too, and there you have to answer the quite relevant question that Mrs Lund raises to me today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170401	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170402	I can inform you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen said that the Enhedslisten is not sitting there. Having said that, I do not understand why you want to get to the bottom of this, that you think it is important that we get to the bottom of this and that you think that legal certainty should be in place when you do not want to answer whether previous ministers should be able to be questioned too. I hear sir. Karsten Lauritzen says it's the government's responsibility, but that's why Mr. Karsten Lauritzen himself has a position, but the Left itself must have a position on whether former ministers should be able to be questioned here. I understand, but there are a lot of things that are secret here, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen also quite involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170453	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170454	I regret what I said, because I think it was during the last parliamentary term that the Enhedslisten was in charge of intelligence services. I do not want to say that I am sorry that the Enhedslisten is no longer sitting there, because it is the voters who have decided it, because it is in relation to the size of the parties. It is the usual criticism of civil defence ministers that we are hearing here from the Enhedslisten side of, and I shall take that down as it is. I can say that if the Enhedslisten had earlier in this case chosen to share the criticism we had of the Secretary of Defense, we could have sat down and talked about it, but early Enhedslisten chose to say that they thought that the current Secretary of Defense has done this very well, and then we have acted on it, and now we are where we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170541	Thank you. Then no one else wants to ask in this round. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022170558	Thank you to the government for presenting L 53. It is a proposal that creates a Commission that can clarify the issues that have been particularly in the media spotlight and the spotlight of all of us over the last few months. So it is good and right that it should be examined more closely. We in the Danish People's Party are interested in this happening and that it happens in a proper way, and that it does not happen in a way where our ability to act against other countries is damaged, becomes a problem, a challenge that means that we cannot work and secure ourselves against evil forces. If you read the newspapers and take a look at the media, you will see that it is actually the case that you can almost get the impression that it is almost a parliamentary drill, that is, a tease between the opposition and the government, and there is perhaps also some teasing on the part of the media, but the fact is, unfortunately, that there is much more to it than you sometimes see in the way the media cover the matter. This is because if we have a well-functioning democracy that we have in Denmark, we must be able to protect it from evil forces such as terrorists, people who want to hurt us, in other countries. You can, for example. mention Islamic State. If we want to do so, it requires that we have strong intelligence services, that we have strong relations with countries that will ensure what we want, namely to protect its own people from terror, from evil forces. That is why we cannot, with great seriousness, stand here in the Chamber and demand that everything that our intelligence services are concerned with should be transparent. Because if we did, we might as well not have any intelligence services to protect us from the forces I mentioned before. So we have to tell the Danes honestly, and we also have to do so here in the Folketing, what huge importance it has for the security of our country that we have intelligence services: that we have the Defense Intelligence Service and that we have the Police Intelligence Service. The matter is simply too important for the cause to be teased and politicized, because it is therefore important for all of us to protect Denmark and the Danes from the harm done by terrorists. So, as I said, we need strong relations with our allies, and we need the Defence Intelligence Service to be able to work secretly, sometimes and often, and we need the security that it matters to all of us that the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service can create us. In view of all this, the Danish People's Party basically supports the proposal for a commission. The investigation seems to be able to uncover the critical conditions we have also seen described about the Defence Intelligence Service and what the supervision has pointed out. It is common sense to uncover the conditions that are critical in a way that respects the confidentiality that must be observed, but it is clear that there is one but here too, and I think that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen mentioned it very well. We, as Parliament, also need to ensure that the rulers can be seen after in the cards. This does not, in itself, apply to the defence intelligence service in the way we might normally think about it, but I am thinking of political footprints which all indications have been made in this case, and perhaps that is also what may have caused various leaks, which are of course harmful to the country, if they cause concern about Denmark's position for several years to come and jeopardise the good cooperation we need with the intelligence services of other countries. So we also have to find a solution here in the Folketing, and it is not in the Commission which the government is proposing here, to find a solution to the difficult problem here, namely the political one. That's the hard problem here. The difficult problem is that we have a role on the part of the government and, in particular, on the part of the Secretary of Defense, who is very under-lyed and who is not being clarified with the Commission. That is why the Danish People's Party, and I believe other parties in the Danish Parliament, will go into detail, both in consultation and with questions which have already been done, but which we will do further, what has happened in the government, where information on these matters seems to have been provided for a long time, but where it is stated that it has only officially become really aware of this in August. What has happened in the government here during 2019 and 2020? What is the role of the ministers, what is the role of the government? The Danish People's Party will also have examined this. But that does not change the fact that we can support the proposal that is on the table today, and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171125	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171127	Thank you. I also think it is extremely important that we safeguard our democracy and our rule of law here in Denmark, and for us to do so, it also requires that the citizens of this country should be able to have confidence in what we are doing as rulers, what changing governments have done, and that, if there have been any illegal acts in the administration, we can be sure that a proper investigation is being carried out. I can be worried if this investigation is going to bring it to light. It's not just me who's worried about it either. It is also the Department of Human Rights, the Djøf, the Court of Justice and a number of other actors who are somewhat concerned about this. But I would like to ask the rapporteur because one of the former defence ministers, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, we have seen a lot in the media, has told quite a lot here, and he has been sitting for a long time, from which some of these conditions probably originate: Should his role be examined if it stands for the Danish People's Party? Do you think there should be a look at whether something wrong has happened during his ministerial period?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171233	So, we have no fine feelings about whether it is about a bourgeois government or a social democratic government that we have now and whether this commission is investigating one thing or the other. After all, the Commission has free hands on that front. When it comes to the very composition of the Commission, it is true that for example. The Court of Justice has been called into question by the fact that the Vestre Landsret does not itself appoint the three members. But it must also be said that when the government says that it is important for those responsible for the investigation to be approved, we must also believe that it is but, as Professor Frederik Waage has said to Berlingske today, the government cannot continue to reject it. In other words, it will probably be the case that if you do not hit it for the first time with three regulated people, you will do it the second time or the third time, and so we will have a situation in which we can have confidence that those responsible for the investigation will be appointed in the right way and that they will be as objective and thorough as they are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171346	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171347	Now there are a whole range of other criticisms than exactly this one, but we will have ample opportunity to return to that, I would say. We are also tabling a number of amendments to try to rectify this. But there's something else I'd like to ask you about. It is also necessary for us to have parties that go out and say: yes, we must actually have actively looked at the ministers who have been responsible. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this. It seems to me appropriate that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen is being questioned here? And should we also look at the issue of whether or not there is illegal mass surveillance of citizens? Is that something that should be investigated? I think that's pretty vital?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171428	I do not really understand why there is so much concern for the former Minister for Defence, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, but let us say that it is there, and then I can just say for our part that we are completely liberal in relation to what the Commission may decide here. If the Commission considers that there is a need to talk to the former Secretary of Defense, then the Commission decides, and then it has a free hand, and that would surely be very sensible. But it is not up to us to decide with whom to speak, and that is actually the answer to the question. So, the Commission has some options here and there must be some confidentiality about the work, it must be clear, for the sake of our country, for the sake of protecting us from the evil forces that are out there. I don't know if Enhedslisten can sometimes see them, I have such a little doubt about it, but I can see Islamic State, I can see al-Qaeda, I can see forces that will the Danish mentality to life and our values to life just look to France, where a poor teacher who teaches a little in the Mohammed drawings is being eliminated. Terrible!
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171538	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171539	Thank you. I can only agree with Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup in that there are forces in the world that threaten freedom of expression, which threaten open, strong democracies. What I'm wondering is that sir... Peter Skaarup, who in other contexts is side by side with the Enhedslisten that there should be more openness in the Public Service Act, will not in this context help the citizens of Denmark get a little more information about what is really going on. I'm very, very surprised. What I really want to ask is whether the Danish People's Party can accept this if there is a mass monitoring of the citizens of Denmark that is illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171634	Well, I don't want to be behind something that's illegal. That is also why we have the commission to look at some of these things. But to me, it is therefore a security and security that we can have by having strong intelligence services working with, for example, the United States and England, which have two strong intelligence services that can help us avoid terrorism. We are very concerned about this in the Danish People's Party. I do not know if Enhedslisten is so concerned about it, since you want to put it all out openly; if you want to look at everyone in the cards; if we in the Folketing have to ask questions and have comments on confidential matters. That is not acceptable if we are to have a secret intelligence service that can work outside normal parliamentary scrutiny. That's why we need to be sharp on this. If we are to monitor terrorists, then this is not a matter for us to discuss in the Danish Parliament. Then you just have to do it and help the Danes against terror. So Enhedslisten also has to understand that. It takes a secret job to keep an eye on them so they don't know they're being watched, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171740	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171743	Of course there has to be a certain degree of confidentiality, but what we are talking about here is not a question of putting things forward in the newspapers, in the media or in parliamentary answers. What we are talking about here is that we are in a situation where we do not even know what the criticisms of supervision are that have been taken into account here. At least I think the Folketing has a right to know that, but we are not being told today. I find it very difficult to understand that a party such as the Danish People's Party, which otherwise speaks widely about both our freedom of expression and our democracy, agrees. Well, sir. Peter Skaarup knows very well that the prerequisite for real democracy is openness. I think that Mr. Peter Skaarup is making some very false contradictions in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171828	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171831	Listen, is it a joke that we have L 53 on the table today? Is it just a blue light? Is there nothing in it, or is there anything in it? And isn't the reason we have L 53, that is to say this commission, exactly what Mrs Lund says we have heard about investigating? I guess it is. It is true that we do not know much about the formal issue, but I assume that there is a reason for it. I would just like to say that it is not acceptable for everything to be put out in public, because then those we want to monitor are the ones we want to prevent, for example. to carry out terror against school teachers in Denmark that they are being watched. And that's exactly what we have to avoid them knowing about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022171917	Thank you. Following on from the previous questioners, it is quite a long way from saying that everything is being put forward, to what we are seeing here, with L 53. I had to say hello to you and tell you that the buckle is pretty big. Because what we are talking about here is a rather toothless opportunity to see what is going on in the intelligence services. That's why I just have to ask Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup, if he does not agree that it is the case that when you have an intelligence service, it is also necessary to have some sort of control over what is going on within the framework of the law, so that Danish citizens, for example. do not risk being subject to illegal surveillance by either Danish intelligence services or foreign intelligence services having access to surveillance by Danish citizens. Isn't that a valid concern to have in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172018	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172020	But listen to me: now it is the government to which Enhedslisten has pointed out that this proposal has been put forward. It is the government that has weighed back and forth where it thinks the right cut should lie. And it must be assumed that if there are huge problems for the Enhedslisten in what is on the table here, then this is a matter between the Social Democrats and the Enhedslisten and some of the other supporting parties, because one is willing enough to support the government. I assume, of course, that the government will ensure that the things that are relevant to the investigation are examined in this commission. So, allow me to say, and I would like to acknowledge that Enhedslisten has not been on that wagon that it is therefore important that we have some intelligence services that can work and that can receive warnings about potential terrorist acts in Denmark before it is too late. And if we are to be able to do so, it is no use having it all laid out in the Parliamentary Chamber, because then we have shot ourselves so hard in the foot that we cannot have the cooperation that protects the Danes from terror.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172130	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172131	It is fair enough to need an intelligence service, but I assume that the rapporteur also agrees that we need to have some sort of control over the intelligence service and with what tasks it performs precisely in order to protect citizens from illegal surveillance. That is what we are discussing here, and therefore there is such a little strange that we are going to start discussing relations with the government and everything else. After all, we are discussing a specific legislative proposal that has been put in the world to resolve a specific issue, and the question is, of course, whether that bill solves that problem. And there I can just say from the Enhedslisten that we do not think so. What I am asking the Danish People's Party is whether it is of the opinion that this bill helps to ensure that Danish citizens are protected from illegal surveillance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172217	It is my clear opinion that with this bill and the other initiatives that the Minister of Justice has told us about, including the Enhedslisten, are on the way, I expect that we have done what we have to do. But it is not the same as saying that we here in the Folketing must know everything about what is going on, and that is a little what I hear Enhedslisten say. As is probably more or less the only party here in the Danish Parliament, the Enhedslisten has a deep mistrust of this commission, while everyone else we have certainly not heard SF or anyone else say anything against it.. it seems that what is on the table today has quite well been found out by the government. I don't really understand why it's so terrible. Well, it's a mistrust that you have to most of the Folketing on the Enhedslisten side. And the role you play here, I am afraid, leads to one thing, and that is that you can wipe out any contact with the intelligence services of other countries, if it were up to the Enhedslisten, and I will not be involved in that; the Danish People's Party will not be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172320	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172338	Thank you for the floor, President. I think we were all somewhat shocked when we saw the Supervisory Board's press release on the defense intelligence service in late summer. It is normal for the supervisory body to make criticisms of it every year, but such basic criticism as was made here is not normal, not at all. Criticism was about possible disclosure of information, disclosure of incorrect information, unlawful use of information, illegal collection of information, lack of response to possible espionage and possible illegal processing of data relating to a staff member who controls them. Of course, this should not be something to which an independent body is exposed. Well, you're almost tempted to say that there wasn't just one row full or two rows full there was the whole record full in relation to the criticism that came. What do you do about it? Because it's not something we've tried before, and fortunately for that. That is something that has to be questioned with the criticism raised. That is why it is important to find out what is up and down and to verify possible illegalities and infringements. Our current framework for investigative committees cannot include the considerations that need to be taken into account in this particular question, for example. the fact that the investigation must be organised in a sensible way, so that Denmark remains fully integrated into the Western Security Policy Alliance, including that the confidence of our alliance partners is preserved by taking into account sensitive information in the investigating commission, for this is in fact a fundamental condition for a well-functioning intelligence service. In addition, there is also a very significant public interest, and rightly so, in such a serious matter. The study must be carried out as quickly as possible and very thoroughly in order to take account of the serious criticisms that have been made and that we need to get to the bottom of. At the same time, account must also be taken of the employees concerned, as can be seen from the speed with which the Commission is to work. It is clear that it is not an easy balance to include all the considerations in one and the same commission of inquiry. There are, for example: a certain built-in contrast to the fact that something must go both very quickly and be very thorough and be in the public interest to very sensitive information from the intelligence services. It is not easy, but we think that there is a realistic proposal for this in the draft law here. This also means that we support the bill. Having said that, it does not mean that there are no things that can be questioned in the legislative proposal. Anything else would be strange when it is completely untravelled land and there are many relevant and important considerations to be taken into account. And we will also have to read the consultation answers once more very carefully, but also to use them in further discussions. Djøf points out among other things: to the legal certainty of employees, as has been the case, and then the Court of Justice points to something about the composition, that is, how to appoint judges, and it is clear that we need to look at that. Then we also look forward to the fact that the conditions imposed by supervision, including the revision of the FE law, also lead to a parallel amendment and attention to the PET law, and that we also get the whistleblower scheme recommended by the supervision. It then follows, it may be said, a different track from what we are just discussing today, and in this respect the Radical Left will, among other things, be. also raise the question of who supervision of the intelligence services should forward-lookingly refer to the Control Committee instead of to the government as it is now? So, although it is against the backdrop of a slave, the Radical Left is looking forward to the continuing discussions on our important and skilled intelligence services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172821	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172824	Thank you. I agree that there has to be a rather high degree of confidentiality about this very study, but the fact that as rapporteurs, as parties here in the Folketing, we cannot even see the mandate for what is actually to be investigated here is very, very unusual. That's not the way you usually do an investigation. I think we can agree on that. The Institute for Human Rights also says that it is absolutely fundamental that we need to have more openness on this study if citizens are to be able to trust it. That is why I would like to ask Radicals: how can one be satisfied with voting in favour of a legislative proposal in which there are basically no guarantees at all that these conditions are being properly examined, in other words where radicals do not know exactly what is going to be included and where it is also quite clear that there are some very serious things that supervision takes up that will not be investigated at all? Is that really satisfactory for the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172928	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022172930	Thank you. I am pleased that Enhedslisten recognises that there is, and must be, a special consideration also in this case to the sensitive information that is relevant here. I'd like to sign for that. In relation to the mandate here, it is also a relevant and topical question. The way in which we normally look at parliamentary control, whether the intelligence services remain within the powers that they now have, is, after all, under the auspices of the Control Committee. And that, among other things. is the subject of this, is that they just have to go deeper in terms of whether or not they have complied with these powers. It is natural that those who already look at it, namely the Control Committee, which is also being set up, should have the opportunity to look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173019	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173022	I just have to say that we basically cannot really use that for anything. Because the Control Committee has no way of responding if what is being put forward is not good enough. After all, the control committee cannot go out and say anything. So we have no democratic assurance of that. This is also why the Institute for Human Rights is proposing a large number of improvements to this bill. I can promise Radicals that we will take that from the Enhedslisten side as well and table as an amendment. I would like to know whether radicals will be open to voting some of these improvements into the law, such as: This means that we need to have a slightly clearer framework for what is being investigated, so that citizens can actually feel assured that there will be a proper examination of these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173105	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173106	The Radical Left will, of course, take a concrete and reciprocal position on all the amendments that come up with a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173112	Thank you. And then there are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173206	Thank you. This is really sensitive. We need to adopt a bill that will allow us to investigate these incredibly serious charges from the Intelligence Supervisory Board aimed at the Defence Intelligence Service. The charges are many, but central is that the supervision is accusing the defense intelligence service of, among other things. to withhold information for supervision and even to provide false information directly. It is information that there has been spied against Danish citizens and many other things. After all, the matter is a delicate one, as we cannot discuss matters relating to the secret services in public. But one thing is clear, and that is that the accusations must be investigated. That is why it is also a difficult test setup that we are embarking on, because there must be a balance in relation to legal certainty for those who are being accused, while ensuring a high level of confidentiality. We in the SF have always been very concerned about legal certainty in this area, and we want as much transparency as possible, but we also recognise that intelligence services are rarely able to put everything forward, and they should not. It is important for their work in combating terrorism and other serious crimes that this can be done in confidence. It's just not the same as not being hand in hand with these favors. That is where supervision comes in and can carry out those checks in confidence so that we, as citizens, can sit back and say that there are independent people who have control that everything goes by the book. After all, in the SF, we presented a proposal both in 2005, in 2008, in 2015 and now again in early 2020, which was unfortunately cleared off the track due to corona, but which is now being retabled, and which is aimed at strengthening the Control Committee or the Supervisory Board of Intelligence. It was then also the case that the ongoing pressure became a new supervision in 2012, and it was, of course, the sole supervision that we, as a government party, succeeded in agreeing with the other parties on. That is why our position today was that supervision should not be limited in its operation. Supervision must be able to control any subject it may find convenient. There must be whistleblower schemes that are external and anchored with supervision. However, we will have a new discussion on this when the proposal comes on the agenda. In those words, I would like to say that we support the proposal and are very sorry about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173513	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173516	In other words, we fully agree on the one hand, on the one hand, that there must be greater control of the intelligence services and, on the other, that supervision must be strengthened. That is also why we did not initially vote in favour of this model. That is because the model we are working on today is already fundamentally inadequate. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: how can the SF be involved in voting in favour of an investigation into this extremely serious case of potential mass surveillance of Danish citizens, which is about whether the intelligence service has lied to and misled the supervision that was supposed to keep an eye on them? How can the SF help to vote in favour of a study where we do not even know what the mandate contains, where we do not actually know whether the key issues are being dealt with? Is it not too optimistic, one must say, or confidently, that one just expects it to be expanded when we do not actually have any clear assurances about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173619	In other words, we have said in the SF that we think we should respond to the monitoring press release and that an investigation should be started. And I understand Mrs Eva Flyvholm's concern. That study is coming now, and I must be the first to regret that we do not have an investigation that can only be made public, but it is at the heart of the work of the services that there can be no public opinion, and that is why we have stood on this strong supervision, which Enhedslisten also stands on. If not everyone can know what is happening, then a strong supervision must be able to. We have a member of the Control Committee and we know that she will do her best to get a proper investigation out of it. This is the best guarantee we can give, and the Enhedslisten knows this, because the Enhedslisten was in the Control Committee until recently. There is confidentiality in relation to the work of the Control Committee, which is why we cannot really comment on the matter, but we have this confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173720	Mrs. Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173722	It has to be said that it has actually been stated in the past that incorrect information may also have been given to the Control Committee. There we have said: can we at least get a hand in that the Minister for Justice will not give us that. Will the SF handshake that this is something that needs to be included in this investigation and make it a requirement to vote for it? I mean, these are the very vital things that we need to know, and it's not just about the SF member or Enhedslisten's member somewhere being told something. It is also a question of citizens being able to have confidence in the state and in the fact that secret services must also comply with the law. I don't think we're sure about that here. The Institute for Human Rights and Djøf doesn't think we are either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173804	Well, that's what the Control Committee's gonna have to decide. And again: I understand the concern, but the important thing is that now we hand over the task. After all, we cannot know what is involved in the investigation and we are confident that our member of the Control Committee is doing his best. That is not to say that it is not a valid concern; it is. There is just one reason why the structure is as it is, and that is among other things. for the purposes of the work carried out by the secret service.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173830	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173832	Thank you for that and thank you for that fine speech from the rapporteur. I thought there were a lot of good points. What surprises me then is that when you list all the good positions you have on openness, all the resolutions that have been tabled in the past, you do not take the opportunity now and make the demands that Mrs Flyvholm has just mentioned. I'm very surprised. I would like to hear the SF's suggestion on how the Danes should have confidence in an investigation where they cannot even know whether the Control Committee's criticism is actually being investigated. How will the SF ensure that the Danes will have confidence that the intelligence services will be fully investigated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173920	Part of that is, of course, that we are going to resubmit this proposal for enhanced supervision and that supervision should be able to have all the access they need. We think this is very relevant now, but I really think that we can have confidence in the Control Committee in the light of the developments that have taken place and that they can take the assessments that are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173948	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022173952	It is not, of course, a question of whether we trust the Control Committee. Right now, we are in a situation where the Control Committee may have been given some incorrect information. We are in a situation in which we cannot even know whether the Commission's report, the study being carried out, actually deals with the criticisms of supervision. That's what this is all about. That's what this is all about! I think it is very good to table a motion for a resolution. We will support it in the Enhedslisten. It just doesn't really have anything to do with whether the Danes can trust this particular investigation of the intelligence services. So I guess I'd like to ask again how the SF will ensure that we can trust that things are actually being thoroughly examined here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174035	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174036	As I hear both the government and the other parties involved in this, we all agree that the offences committed must be investigated and that we must get to the bottom of this continuously, and we leave that to the bodies we have now decided to deal with it. I am confident that this can be done and trusted in the Member we have in the Control Committee, but also in the Commission we are now setting up. Then you have to find out, as it were, whether there is more to be on the track that needs to be taken up. I think that will work very well. But so, I appreciate that Enhedslisten takes the position they are taking, because it is of course a completely valid concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174127	We must be careful not to exceed speaking time. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174132	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur referred to the need for confidentiality, of course, and that is absolutely right. Of course there must be, but there is also a difference between confidentiality and secrecy. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether part of the problem here is not that there has been too much secrecy in the intelligence services. For if supervision has not been able to obtain information on what has actually been done in the intelligence services and where there has been a suspicion that illegal surveillance has been carried out by Danish citizens, and also on industrial espionage, then it is likely that a culture of secrecy has emerged. If what is the cure for it is not exactly that you make sure that when you do an examination of what has happened, you can at least see the Commission; that you make sure that, in relation to the things to be elucidated, you know what is going on. Then, of course, there must be confidentiality, but surely we need to put an end to the secrecy which means that a state can actually arise in the state where there is no control whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174250	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174251	That is why we want enhanced supervision, which has access to investigate all aspects of the work of the services, and that is why we want these external whistleblower schemes, isn't it? This is the path that I mean and which the SF thinks we should go. For Enhedslisten is of course onto something that is right. The only question is how best to handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174317	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174319	But the problem is a little that if we cannot even see what kind of commission we are doing, where we can see what is being elucidated, then we are helping to contribute to the secrecy that has created the problem. Isn't that exactly where we should say that if we are going to end this, and if we are going to ensure that there is confidence in the intelligence services, then we need to end the secrecy and not ensure that there is confidentiality? Because that's what can give confidence. And should that not be precisely why we also made sure that we could at least see the terms of reference so that we could see what sort of things are being examined?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174354	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174355	Well, the Control Committee can then be allowed to do so, and I am confident that they can respond to and manage it. That's just like what's in our position. And the combination of it and a strengthened supervision I think is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174416	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. The next is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174429	After all, this is an insanely serious matter, which concerns the fact that there have been, probably, illegal activities in the Defence Intelligence Service, that there may be illegal mass surveillance of the Danes and that the Defence Intelligence Service has misled the supervision set up to monitor them. It's not just some accusations that have been made. It is in fact a very, very thorough investigation carried out by the group of judges and lawyers who are in what is known as the Intelligence Directorate, who have conducted a special investigation into the Defence Intelligence Service, after they learned through a whistleblower that something was going on that was completely wrong and that it had been going on for a very many years that for many years we had been misled into this supervision when we tried to see whether what was going on in the Defence Intelligence Service was actually legal or illegal. So this is a matter which is absolutely crucial to our democracy, also being properly and soundly investigated if something has been done wrong and illegal, which I have to say frankly suggests there is when a group of judges and lawyers who are in this supervision stand up and say: there is something wrong. There's what they call an inappropriate culture of legality in the defense intelligence service. They say the Chief of Defense Intelligence has given them false information. They say that there is a risk that information about Danish citizens may be obtained without justification. They say that there are operational activities that are contrary to Danish legislation. They say that there has been unjustified monitoring of an employee in the supervision. And they say there are indications of espionage in the Department of Defense area that are not being followed up. These are some insanely serious things that supervision went out and put forward here two months ago. This needs to be responded to, which is why I was also initially pleased that the reaction from the government was that this was very serious and that, of course, an investigation had to be carried out. I have been very much in agreement with that all the way through was very necessary. Now we have reached the point where we have the basis for this investigation in the Parliamentary Chamber. I just have to say that I'm not so optimistic anymore, because it's completely darkened what this is all about. We have been able to get a few sentences from the Minister for Justice at a press conference where, moreover, the press could not even ask follow-up questions afterwards, in relation to what it was about, and some very loose sentences about what this is going to be about. The draft law simply says that we will deal with certain aspects of what supervision is putting forward. So, I think it should be a minimum that all these serious issues raised by supervision should all be examined. You don't even want to do that. So it is only a few parts and we cannot get a clear answer as to how far one is willing to go at all. We had a consultation earlier today in which I tried to get an answer as to whether or not to examine, for example, whether or not to examine. former defence ministers have misled the Folketing. We cannot get an answer as to whether it will be examined. Since supervision came out with their criticism, some former members of what is called Parliament's Control Committee also stood out and said: God, we are therefore also concerned that we have got the wrong information. I have asked the Minister for Justice this question: can I have an answer as to whether it is something that will be included in the investigation? Because, of course, this is deeply serious. I can't get an answer to that either. When we look at the consultation answers that have come in after a completely indecent short consultation period, the actors also say that it is quite unreasonable that something that goes as far as this one, they get a few days to comment on it, and especially the Institute for Human Rights says it very clearly: when there is so much cover-up around this study, it is therefore difficult to maintain confidence on the part of the people, too, and they call for more things to come out. No one, even Enhedslisten, argues that everything should be brought forward here. It is clear that there are some things that need to be covered by confidentiality, but to put forward the basic guidelines on what is being investigated can be done, and that must be done if we are to have confidence in democracy. There is no one to tell me that a well-informed man like the Minister of Justice and an entire ministry cannot find a way to do it in a way that is also sound in terms of the security of the realm. Unfortunately, I am left with a very clear impression that when it is so minimal what we are told about that investigation, it is not about the security of the empire. It is about the fact that the Left and the Social Democrats have agreed that no ministers should be fucked for doing something wrong here, and that is deeply worrying for our democracy and simply not worthy of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174945	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022174948	Thank you. I find it deeply worrying for our democracy that it is simply not worthy of our democracy when it comes to hearing such conspiracy theories from Parliament's platform. I simply do not understand when the rapporteur says that everything is darkened and that there is no direction or anything and that nothing can be told. On page 9 of the bill, in the first column, in the middle, it says exactly: • On the background stated, the study will focus on the most central and concrete points of the Monitoring of Intelligence Criticism, including questions about the possible collection and transmission of information concerning Danish citizens, the orientation of changing defence ministers, the possible detention of information by the Defence Intelligence Service..... etc. etc. I guess it's just to address some of the most central criticisms. That is my one question. The second question is that the rapporteur says that we can have confidence in the study carried out by supervision. Why, then, is it not possible to have confidence that an independent Commission based on three judges from the Vestre Landsret can carry out a Commission work? Shouldn't that be trusted too?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175059	I certainly believe that we can have confidence in the judges who are on the set up commission. I have absolutely no objection to that. Nor do I have any objections to the fact that we are making a commission. I have an objection to the fact that we are not making a clear mandate for what needs to be investigated. A few examples are given here. That is simply not good enough. For example, I have. It is not possible to get an answer as to whether or not previous ministers have given incorrect information. Are you going to check it out? I cannot get an answer from the Minister on that. You can't necessarily read that out of this. It just says to look at what they've been told. Actually, it doesn't say if they have to be called as witnesses or anything else. That is one of the points raised by several of the players. Perhaps it was a good idea to inform who is being summoned as witnesses and who is being accused in this case... such basic things. We can't be told. It is not normal, it is not everyday, that you stand in the Folketing and vote in favour of a proposal where you cannot actually know what the study covers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175159	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175200	If the rapporteur has confidence in the three judges of the established Commission, is the rapporteur not confident that they are doing the right thing when it says that if they consider it essential that they extend the field of investigation, then they can ask for it and then, after consultation with the Minister for Defence and the Committee on Control, the Minister for Justice will have to take a position on it? That's one. The second is: Is this not really about the fact that if it is in the Enhedslisten, there should be no confidentiality, or at least the degree of confidentiality should be much, much less? It is, of course, in the nature of things, and then it may be that we look differently at how some intelligence services operate in such a way that there has to be confidentiality about their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175239	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175240	For the Enhedslisten, it is about the fact that we want to see the light on, for example, whether we want to see it. There is an illegal mass surveillance of the Danes. We would like to know whether there are ministers who have been giving incorrect and incorrect information to supervision or to the Folketing, in the same way as we would like to know whether there are leaders of the Defence Intelligence Service who have done so. This is absolutely vital to our democracy. However, when the rapporteur asks whether we cannot trust the judges to take up extra things, we do not know, because we do not know the mandate. The judges are probably capable enough lawyers, when they get a mandate in hand, to follow it in their work. So if they are not asked to do the job properly, they also have a difficult framework for it. After all, they will not be better unless they have a proper mandate. And we can't know if they've got that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175325	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175328	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, the unitary list lives in the delusion that you can have an effective intelligence service operating in the public domain. It can't be done, it's nowhere in the world. You have to agree to compromise on some things if you are to have an intelligence service that looks after the Danes. It recognizes almost all the parties of the Folketing, but the Enhedslisten remains in this delusion. But that's not what I wanted to ask. What I would like to ask is that Mrs Eva Flyvholm, when we had consultations with the Minister for Defence originally, was incredibly pleased with the assurances of the Minister for Defence that this was being investigated and the public. That is why I would like to hear what has actually happened. At that time you were very fond of the Secretary of Defense, but now you're very, very critical. In other words, what the Minister for Defence said at the time of the consultation is exactly what is being proposed here. What happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175420	It has happened since then, that now we've been told or not been told, I almost said what this investigation should be about. We went to some meetings with both the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of Defense, where we, all parties, sat down and said: okay, fine, now we have to look at what this investigation should be about. I was optimistic, I'd say, in the first place. Subsequently there followed a very long process, where the Left also made a very big trick of trying to explain to the Secretary of Defense how this should never have been brought to light. I thought it was a little unsightly, I would say, especially when you have been in power for a long period of time, from which the problems arise. But let it go. And then we got to be called back to meetings and get to know what this investigation should contain. The problem is that we have not got a proper framework for what that study should contain. So that is why I have become somewhat less optimistic; because I simply believe that this is far below the low level of what can be expected in a democracy. And it's not at all about all the intelligence work being brought to light. It is about securing a proper framework for an investigation, and we should be able to do that in a more sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175525	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175526	Yes, then we should have done what the Left would have recommended, namely that the government dealt with it in confidence with the parties of the Folketing. Now we're • because it's come to the public, and it's first and foremost the Secretary of Defense's responsibility • ended here where we are. However, I repeat: what the Minister for Defence said to Mrs Flyvholm is actually what is reflected here in the bill. I do not understand why Enhedslisten was so enthusiastic about the Minister for Defence's handling in the consultation and so now is very, very critical. You've got what the Secretary of Defense promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175559	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175600	No, we were promised a proper and thorough investigation of this, and unfortunately that is not what we have been given. We have the opportunity to rectify this in the course of the legislative procedure here, if the government and, incidentally, the Left are interested in it; then we have the opportunity to rectify it. But we have not had a proper and responsible investigation here. And it is not just Mrs Eva Flyvholm and the Enhedslisten who mean it; it is also the Institute of Human Rights, the Djøf, the Court of Justice, etc. who believe that there are fundamental problems here. So I hope that the Left will be interested in achieving that goal. I have a very clear feeling that unfortunately there are parties that do not want to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175639	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175642	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and speech. What I would just like to ask is: if we now hear this very, very harsh criticism from the Enhedslisten side of the government we have pointed out, what will we do about it? Well, what can we expect from Enhedslisten? Because these are really serious matters, says Enhedslisten; it is our democracy that is at stake, it is completely insane. But you are sitting with the government that you yourself have pointed out. What will happen from the Enhedslisten's side in the future if this bill is not amended?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175720	Now it is not in any way to be unkind to the rapporteur, but I have to make it clear that this is not just a criticism of the government; it is also very much a criticism of the other parties. It is a criticism of the Left which has been sitting with the ministerial posts for a long number of years when the problems have spawned. It is also a criticism of the Danish People's Party, which I do not think is properly guarded about our democracy and opportunities for insight here. So it is actually a criticism not only of the government but also of a large number of the other parties. I hope that in future legislative work we can actually get this right. This is a criticism which is quite clear on the part of a number of the players in the consultation response; so it would be nice if we could improve it here. However, this requires some to play ball, and that is an open invitation to the rapporteur that this could be done better if the rapporteur were interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175816	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175817	I think we're talking about apples and pears here. In other words, as I understand it, it is a criticism of the bill we have here, which comes from the Enhedslisten and which is thought to be virtually contrary to our democracy and so on. etc. Then the rapporteur mentions something with some previous governments and something like that, but now we are talking about a legislative proposal today coming from a government that the Enhedslisten points to. And I ask: does it have any consequences for the government and the cooperation that exists between the Enhedslisten and the government that it is so terrible? That's what I'm asking. And I would like to ask again: does it have any consequences for the government that is sitting here now that Enhedslisten believes that this whole thing is quite awful?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175856	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175857	I have to say that I think it is deeply serious that we cannot have a proper investigation into this. And if the rapporteur is offering to put his mandates behind the Enhedslisten, if it is the case that we are going to overturn the government, that we do not have a thorough enough investigation here, then I think we should talk about it. This is just not the feeling I have, i.e. that the Danish People's Party is interested in it. Because that requires a majority of that kind of thing, I have to say. In this way, it is absolutely crucial that we all take responsibility here, and there I think that both the Left and the Danish People's Party have unfortunately helped to push for this to go further into the darkness and not be properly ridden out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175936	Then there are no more comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and there are some rapporteurs who are not here, so that is Mr. Peter Seier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022175946	Thank you for the floor. The bill lays down the framework for an investigation into certain matters relating to the Defence Intelligence Service. We also believe in New Citizens that it is important that we examine this matter, but we also believe that it is essential that we take into account the necessary confidentiality and protection of classified material. It's self-evident. So new citizens support the bill as it has been put forward, and I should also like to welcome Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180023	Thank you. There are no comments. There are no more rapporteurs who want to speak, and then it is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180038	Thank you for the debate and the speeches that have been made. It is true, of course, that the debate has revolved around, namely that here we need to examine a situation in which, on the one hand, we need to uncover the criticism that has been raised and, on the other hand, we need to find a confidential space in which to do so. The government has laid down four grounds for the legislative proposal we have now put forward. The first is that we must be able to trust our intelligence services, that they act within the powers and cooperate with the supervision that controls them. The second is that we are based on the basic premise that Denmark has historically been and that Denmark must continue to be the third preface to the fact that the study must not lead to the dissemination of very sensitive information beyond what is absolutely necessary. After all, it is ultimately a question of ensuring a well-functioning intelligence service in the interests of the security of Denmark and the people. Finally, the fourth is that the investigation can be concluded as soon as possible, both for the sake of the persons involved and for the sake of calming the Defence Intelligence Service and calming our possible cooperation with other parties. If you take the four grounds as a basis, it is difficult to see anything other than that it has to be reflected in an inquiry which is anchored in the parliamentary committee in which we in the Folketing have chosen to say that here the special cases of intelligence services have to be dealt with, namely in what we popularly call the Control Committee, where we have chosen to construct it in such a way that there are five parties sitting here, the five largest parties who have realised what work is being done. That is the democratic model we have chosen. It is therefore wrong to say that this is undemocratic. There are some who may disagree with the fact that it is about the degree of confidentiality that is the case, but I think that is basically a political disagreement which may not be all about the issue of confidentiality, but which is about the fact that, if we believe that our freedom and our security as a country and as individuals stand on the fact that we have been and must continue to be an integral part of the Western Security Policy Alliance, we also have to have a look at the fact that, if we cannot do this here in a confidential space, we risk that the intelligence services with which there is cooperation, for example. will not give us information, will give us slower, will cooperate less, and that means that we are exposed to, for example. possible terrorist attacks. I'm not saying it's happening. In fact, I believe that what will happen if we end up in the unhappy situation is not that we are being called by the others and that they say that we cannot get information anymore, but that the cooperation is just as quietly waning, that we are getting less information, that it takes longer to get the information, and that we are therefore not able to defend Denmark's security and ensure the Danes' security as well as we are in the situation we have now. It is so true that, if we choose to say that it is important, but that we will nevertheless carry out a study, and that we will even carry out a Commission study, which is probably the strongest investigative tool we can find at all, then we will have to modify the way in which the Commission of Inquiry works, for example. with closed doors, e.g. with which parts of the final report could be published, e.g. that the material must not be carried out by the Defence Intelligence Service, e.g. the choice of aides and e.g. the persons involved and their access to materials. And that is not because we do not think it is relevant, but it is because we need to be careful that we do not risk the ability of our intelligence services to work and thus our security and security. I am very pleased with the very, very broad support for the draft law and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180602	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180604	Unfortunately, it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten feel that there are some very serious shortcomings in this. I think it is highly questionable that we should, for example, be doing so. cannot bring that mandate forward. All the parties of the Folketing would have liked to have been able to support this study, which I think is important, but we simply cannot take responsibility for the quality of it as it now stands. I hope that the Minister for Justice will also be open to trying to remedy some of these problems in the legislative work. We have been around a lot of it and there were many more questions, but I would like to ask some very specific questions now. Firstly, is the question of legality being dealt with in this study? Because this is, in fact, an issue that is still topical. Are we going to get clarification as to whether the way data on Danes are actually collected and provided is actually illegal? Secondly, is the supervision, which is the one that has initiated this whole matter, allowed to see this mandate, which I am now sorry we are not being allowed to see?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180724	It's always so annoying when you only have one minute to answer three questions. On the other hand, it gives the privilege of opting out, and I really believe that the question that the questioner is most interested in is whether the illegal capture will be examined. One of the points that has actually been made in the draft law is that the most central and concrete points of supervision's criticism should be examined and, in fact, questions have been raised about the possibility of obtaining and passing on information concerning Danish nationals as one of the elements which we know need to be examined. Information on changing defence ministers has also been mentioned, regarding one of the issues raised earlier, and the same is the question of FE's possible withholding of information and the provision of incorrect information to the supervisory body and questions about FE's possible unjustified processing of information about a supervisory staff member.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180820	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180821	I am aware that this is mentioned here, but what I would like to ask the Minister is whether it is being dealt with in such a way that, if it actually emerges that what is going on is illegal, the way in which information is collected and probably handed over to the Americans is contrary to the law, then can be sure that it will be stopped. Is it something that we get to know about, and will it be stopped? In fact, I would also like an answer as to whether supervision is allowed to see what the mandate is, because it is quite central to giving them the opportunity to guarantee quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180854	In fact, I think that the question misses a little, even in the opening remark, when you ask why we cannot just lay out the mandate. The commission for the investigation is, of course, on a great deal of confidential material, which is why it is the right way to deal with this confidentiality and at the same time to have it investigated using the Committee on Intelligence, which is the tool we have to get the two ends to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180923	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022180925	Thank you. Now the Minister for Justice began his speech by talking about the democratic model we have chosen. I would just like to stress, for the sake of good order, that this is the model that we in the Enhedslist do not always think is so democratic. What I would like to ask the Minister for Justice is that we wonder why not all the criticisms of supervision are being examined. It is, of course, a little difficult for us to know what it is for some people who are being examined because we do not have access to the much-mentioned mandate. But I am surprised when, in spite of everything in the government, we are happy about that in the Enhedslisten, and we also agree with that that we want things to be examined, why not all the criticism points of supervision are taken along.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181017	When the study is defined as it is, it is basically linked to the fact that it is essential that the study is carried out relatively quickly, as I said before, and that knowledge of very sensitive information is not exposed. That is why we have chosen to set up a study in which the criticism of supervision, where it is most clear and concrete, is at the heart of the study. In addition, we say: may the Commission, during the course of the investigation, come up against information which gives rise to other factors which may need to be investigated, then they can go to me as Minister of Justice, and then, together with the Secretary of Defense and, incidentally, the Committee on Intelligence, I will decide whether those matters should also be included in the investigation. And that, in our view, is the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181115	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. No, I'm sorry, it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181120	Thank you. I thought that you automatically got your second brief remark. I would just still like to wonder, because I understand that this is the democratic model that ensures the best supervision, but when supervision comes up with criticism, and they are specifically employed to look at the intelligence services in the maps, you do not choose to include all the criticisms. And that really emphasizes how difficult this debate is to take here in the Folketing, which is us who are to take control of you in the government, i.e. when we cannot see the mandate. That makes the debate really, really difficult, and in fact I think it is justified to say that it is not very democratic. I cannot understand why we are not examining all the criticisms of the supervision which we ourselves have set up to control our own intelligence services.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181220	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181221	Well, it is a little regardless of what is actually said in the draft law, i.e. the basic prefaces that are being put in. Of course, the basic prefaces that are being introduced help to determine what needs to be examined, i.e. the definition of the study. It also helps to determine how it should be examined. And, of course, that also helps to determine to some extent what it is potentially for a result that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181252	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181255	Thank you. I assume that the Minister agrees that confidence in the intelligence services has been weakened in connection with the criticism that has been made here from supervision, because it is a rather serious criticism which raises some, including for democracy, quite serious issues in relation to mass surveillance of Danish citizens, in relation to industrial espionage, in relation to substantial information being held against supervision. If this is acknowledged, is it not necessary to ensure that the secrecy which has led to this mistrust in relation to the intelligence services is eliminated? And if you want to restore that confidence, it must surely be necessary to ensure that the criticisms raised are all examined. Otherwise, we risk being in exactly the same situation again: when we have made a commission to investigate the supervision of the intelligence services, we just need to conduct a new investigation of that commission to find out why it was that they did not get the information they were looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181404	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181405	I fear that, unfortunately, the desire expressed for a close-out is based on the political disagreement between, for example, the two sides of industry. Social democracy and the Enhedslisten, about how important it is that we remain an integral part of the Western Security Policy Alliance. Because if you take it easy, you can risk our relationship with other intelligence services, you can risk our security and security, etc. That is just not the position of the Social Democrats, and that is a real political disagreement between our parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181445	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181447	I believe, then, that the concern for the security of citizens is surely also about the fact that citizens have a security against being illegally monitored. That's why it goes both ways. I fully recognise that a secret service may be needed, but I think that this criticism raises the question of how we can ensure that this intelligence service does not also develop into a kind of state in the state, where people start undermining the security of their citizens, by mass surveillance and industrial espionage. This is also an attack on the security and security of both citizens and societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181524	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181525	But it is also a number of considerations which mean that we are here today dealing with a legislative proposal to use the most powerful tool in the toolbox in relation to studies, namely to set up a commission of inquiry. Fortunately, there is a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who support this, because it is the way to find out these conditions in a way that preserves confidentiality, so that we maintain security and at the same time examine the issues of which criticism has been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181558	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181602	Thank you for your speech to the Minister. Another clue which we will also have to pursue, in addition to this committee of inquiry, and which is also referred to in the legislative proposal itself, are the conditions around here, among other things. the whistleblower system and revision of the FE law, and it would probably also be natural to look at the PET law as well. Is the Minister willing, when we look at the other things, the other clue beyond this, to see whether this is the right way in which the supervision of the intelligence services is now referring to the government, or should we play with the idea that, for example, they referred to the Control Committee instead? Will the Minister be involved in discussing this further on in this other track, as you might call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181648	I really think we should go very openly to that discussion. A need to reconsider the FE Act has been identified. We are already faced with a revision of the PET law, and we can take this in the same hurry, and it is, of course, embedded in supervision and the future role of supervision. This is a work that we can actually start on now, for example. to gather experience from other countries on how supervision has been worked together there, etc. in this context. I also believe that we will be well-helped if we make sure that the results of the Commission of Inquiry, which we have now, can be included in that work. But openness to future construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181738	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181739	After all, it is no secret that when you look at other countries with which we usually compare ourselves and look at their supervision, they have a little more powers than the Intelligence Supervisory Authority has. Among other things, you can... See a little more about spies and other things like that. I just want to know whether the Minister is already wondering whether there are any other lessons we could learn from other countries in this regard, or where the Minister is in relation to the things that apply, also in terms of extending the competences of the Intelligence Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181808	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181809	In fact, I go very unbiased to that task. I just think it is important to bring in experience from abroad, and I also think it is important to see what the Commission of Inquiry we have now set up might achieve, because I believe that the two elements will have an impact on how it will be relevant to knit supervision together in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181827	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201022181843	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 23 October 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
