ParlaMint-DK_20200812100008	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100012	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100026	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100048	Thank you for that, President. It's good to see the President and good to see you all. After coming from vacation, many of us here are the first time today, and some of us have had to get used to sleeping in our apartments again and not sleeping with our family, but that's the way it is, and now we're back in work clothes, and that's super good. I have also just heard that some people have worked very hard this summer, and that is so different according to the rapporteur's styles. But now we're on it. What we are talking about today has just been said by the President. Since corona seriously hit our country and we all somehow met the seriousness of this disease, we have all stood side by side in relation to the problems it has caused. We have all tried to avoid the disease and to prevent it spreading throughout society, and we have all tried to minimise the risk of it causing damage to society, because we have looked after each other. The whole part I think we all recognize. We have tried to take care of them and thousands of jobs through a host of aid packages for companies and, above all, employees, which have also succeeded. At the same time, we have had to ensure a sound re-opening of society. Now we are in the situation where, despite everything we have done, there are many companies that are very, very difficult, and many people who have lost their jobs. Our task now is to minimise the crisis and ensure that fewer people lose their jobs, and that is why we must now get the wheels moving. We should not stop looking after each other, because corona is still among us, but we must do the things we usually do and spoil ourselves and each other, as we can now in everyday life. This will, of course, help to keep shops and large parts of our businesses going and ensure that many people will be able to keep their jobs. That is why we are in this Chamber today proposing that employees who, because of the new holiday law, have frozen holiday money will receive the first 3 weeks of holiday money, i.e. the money they have earned from 1 September 2019 to March 2020. Many people are probably wondering why we are now in favour of the payment of holiday money from the frozen funds, since we have so far held to the tripartite decision taken on the holiday law by the social partners. For what was so important to the parties, and not least to the Social Democratic Party at the time, was that the payment of the holiday money should not have to empty the boxes in the companies, so the rest of the holiday money should not be paid until people left the labour market. But the state is now going in and ensuring that employees can get their holiday money paid now, after which the state will get the money back when they leave the labour market. This will mean that companies will not lose money, but can continue to concentrate on developing and getting through the crisis as well as possible. There are also more people who have come to me and have said that they would rather have the money paid out later in life, which they are also entitled to in relation to the holiday law, and that is why I think it is right, very good, that it is a free choice. You can go in and apply for the money to be paid out. And I really hope that there will be many who will do so, that many will accept the offer, spend the money and help set the wheels in Denmark up and get Denmark as well as possible through the crisis. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100416	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100428	Thank you. The system of holiday allowances receivable was created to prevent companies from being drained of liquidity by paying one year's extra holiday money to all employees at once during the transition to a simultaneous holiday. Until now, it has been the intention that holiday allowances should be paid to employees only when they reached retirement age, and that was also the position of the Left when back in February we discussed the citizens' proposal for precisely the payment of the frozen holiday money. Now, as you know, the world looks quite different. As companies cannot afford to be drained further of liquidity, the State should be responsible for paying out holiday allowances to employees and then levying the amount from companies as employees reached retirement age. That is what the bill we have here today is about. In the Left we think the situation should be taken into account that the Danes should have the opportunity to have all their frozen holiday money paid. The Danish economy is having a hard time, and that is why the last 2 weeks will have to come with us when we meet this autumn to discuss further measures that can help to get the wheels back on track and create growth. After all, the first three weeks of holiday money contribute some 39 billion. kr., which comes into circulation, and my request is that you actually use the money to create growth in the Danish economy and thus also create more jobs, so that more of the unemployed can have a good future with a job and can support themselves and theirs. But, of course, the Left supports this bill, because it is better than nothing, and we look forward to the forthcoming discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100645	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812100654	Thank you for that, President. With the developments that have taken place, it has to be said that things tend to change over time. The trialogue provided that the money should be frozen and paid only when you had to retire, but that time is almost over; it has changed quite quickly because of the coronavirus it was not included in the calculation. But as we see in the Danish People's Party, it is appropriate here to say: Now we must have paid the holiday money for the benefit of the Danish employees in order to get the economy back on track. What is good about it is that when the payment is made, it does not affect the provision of benefits or other income-dependent public benefits to the individual or other spouses and children and the early payment will not affect whether the person is entitled to benefit or the measurement of the benefit itself. It's one of the good things that's in this, so it doesn't affect it. Because there's also been some nervousness about whether it's supposed to be that way. Having said that, we must also note that the government and the parties that have agreed on this have agreed that the first three weeks should be paid and that it should be on application. This is not how we want it in the Danish People's Party. We think it is good to get the holiday money paid, but we just think it should be per. I would like to make it clear to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is an important step in the right direction. automatic. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party will also ask the Minister to see if there is any possibility of them being paid per year. automatics instead. And we will be tabling an amendment which we would ask the Minister to assist in drawing up, in relation to the payment of the money per person. automatic. In any case, it is also a great wish of employees that they should not sit and apply for them. I know it was said that it is so easy with NemID, but there are always some for whom it leaves so that they do not just get searched. And I believe that the problems that may be involved must be resolved. Another point is that we in the Danish People's Party also believe that all 5 weeks should have been included instead of dividing it up here. And it may well be, as was said, that they have not been paid, but then it could have been agreed that the first three weeks were now taken, and at the end of the year, the last two weeks were paid out. You didn't have to wait for that. This could have been agreed here, that is to say, you take the first three weeks and then the next two weeks when we come to the end of the year. It is a great thing that the government has found out that the money can be borrowed in advance, that is to say that the state can start in advance until the employer has paid the money. It was something that the Danish People's Party had also proposed, namely that the state could start, so that employees could get their money; it will then happen here. But when we look at it, I just think that employees deserve to get the money out. They have made a great deal of effort on the labour market here during the corona crisis. They have taken care of their jobs in the private labour market. We know that many people have been sent home, but all those who are in the private labour market have taken care of their jobs; people in the health system have taken care of their jobs and they have earned this money, so they have a little extra to do, and so they have strengthened their lives in this regard, instead of having to wait until they reach retirement age. So my request is that we then vote in favour of an amendment to pay the money per. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of an amendment to the effect that all five weeks should be paid instead of waiting for the negotiations. It may as well now be decided that the last two weeks will have to be paid. So with this call on these amendments, the Danish People's Party will of course support the proposal here, because we think it is a good thing that people can get the money paid out as soon as possible so that they can benefit the ordinary employee in terms of consumption and in terms of strengthening their lives. Many people have been in a bit of trouble here during the corona crisis, and they are also ready to make an extra effort on the consumer market if they get the money out here. And most people need them more now than when they reach retirement age. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal, but we hope that there will then be support for the amendments that come, at least what comes here from the Danish People's Party regarding payment per. automatic. I know that New Citizens have planned an amendment with all five weeks, which the Danish People's Party will of course also support at that time when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101221	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101225	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the money must, of course, be paid out because people deserve it. We must agree with the rapporteur because it is their own money, so it is very well deserved. That's the first thing. Then there is a suggestion that it should be done by automatic payout, and that actually makes me a little worried. What about the tens of thousands of Danes who are being pressured into paying top tax, which many of them would get out of if they waited to get them paid for later? These people are forcing Mr. Bent Bøgsted and Dansk Folkeparti to give more of their own money if you make an automatic payout. Wouldn't that be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101302	It's a good thing, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille is asking about this, because it is one of the issues that has been a great deal of debate. And it's a little mysterious that we hear FH's Lizette Risgaard say they have an agreement that it's 38%. in tax to be paid, and then it has suddenly been agreed that there can be top tax. That is why I would also like to call on the Minister to present that agreement. What's in that deal with FH? We haven't seen that. But if there's a clear agreement that it's 38%. Honey, that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101345	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101348	We cannot disagree on that part, because then we will not be able to get rid of the whole problem. But if we do not solve the problem of tax payments and make an automatic payment, as the rapporteur proposes, then we are really pushing a lot of people to pay more of their money in tax than they would otherwise have had to. And it might be that some of them would want to wait for the money to be paid out, so they didn't have to pay so much to the state. So it was just to try to moderate the proposal for automatic payout if it was to end up forcing people to pay more in tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101422	Yes, but I really think it is very simple, because if you have to apply, as it is now, for the money to be paid, then those who do not want to pay top tax can stop applying, and if you make automatic payouts, then those who are at risk of paying top tax can register that they do not want it paid out. So it goes the opposite way, that is to say, to cancel if you do not want it paid out. But the biggest problem is that many of the ordinary employees who do not pay top tax may not be in control of everything, and therefore they must have them paid out automatically. And then it can be done in such a way that you cancel if you don't want to get them paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101503	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101513	Thank you. In June, a broad majority in the Folketing agreed that employees could receive three weeks of savings in holiday allowances. It is an agreement that we in the Radical Left are very pleased with, because it can help stimulate the Danish economy, which has suffered from the corona crisis. Companies have also suffered during the corona crisis, which is why it is important for the State to go in and cofinance the payment of the three weeks of holiday money so that companies do not suffer further from the corona crisis. Some Danes do not want to receive the holiday money now, but only at a later stage in life. Volunteering has been quite essential for the Radical Left, and we are pleased that this is also part of the agreement and the bill. However, we hope that many people will accept the offer to receive three weeks of early holiday money and that they will use the holiday money so that it can get Danish economy going. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101635	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101639	Thank you. Both Lizette Risgaard and Dansk Metals Claus Jensen have been complaining that the government will not comply with the 38 per cent tax agreement, but now a lot of people will put into a top tax box. Before the summer holidays, the Radical Left was very sensitive to helping people so as not to have to hit the top tax limit in relation to the payment of their own money, but yesterday or the day before yesterday the rapporteur said that it did not mean so much to the Radical Left anyway. Why do Radical Left workers fail in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101716	The Radical Left is where we have always stood, namely guarding the Danish model, so that the agreements that have been reached also last. So at a time when we were given an indication that there should be a flat tax of 38%, we take FH and Dansk Metal's words for good goods and assume that it is a collective agreement that has that understanding. Well, it turns out, among other things. in a note from the government and an oral explanation from the Minister for Employment that this is not how it should be interpreted, and there we have no further reason to question the interpretation of the government and employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101800	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101801	After all, the Danish Metals Claus Jensen has been looking for the Minister of Employment to say that it is still his view that there was an agreement and he expects the agreement reached to be respected. But I have to understand that the Radical Left, agreement or not, is completely untouched by the fact that tens of thousands of people end up hitting a higher tax rate of their own money than they would have ended up with if they had waited to receive their holiday money until they retired. It doesn't touch Radical Left at all, which otherwise on its own website advertises that they want lower taxes, also at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101839	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101840	What Danish Metal may have of questions to the Minister for Employment, the Minister must answer for himself. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, in relation to taxation, we have always wanted progressive taxation, which also ensures social justice. We were somewhat surprised when, before the summer holidays, FH and Dansk Metal had a message that there should be flat taxes, but if it were an agreement, we would of course support it because we support the Danish model. It just turns out it's just their interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101912	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812101915	I am a little surprised, because when the Radical Left brings with it the argument that you support the Danish model and do not want to interfere in that agreement, you cannot vote for it here, because it is precisely going in and interfering with the agreement made by employers and workers. So the argument that we don't interfere doesn't hold up, because we do. And then the question is how, when we go in and get involved, we get involved. I understand that the Radical Left believes that it is quite reasonable for a person who earns DKK 600 000 to receive less in holiday money than a person who has earned DKK 500 000 because they are now hit by a top tax limit. Is it the opinion of the Radical Left that it is okay that people who have actually earned more went to work, made the money fair, actually get less out than anyone who has earned less? It's the reverse world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102002	What is the radical world is that the broadest shoulders must bear and that we are in favour of progressive taxation, that is to say, the same thing that meets all people who receive a paycheck every month; that is the tax system that we support, also in relation to the payment of holiday money. There is no reason why it should be different unless what the social partners and the government had agreed was different. It just turns out it wasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102034	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102036	So we can see that the Radical Left is completely indifferent to the 230,000 workers out there who now have to see that they are being cheated in this agreement, that they are being forced to pay more to SKAT than they would otherwise have liked. I find that sad, and I think it is part of the agenda which the Radical Left has unfortunately agreed on over the summer, in relation to the fact that it has not been possible to finance public spending on pensions and everything else. And this is just another corpse in the coffin that used to be called: radical financial responsibility. But now it has been analysed that the electoral segment is the immigrants and that it is worth more than the other, and then you take financial responsibility and put it in the coffin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102118	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102121	I've got 30 seconds from here, and sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen brings in both immigration and the pension issue here; I do not have time to answer that question. But that, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen should be able to see that the Radical Left is in favour of progressive taxation in order to ensure social justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102138	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102141	Thank you for that, thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for supporting us in getting the holiday money out. Many of us are very happy about that. So it will be a very good day when we manage to get the holiday money out to October. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur what kind of arguments the government has been able to use with the Radicals in order to make them understand that there is simply no need to change the top tax on these at least 100,000 who will pay top tax, which will then total 230,000. What exactly has the rapporteur been convinced of and confirmed in this argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102216	It's a little weird looking over at Mrs. Mona Juul through this screen, but we're still trying. The government has sent a note, which I think the Conservatives have also read, with an interpretation of how the agreement should be understood and that they 38 per cent. in the case of bankruptcies. That's one. The second is that we have been told by the Ministry of Employment that a change in tax will delay the payment of the holiday money. What we have of interest from the radical side is that this money is going to work as soon as possible, because we are in a situation that is also why we are dealing urgently with the legislative proposal where our economy needs to be stimulated, of course as much as possible, but also as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102314	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102315	So what if in committee we find that we can actually do the 3 weeks and perhaps even the 5 weeks without paying the top tax without delaying the process? Would the Radicals then help to look at it in committee and help to work for it, so that we actually get the stimulus that we all very much want, which means that there will be a lot more Danes who will draw money for precisely consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102342	I cannot imagine that, because that would mean that the government's interpretation of the agreement in relation to the Holiday Law Committee's report would change, and I have not heard that happen, and that is why we are standing where we have always stood, namely on the view that the Danish model must keep and that the agreements that were concluded must also keep.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102410	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we can thus move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102418	We need to get Danish economy going, but the state can't and mustn't run it all. Increased consumption draws demand on, and the result, among other things, will be more jobs, in addition to sweetening the lives of many employees' homes during a time of stress. Many agreements have been concluded which keep their hands on the companies and, therefore, the jobs. It's responsible, it's community mind, and it's expensive. That is why the agreement to pay some of the holiday money is a good one. It is, of course, the employees' own money that will only come into circulation a little earlier than initially agreed. In this context, it is so important for SF that there is no set-off in public services. That is also clear in the agreement. But there are a few areas where we are not quite safe yet. One is about those people who have already been taxed continuously during the year of earning, and it is, after all, hourly paid who are paying into the holiday account or another holiday fund. It seems difficult, almost impossible, to find out who it is and could make a compensation for them, but it is still away an area that we are somewhat concerned with. The second is that it is the citizen himself that we understand it lies until now at least • who must make Payout Denmark or the municipality aware that it must be seen away from early paid holiday money when receiving public benefits. There we could be concerned whether this is a task that these citizens are actually going to have followed. However, with the two comments that we will verify in committee work, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102602	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102606	Thank you. I am pleased with the rapporteur's speech that it is felt that the money should go out to the Danes and sweeten the lives of some people who may have lost their jobs or other. Will the SF support that all 5 weeks are included, if administratively it is possible to do fairly quickly and smoothly, so that all 5 weeks go out to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102625	Well, we're in favour of getting the five weeks out. Just as I have heard, there is still no objective argument for this to be possible at the moment. Among other things: Is there, of course, that the holiday money has not yet been earned, so paying some holiday money that has not been earned will also be a challenge, right? It is probably also very good to have a buffer in place so that, to the extent that too much money can be paid out in the first place, it is possible to make a set-off. So we think it might be a good idea to pay out the last two weeks, but we wait with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102658	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102700	Well, yeah, but we've come so far this year that we have a pretty good estimate of how much money comes in, and that's why you can do those calculations. Then I wonder why you don't want to take all the money out. Because if you look at the economists, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and the others who come up with these forecasts of how the economy will look, then we will not suffer in the second quarter, but we will suffer in the third quarter and perhaps also a little in the fourth quarter. However, if we look into 2021, there is actually a broad consensus that there will be quite strong growth in society again. So, it's now here and now that there's a need for the money and the thing about keeping them a little bit, because it may be that we may need them later, isn't it such a strange pocket money policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102736	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102740	Well, it's no use paying out holiday money that hasn't been earned either. Well, that is the challenge we face, regardless of the fact that I think it is a good idea to pay out the last two weeks. How can we pay out money that has not actually yet been earned and made accounts for? So I think it is reasonable to say that we are paying out money that people actually have So, with that reservation, the SF is in favour of paying out the two weeks, but we will do so in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102804	Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102805	Thank you. I could not help making a small comment now in relation to it by between 3 and 5 weeks, for the first time I heard that we could not pay all five weeks because we had not registered it in the companies, I called five companies on the way home. That's not a lot, but it was both big and small, and I've followed it up afterwards. And there are no companies I have talked to that don't say: we'll find out, we'll estimate it, of course we'll just make sure of that. That is why I am also thinking: let us now show a tiny amount of flexibility, because that is exactly what companies want. They want to pay the holiday money because they come back as consumption. Could one imagine that it could be part of the further work here until Monday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102846	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102848	Yes, that is, everything is possible, and SF will always enter into a dialogue about whether it could be done, but now I am burdened by having actually attended the meetings of the Ministry of Employment, and there is no indication that it can be done in a proper way yet. And I myself also think that the idea of paying holiday money that has not been earned may just be a little advanced. But, of course, as Mrs Mona Juul says, if there is any way for the Ministry to present a responsible way of doing this, then we are open to it. There is no indication of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102916	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102918	For goodness' sake: In the near future, they will actually be earned. Then it's just because we let companies spend some extra time reporting it. So the last little while before we actually start the payout, it is very, very little that they have to estimate. So I think it should be possible. So I would just like a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102936	Yes, but I can just make it clear that SF is in favour of getting paid in the last two weeks and that we have to do so at a time when it can be done in a way, so that you get paid the holiday money you have actually earned, and not some theoretical amount. However, as a starting point, we are in favour of paying them out when it can be done in a proper and responsible manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812102954	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, and then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103006	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is very pleased that the amendments proposed in the Atp Act are limited to the holiday payment only. We think this is important because the other things were not urgent legislation. So I would say that we are extremely satisfied that employees can now receive part of their holiday allowance due. We would like all five weeks to be paid and we therefore hope that an agreement can be reached quickly on the payment of the remaining two weeks. We are also pleased that the payment of paid holiday allowances by employees is not included in the allocation and calculation of dependent and other public benefits and that the payment does not mean deduction of any benefits. This is an important issue, but we think it is wrong that we do not want to correct the previous payments and reports of holiday funds, which in some cases have led to a reduction in income-related benefits. The Minister must correct me if I have understood it wrong, but it seems to me that it is asking people very differently, and I will in any case ask a number of questions. Firstly, we would like to know how many employees the Minister expects will use the scheme to withdraw their holiday money, and secondly, how many have already been paid and have therefore been offset. We would like an overview of how the Ministry and the Minister perceive the size of these matters. Then it is also fine if we take the detail of the fact that the payments of the holiday receivable do not affect the calculation of the su. After all, a lot of people now have jobs and earn holiday money. But we cannot understand why employers, including public employers, are not allowed to continue to pay the holiday money, at the same time as they report the employees' claims to the fund, and that they are not allowed to make voluntary payments, but that they should also include interest being charged to employers for the months that go by before they are allowed to pay. It is also a little strange, but in general there are quite a lot of bureaucratic, complicated rules in this undertaking, and this is particularly evident when we make urgent legislation on it. We basically see the system adopted as an agreement on long-term credit to all companies, and we foresee a bureaucratic chaos without equals, for example. when companies go bankrupt. Isn't that about... 2,000 companies going bankrupt every year? I think it is. This is especially true for those industries where business change is quite normal and where you can therefore have up to five, eight, ten employers in one year. There's really gonna be something to count on and check up on. For us, it is important to get it all out of the world so that we could imagine that the whole of this very bureaucratic system would be phased out over one or other number of years, for example. Five years, as we have proposed in the past, but we can of course negotiate more if it is to be. We also believe that it is a weakening of the legal certainty of employees when they are paid back, even when they have received holiday money in good faith and have not been aware that they were not entitled to them. Similarly, it is also a serious weakening of employees' legal certainty that they cannot complain about the Fund's decision. But the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the proposal. We have always believed that it is people's own money and that therefore they must be paid out the sooner, the better. So we hope that the negative provisions of the proposal can be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103349	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103400	Thank you. The Corona virus has put our society to a serious test, including our economy. Fortunately, the Danish economy is strong. This is not least due to the many civil reforms that have been made over time. But even a strong economy like ours can feel the consequences of a pandemic like corona. Thousands have lost their jobs and been on wage compensation, while others are still looking into an uncertain future. That is why it is important that we ensure that taxes are reduced as much as possible. In this respect, this agreement is a good step on the way. For the Conservative People's Party, it has been very important that companies should not face liquidity problems in connection with payments, and we therefore welcome the state's inter-funding of one-off payments. Although basically a good deal, it is not perfect. It is no secret that we would have liked all five weeks of frozen holiday money to have been paid. In addition, we would have liked the payment of holiday money not to result in an unfair top tax spank. We will take that up again when we have to negotiate on the last two weeks of holiday money in the autumn. In addition, I note that Danske Rederier, Maskinmestrenes Forening and Dansk Metal propose, in the consultation note to this bill, that shipping companies have access to the same loan option for the payment of three fifths of the paid holiday money during the transitional period. And I understand from the Minister's reply that this should be dealt with in a different context. I hope that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible. The Conservative People's Party is pleased to be able to participate in this agreement, where we both boost the recovery of the Danish economy and where we allow families to keep some more of their own money. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103612	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103623	It is with a slightly mixed feeling that you are standing here, because the proposal to pay the frozen holiday money is, after all, a new bourgeois proposal. This was something that we brought up as far back as March, and we are glad that, after the employers and trade union movement went out and supported it, too slowly, such an agreement spread in the Folketing that it was actually perhaps a good idea. It is the citizens' money; there is no reason why they should not have it. And that's why we were very opposed to going in and doing pocket money policy like this and saying: yes, yes, you need some of the money, but you can't just get them all, the rest we keep straight. We think this is a wrong approach and that is why, of course, we are going to table an amendment to the effect that we should have all the money paid out; this is the time we are dealing with the legislative proposal. In New Citizens we also have the view that it is a matter of getting the money to work, and that is why we have also had a proposal that they should be paid tax-free. For then we are completely beyond this problem, the ruthless problem where people who may have risen in wages and now get into top tax increases are actually paid less than people who have a lower income • something that is quite monstrous and that we cannot accept in New Citizens. So it's a little mixed emotion we're standing here. We will, of course, be voting in favour of the legislative proposal itself, but we will also be tabling a number of amendments which we hope to receive support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812103813	The draft law as such is quite fine, and there is no doubt that we can now see that there can be opposition to three of the five weeks of frozen holiday money being paid out. There should be no doubt that I am completely in line with those who have said that it would be good if we did so for all five weeks. The issue that has also taken me into account is the issue of taxation in relation to this. There have been statements from both Lizette Risgaard and from Dansk Metals Claus Jensen about this, that there should be an agreement or an understanding that there should be a tax on the 38%. First of all, it sounds both incredibly sympathetic to a tax of 38%, and it will also free up to 100,000 Danes to risk going into the top tax area when they receive their own money. You have to remember that many of these people, if the money is still frozen, will get them paid at a lower tax than top tax if they just wait. A large proportion of them actually do, and that is to say, there is a risk of forcing some people to pay a higher tax than they would otherwise have had to, by seeing the agreement in the way the government chooses to do, and not in the way that large parts of the trade union movement have been out to say it was agreed. I do not think it is particularly appropriate for the trade union movement and employees to be driven over in this way. When we have to adopt all sorts of strange legislative proposals, the Socialists are always the first to abuse the trade union movement by saying that this is an argument in itself, whatever it may think of anything, but when two of the trade union representatives go out and say that there is an agreement, we are just told that we can forget about that, because it does not exist at all. And when they maintain it, the government just insists that it's just something they've made up. What the hell's the point? I have to say that I trust both Lizette Risgaard and Claus Jensen very much in this matter and have no basis for suspecting them of running a campaign for anything other than what they think was the spirit of the agreement that has been reached. So I think it's a shame that the government chooses not to live up to it. Even if there is no agreement, it is still very strange that parties that claim to represent Danish employees choose to go out and say: Well, yes, but it may well be that you can have your own money now, but then you have to pay a higher tax than you would otherwise have come to at a later date. After all, it is those who have not saved up as much as others have done that will be affected by it, compared with those who have saved up a great deal. That's very unusual. And I actually think that no matter what one might think about income tax in general because there we may disagree, and there should be no doubt that I am in favour of them being lower, but there are probably some of the other parties who are in favour of them being as they are or higher, and peace be with it then there should be a reasonable thing to say that no one should risk paying a higher tax on their own holiday money if they are paid out now than if they wait to have them pronounced at the time it was originally intended. At least one should be able to look into that and see to it. But why settle for the minimum, why not listen to the trade union movement, why not listen to the Danish employees, why not listen to Lizette Risgaard, why not listen to Claus Jensen and then just make the flat tax of 38%. On this? Or you could, if nothing else, just say that there is no top tax on it. It will both be beneficial in terms of getting the money out to work, it will strengthen the credibility of the government and parliament in relation to the trade union movement, and it will be fair to Danish employees. So everyone should really be happy. So let us now look at this tax issue in a serious and proper way to the delight of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104244	No brief remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104257	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for the comments. As many rapporteurs have said, with this bill, a large proportion of all employees will have the opportunity to receive holiday money as early as October. It is all the employees who have saved holiday money from 1 September 2019 to 31 March 2020. The Corona crisis has had a major impact on the daily lives of the Danes over the past six months; all because we had to fight against the infection, and we must continue to do so. Unfortunately, the crisis has also been of great importance to the Danish economy and, of course, in particular to the world economy. There is therefore a need to think about new solutions in order to get the economy back on track. I am glad that back in June there was broad agreement among the Danish Parliament's parties on several measures to stimulate the Danish economy. One of these is to allow employees to apply for up to three weeks of frozen holiday money as early as October. The payment will not affect income transfers, etc. In this way a large part of us gets more money between our hands, and expectably a large part of the money will go to consumption. In conclusion, the draft law amends the ATP Act so that ATP can manage a recapitalisation fund as agreed in the same rebirth. The attentive reader will have noted that the other amendments relating to the ATP included in the draft law when it was sent in consultation have been deleted following a discussion with the parties behind the agreement. I can tell you that I expect the government to put forward legislative proposals on this in the next session. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104441	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104458	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104512	In my speech a moment ago on the issue of the payment of frozen holiday money, I used a lot of words to tell you about the difficult challenges we have all experienced while corona has hit the country and the whole world. Therefore, I will not use so many words this time on that, but repeat that we are at an important stage in which we must both ensure that fewer people are infected, as corona is still away from us, but where we also have to go through the crisis and out on the other side as quickly as possible. The crisis has been very hard for many companies and their employees. I think we all know someone who has been fired, or a business owner who has huge problems. This summer when I was walking around the town where I live, Grenå, I could see that the trade went well, that the restaurants were in progress and various tourist attractions were also in progress, and that's really, really good. But I also met a number of concerns among them, but also among ordinary people, who still thought a little bit about what the future might offer. That is precisely why it is so important that we from Christiansborg do everything we can to get the wheels going or at least give them extra impetus. The way we do it best is that we Danes spend money, shop in local shops, go out to eat, go to the cinema, use various cultural opportunities, or whatever we think we want, and make sure that the money gets out to work. Therefore, the right thing to do right now is to ensure that ordinary Danes will just experience something together; buy a little extra for themselves and their families. And this proposal here is essentially the same as the last one: to get the wheels going and make sure that this happens. That you choose here to give people on a transfer income a lump sum of DKK 1,000. is precisely because we also know that it is typically those who want to spend the money. It is they who do not already have too much in everyday life that will take the opportunity to pamper themselves and their family a little. This will mean that they will use exactly this money that comes to them and that will benefit both local and Danish companies. Social democracy is very pleased that a majority could agree on this, and we are naturally looking forward to seeing the impact of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104729	There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104732	I just want to ask whether the Social Democrats think that this is the best way to stimulate the economy and create jobs that we need, or whether there could have been other tools that could have been used, for example. have made some tax cuts and other things that for the same money would have given a bigger so-called bang for the buck, i.e. greater gain than what you get here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104756	I don't think there's only one model that can do that. I think there are a lot of models. It can also be seen that the majority of the parties who were sitting and negotiating here on 5 June, where I did not sit at the table myself, made various packages. We've just been through someone with vacation money. Some funding funds for some companies have been going through. I do not think that there is one solution that can change everything and make sure that everything gets started. There are several solutions. This is one among many. But I also have no doubt that if people who normally do not have a lot of money get $1,000, which to them can be a lot of money, they will go out to spend it, and local shops and other things will greatly appreciate it. You might want to go down and have something to eat in a restaurant that you haven't usually been able to. We know that the restaurants have suffered a lot in this time. I therefore believe that this is at least a step along the way, but I am happy to admit that there are more, and that is why the parties have made several packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104859	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104900	It was a long smear. Of course, if you get some money you didn't expect, you might spend it. We will not disagree on that. My question was quite specific: is this the most effective way of creating jobs and growth in society, or could we have spent the 1.9 billion? kr. in a better way, so that we had created more jobs and more growth in society? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104926	I tried to do it a little longer because then I was hoping that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen understood, but I'll try to make it a little shorter. This is one of many ways we can get the economy going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812104944	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have explained very well the content of the draft law, that is to say that the draft law introduces an opportunity for beneficiaries to receive a one-off grant of DKK 1,000, which hopefully can contribute to domestic consumption and the Danish economy. Many benefit from this, including our elderly. The one-off grant is one of the stimuli contained in the broad agreement we reached before the summer holidays on phasing out aid packages, stimuli initiatives and export initiatives, an agreement which, as I said, was reached on 15 June this year. In the negotiations on the agreement, the Left fought particularly to ensure the very challenging business community and Danish exports, which can be predicted a bleak future. Fortunately, the agreement contains many good initiatives that can help our companies, the self-employed and Danish exports. Then there is the one-off grant of DKK 1000, which is also part of the agreement and which very well illustrates that politics is sometimes the art of compromise. Overall, we welcome the agreement reached on 15 June and, as I said, it contained both the export package, the summer package and the strengthening of international tourism marketing by 2020. Against this background, the Left will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105123	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments, and we shall therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105140	Thank you for that, President. This bill has been presented. It is a large group of people who will receive grants of DKK 1,000. In the period since it was negotiated, there has been a lot of talk about it, and in the course of the negotiations this proposal was one of the things that made the Danish People's Party abandon the negotiations precisely because many refugees and immigrants would be paid out too, and we could not do that. We had also proposed that we should have some extra aid for pensioners in the form of a tax-free allowance for the rest of the year, but it was not granted either. On the basis of what caused us to leave the negotiations, in other words that a great deal was paid out to refugees and immigrants here, the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105303	Thank you, President. For the Radical Left, there is no doubt that we in Christiansborg must take action to strengthen the Danish economy, which has suffered a break as a result of the closure of the Corona crisis. The groups in society that have the very least are traditionally also those who spend the money they may get between their hands, and I understand that, because some of our services are at a very low level, among other things. with the introduction of an integration allowance and a ceiling on cash benefits, which is why the Radical Left is backing a tax-free one-off grant of DKK 1.000. It can both boost consumption and thus the economy, but it can also help some of our vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105359	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105405	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can explain whether people on transfer have got more or less to themselves because of corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105413	I'm sorry, I didn't catch the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105419	Well, I'll repeat it then. I'm just asking directly whether people on transfer income have received more or less money because of this corona virus that has been in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105434	If the question is whether the 1,000 kroner. is 1,000 kroner. more, compared to what you've had, the answer is: Yes, you've got more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105438	Although there have been two questions, I regard the first as a repetition, so please, we can give it 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105441	It is because public services have not been changed because of corona. If you are on cash benefits, you will receive the same payment now as you received in March. So that's why they're 1,000 kroner. Actually, just $1,000 you give extra to people without being affected by a crisis. There is just the question: is this the most effective way to create consumption in society? And there's the answer no. There are far more effective ways to create growth and consumption in society than by spending money in that way. So why is it that Radicals are again choosing a solution that is not the best and most economically sound solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105515	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105519	But as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is money that goes to, among other things. a group of people that we do not think have enough in their level of performance in advance. In addition, it is a group of people who want to make use of the money they get between their hands, thus increasing private consumption, and Danish economy is also being boosted. These are two essential arguments for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105541	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105549	It is a small amount of money that we allocate to people who already have little to rustle with. But 1,000 kroner. by hand can help to close a few gaps in the daily economy and give a little bit of air. The amount is not large, but we can be sure that most of the money goes directly to consumption, thereby helping to get demand going, and here they can almost 2 billion. kr. It's a good feeling. In the hearings we also see the support of everyone, from the academics to the Mother's Help, but I must also say that I understand Mother's Help very well when, among other things, they... writes: Mother's help therefore unreservedly supports proposals for a one-time grant. Among the Mother's Help target groups, however, there is for many a greater need, such as the one-off financial grant of DKK 1,000. does not compensate to an adequate extent. Especially among single parents who have had one or more children at home during the corona crisis, the economy is burdened with extra costs, among others. food, diapers and children's activities, so the government should therefore also focus on how the economically most fragile families manage if the closure of society becomes a reality again, and the government should pay attention to the duration of the temporary family allowance as well as the exemption for the 225-hour rule. The latter two measures are crucial for the economy of vulnerable families of children. SF completely shares Mother's Help Ninna Thomsen's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105735	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105743	We are pleased that this bill has given thought to those people who do not have much money. I'm gonna give you 1,000 kroner. tax-free for consumption, and this money should not be offset anywhere. This has been important to us, and that is why we are pleased with that part. A thousand kroner. It is not a large amount, and it is not a secret that we would have liked to have seen that the amount was considerably higher. For us, it should not be seen as a fucking bullshit compared to the poverty-building reforms that have taken place in the past. On the contrary, it is actually an important change in the course of economic crisis management, compared to if we compare with the way in which the economic crisis was dealt with after the last financial crisis. There is no doubt, however, that the amount is warm and that the recipients can spend every single penny and that a large part of the one-off subsidies will be converted into consumption by some of those who, in relation to what we see with climate impact, have the lowest consumption and who will be able to help the Danish economy. The Enhedslisten can, of course, support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812105903	Thank you. The proposal is part of the economic rescue package that we entered back in June together with a broad majority in the Folketing. The aim of the package was to boost our hard-ridden economy and to hold hands under jobs. This was so much needed, and basically the agreement was both good and necessary. As part of the agreement, a tax-free one-off grant of DKK 1,000 will be granted. to beneficiaries of benefits. I do not think anyone can be in any doubt that the increased transfer income is not an idea that has grown in our backyard. The measure is part of an overall compromise, on which we, on the other hand, had a solid conservative impression by receiving 3 out of 5 weeks of holiday money paid to Danish employees. The overall agreement was much better for the Danish economy than if we had not been there. The Conservative People's Party supports the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110001	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. There are no brief comments. And that's why it's now, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110008	A dangerous move is taking place in the Danish parliament on the handling of the whole corona situation and Danish economy. From making policies that were supposed to deal with a crisis, politics is now being made into a crisis. The best example is today, when the radical rapporteur said: we want to increase benefits for some in general, so here we just saw our cut to give them some more money. Away is the idea of what is best for the Danish economy and what is best to do in the current situation; you think party politics into it. It is a slip, and it also means that we in the Parliamentary Assembly must deal with the things that are coming in a different way. One can say that it may have become everyday in the Folketing again. And I cannot help thinking that the same parties that would not help to pay people's own money, i.e. the frozen holiday money, tax-free, have no problem paying out $1,000. to people on transfer income tax-free. Once again, the people who are on the labour market and earn their own money are being discriminated against and the people who live off other people's; they must have the money tax-free while those who work have to pay taxes. I had hoped and had the expectation that the Danish Parliament, in order to deal with a crisis, would bring into play the tools that were best at dealing with a crisis. And when we spend 1.9 billion. kr. This is not the best way to stimulate the economy; it is not the best way to create jobs. There are a wide range of tools that would provide more so-called bang for the buck. That is why what is happening in Christiansborg is purely politics, where some parties would like to give more money to them on transfer income, and that is the way it is. We cannot and will not support this in the new citizens, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110233	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110247	Thank you for the floor, President, and many thanks to the rapporteurs for their comments. With the bill here, all citizens who received a dependent allowance in April receive a tax-free one-off allowance of DKK 1,000. Once the subsidy will be paid in October. Once the grant is written into the story of how Denmark has tackled the crisis with the covid-19. When we closed down society in March in the attempt to combat the infection, we faced an uncertain future. No one could know how the spread of infection would develop and whether the health services could keep up. But the Danes stood together, kept their distance, and followed the recommendations of the authorities. And when we compare ourselves with other countries, so far we have got through the crisis graciously. Now we are in the process of reopening society, and we are doing so together. We all have the credit for the fact that the infection was contained, and that is why everyone should also be involved in relaunching the economy. And that is precisely at the heart of the bill here: everyone must have the opportunity to contribute to stimulating the Danish economy, including those who do not have so much air in the economy. For there is experience that those with the lowest incomes have a greater consumer propensity. This means that when we provide a tax-free one-off grant to benefit recipients, it is with the expectation that the majority will be translated into private consumption and it will help to kickstart Danish economy. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110417	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110419	I would like to ask the Minister if he can confirm that there were other economic measures that could be used for 1.9 billion. kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110437	So, I have no doubt that all the way through since March, during the many different stages of negotiations to stimulate the Danish economy, to hold hands under employment, etc. has been discussed many different palettes of tools. And many of the tools have also been put into use in connection with this agreement, where the one-off grant was agreed, including for example. the very large tax rebates that have been given as part of the deduction • the so-called FPU allowance, just to mention another example. So, yes, there are definitely other tools. If we also think this is a good idea, then it is, as I said at the end of my speech, because we want money to be put into the market economy and into consumption as quickly as possible. There we know that people with very low incomes have a consumption propensity of approx. 70%, and we think that will be a good tool • among many others to support Danish economy in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110539	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110541	I fully acknowledge that. I just asked if you could confirm that there were tools that were more effective than what you have chosen to use here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110552	At any rate, I can confirm that there are other tools, both tools that have not been decided or agreed to use, but also other tools that have been agreed to use. Of course there is. After all, this is a fundamental balance in terms of how we want to restore the economy and which parts of the economy need stimulus as soon as possible, and it is those parts of the economy that may also have been most affected by restrictions and decommissioning. And that is where we need consumers to start spending money as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110623	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200812110640	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 17 August 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
