ParlaMint-DK_20200529100028	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 178 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the advance of the sunset clause in the law on measures against infectious and other communicable diseases) Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 179 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a biodiversity law. ) The title of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200529100100	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 June 2020. Then that is the reason for the question, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529100119	Thank you. 81% of the Danes are active on social media. Facebook is one of the biggest. Almost all political organisations and associations are active on Facebook, and the media play a very important role in public debate. But there are things you have to talk about, and then there are things that are forbidden. If you do, you'll be shut out of Facebook or have your comments deleted. Hizb ut-Tahrir, the Islamist organization, may in turn be present on Facebook. That's weird. It is also strange that Facebook deletes lots of legal debating material • 40%. according to the Think Tank Justitia, and without justification. It's not okay. Facebook's treatment of the debate is similar to that of the Soviet Union, where the people you did not like were turned into non-persons. We cannot live with that in Denmark. We therefore believe that the government must act and ensure that social media respect the kind of freedom of expression that we have in Denmark. That is what we are debating today, and I look forward to hearing the opinion of the thing very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529100232	Thank you to Mrs Krarup, and then it is the Minister for Justice for answering.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529100244	Thank you for the floor, and let me start by stressing that this is a relevant and important debate and a difficult debate, by the way. Social media are private companies, and because they are private companies, they have a large margin to define the rules and conditions that apply to the content that is distributed to the public through their platforms. The relationship between a user on the social media and the social media as such is regulated as the basis of the agreement, contract, understanding that is between them. And we all know about the fact that then you have to scroll through and put a finger on accepting everything, and none of us gets it read, but that is the foundation of the relationship between the individual user and the social media, and you can safely call that a wrong relationship. The content moderation, which is also the one mentioned earlier by Mrs Krarup, has been discussed, and in my view it is also an important debate and one of those that we have to deal with. Because there are some questions of principle at stake here: Does everyone have the right and the right to express their opinions on all platforms? There may be a lot of opinions on this, but if we now transfer the logic of the ordinary media, then it is not the case that, as Members of Parliament or citizens, we have the right and the right to have a debate in the newspaper in which we want it printed. It is private media that they decide as a starting point what they want to bring and what they do not want to bring. Similarly, social media also lays down rules about what may lie or what is taken down from their platforms. Therefore, it will also be an innovation, at least if you compare them with the traditional media, if social media are to be forced to have content on their platforms that they do not want to have. And that leads me on to another important point that I have made in the past when we discuss the issue here in the Folketing, namely that we are dealing with an area that has grown up without us, as legislators, taking action and setting a clear framework. In reality, it can be said that there is an area in which market forces in unregulated relations have been allowed to set the framework. In fact, it can be said that this is a very good example of the market being a lousy master, but a good servant. And when it gets so topical here, it is because we do not get around it and it was also a bit in what Mrs Marie Krarup said before that social media has revolutionized the way we communicate. Well, if it was something entirely niche-like, you could define it as irrelevant. But it's just relevant. It fills so much in the debate at home that one cannot say: well, it is just a private relationship, so let it lie, we as a society do not have to interfere in that. In many ways it has become much easier to participate in the public debate, but we have also seen a battle page in that it has become easier to express, for example. illegal material, share illegal material, and this very thing about sharing illegal material or leaking illegal material is one of the things we need to take a life tag with. That is why we are facing this fundamental challenge: how should we respond to the impact of social media here on our society and on our democratic conversation? For example, we are going to have to do something like this. embracing the intolerant who want to overthrow our democracy and should we put our backs on everything that comes from that edge? Or should we not take action to safeguard our democracy? Well, this may be the most important thing I'm going to say today, so if you don't listen to anything else, please listen to exactly this: Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of tolerance. If we allow the unlimited tolerance to apply even to those who are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the violent attacks of the intolerant, the tolerant will be crushed and with them the tolerance. I think I'm going to say this again, because I feel at least the same way that you just have to let it sink in for a second. Listen to this: Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of tolerance. In other words, if we are merely unlimited tolerant, at some point it will go beyond the tolerance itself. And then he continues: if we allow the unlimited tolerance to apply even to those who are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the violent attack of the intolerant, the tolerant will be crushed and with them the tolerance. So if we allow tolerance to go too far, it will be at the expense of tolerance. It is a central dilemma which has become, it might be said, more relevant with the introduction of social media. I believe that, as a democracy and as a society, we have an entirely legitimate interest and right to protect ourselves from what threatens our open and free democracy. I think most people will agree with me that content moderation has an important function, for example. in relation to the removal of terrorist-related material. So it is quite relevant and a very important discussion how we deal with the challenges we face, just with the opposite sign in relation to what is the starting point for the question that has been asked today. In principle, I am not in favour of unlimited tolerance, and I agree with Karl Popper, and in concrete terms I can give plenty of examples where it has to be said that it is not fair to have unlimited tolerance here, nor am I in favour of unlimited tolerance if we compare it with other areas of society, for example. the traditional media. The challenges I have outlined have led the government to start work on trying to identify the issues associated with social media. It is our view that social media should meet with demands that reflect the importance they have in society today and, in my opinion, that is perhaps the second most important thing that I will say today. It is the government's view that this issue calls for regulation. There is a need for regulation of social media. However, as I have already said, this is a complex issue which requires thorough consideration. We need to think carefully so that we have a regulation that has the effect that we want. After all, the problem has undoubtedly an interface with freedom of expression, which is a cornerstone of our society, and that is why we must ensure that we strike the right balance between regulation and the right to express ourselves. It also has cutting surfaces for a lot of other things. This is super complex, but my approach is that if we want to preserve the free society we have, there is a limit to tolerance. We need to regulate social media, given the social impact of social media. This is deadly difficult, it is difficult in terms of content, because there are some difficult political balances that need to be made, and it is deadly difficult because it fills so much. This is so important for the debate we are going to take. I very much hope that we will be able to put forward a legislative proposal when we get to the next session. We're in a situation where we're working on this inter-ministerially to see how we can make the regulation. I want to make this plain because it is true: I simply do not know where to put the cut yet. I know something needs to be done, but I don't know exactly what needs to be done. I have a feeling how I think it should be done, but I don't know exactly. I have some opinions, but there is simply a need for reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101321	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is now a possibility that the general rapporteurs can each have one question for the Minister. The first person to ask for it is Mrs Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101331	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the excellent Poppercitat. I would have liked the Socialists to have understood the meaning of that quotation in the past, because then we would have avoided the terrible situation we are facing today with a very large group of Muslims who will not accept and are not tolerant of Danish open democracy. So if we had understood from the outset that we should not be tolerant of intolerance, of social democracy, we would probably have avoided the situation we are facing today. But that is not what we are discussing today, first and foremost. We need to discuss social media. Facebook's got a monopoly status. The Minister referred to the fact that market forces are a good servant and a bad master, but the minimal state, theoretically, always has a requirement to crush the monopolies. Well, Facebook has a very special status here. So does the Minister not agree with me that something needs to be done about a social media that has a monopoly status?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101442	First to the first: Popper's thoughts pop out of a situation where he starts from the totally tolerant starting point, but experiences with the totalitarian systems of fascism, Nazism, communism that tolerance will kill the tolerant society. I also agree that the last element of totalitarian thinking that needs to be stopped is extreme Islamism, which is also a totalitarian way of thinking. The questioner came to say Muslims; I don't think the questioner thought I think she meant Islamists, extreme Islamists. So to what was at the heart of the question: yes, I think there is a need for regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101532	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101534	I would like to thank the Minister for the openness and honesty that this is difficult and a solution has not yet been found. I think it suits the Parliamentary Chamber and a government and a minister to put up the dilemma as it stands. So thank you for that. When we talk about tolerance, there is legal certainty. When you look at the regulation of Facebook, you might just run the risk of moving intolerance to someone other than Facebook, who now has that power away from the courts, away from the fundamental democratic rights of society, where you give a power. Because Facebook has with Instagram. When we put something outside the democratic framework, outside the democratic legal system, and make them judges of what must be expressed and what must not be expressed, then the power of tolerance has been transferred to those whom we cannot control and which we do not know about in their nature may also be intolerant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101642	That's right. I wonder if we can agree so broadly that when there is no regulation, it can lead to different things. But there are two things to which it can at least lead. One is that all kinds of content can be found, including something we do not want. We do not want the live streaming of terrorism; we do not want any announcements calling for violence against minorities. That's one thing. The second thing, then, is what is addressed here, namely that the content that is then removed is determined by enterprise policy and not by social or democratic considerations about what is relevant to have. And that is one thing to make a regulation that says what must be and what must not be, but it is also a question of whether there is transparency in relation to how it is done. So, if we were to regulate, we would have to create that framework, which we can do with social regulation and which we are missing at the moment, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101740	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101742	Thank you for that and thank you for a very nuanced and objective review of some complex dilemmas. I think I might be in a very similar position to the Minister. I would like to address this Karl Popper quote, because I will always be happy when someone has read up on some of the Austrian school's most important thinkers, i.e. whether this intolerance issue is something I would like to give a book with Friedrich Hayek, if it is a general interest of the Minister. Because you could say that there are little two types of intolerance. There is the type of intolerance that we have illegald, that is to say, the approval of terrorism and calls for violence, and what I know, and that removes Facebook to the best of its ability. So I really do not think that there is a need for regulation there. Then one should say that one regulates it by saying: Now do what you do in advance, just get better at it. However, there is an interesting question, and my question is not whether it should be regulated, but whether the Minister agrees that some of the intolerance expressed today is the type of intolerance that is intolerant of certain political positions. You have seen examples that Facebook removes comments about Tommy Robinson and right-wing types, with which I do not share value bases. But when they remove it, it's an expression of that left-wing tolerance towards some who just have different opinions from themselves. I would like to know whether the Minister agrees that even in a Karl Poppersk sense, they are intolerant in this respect, after all, of the left and not those who have the opinions that the left will censor and that Facebook in some cases censor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529101915	Without making it an Oxford meeting, I would like to thank you for the opportunity. I think there was a promise of a gift, a book, and I would love to read it, but what becomes Oxford-like, I don't have time for, to be honest now. For the sake of intolerance: where, of course, it is certain that this is a tolerance that will kill tolerance, if we say that violence is also allowed in this room, it is also allowed to use violence in the democratic debate. It is clear that we would say there: no, we must not strike at each other, for it would still be to tighten it up. So it would be regulated. Where this is going to be difficult is when you start calling for it, that is when we move around in the area where you do not use violence, but call for violence, that you suppress some attitudes by calling for violence, or that some people hold back their voices because they are afraid that it has reprisals. It is, of course, in the area where it can be said that it lies first and foremost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529102016	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the negotiations, and first of all it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529102032	Thank you, President. This winter, I attended a meeting in Copenhagen with the British freedomist and Islamist Tommy Robinson. My acquaintances posted their experiences on Facebook and posted pictures from the meeting. They were erased. Subsequently, I made a post myself, but it was not removed, even if it was the same content. But as I said, my acquaintance's listings were removed and their account closed for a period of time. In practice, therefore, there was discrimination, censorship and even censorship without any transparent justification. But Tommy Robinson was obviously a person that Facebook would like to see transformed into a non-person in the debate. Anyone other than the members of parliament should certainly not refer to him. The same week there was a debate in Deadline with the Danish head of facebook moderation. He could not give any reasons why something was removed from Facebook and anything else was not. It sounded as if it depended on what he himself thought was good tone and what kind of status the account holder had. This means that some people could take part in the public debate on Facebook and then some could not be allowed. Hizb ut-Tahrir has a facebook page where they advocate Islamism, but Tommy Robinson is a non-person. It shouts to the sky, and it warps public debate in a creepy and wrong way. This is among other things. this case, which has led me to raise this query debate, and the debate has become all the more relevant, because the Think Tank Justitia has just published the report "Digital freedom of expression and social media', where the report reveals that of all the comments that Facebook removes, 40%. It's perfectly legal. They just don't fall into Facebook's taste. Facebook has got a size and an impact that makes Facebook in practice as important as DR and TV 2. About 80%. of the Danes are active on social media and probably retrieves quite a lot of information for the public debate there. Facebook itself is largely the public debate. But also other social media, among others. Twitter, is of great importance in Denmark. But should we really allow significant opinion-forming media in Denmark to be censored in a way that allows only people with certain opinions to speak out? Should we accept that certain attitudes and people are made invisible because some anonymous taste judges do not like them? In the Danish People's Party we will not accept that politically correct editors work in the dark and push debaters with other opinions out of the public debate. The excuse for not doing anything about the problem is that these are privately owned companies that are not media in the traditional sense, and I understand that this can cause problems. However, as you know, problems exist to be solved, and when it comes to the free public debate, it is important to give room to those who do not violate the law. The Freedom of Speech Commission, which recently issued its report, has recommended greater openness and transparency on social media. The Commission proposes that the media should make clear what is the basis of content moderation and how it is practiced. The Commission therefore considers that the media should be required to ensure that the removal of content and possible blockage of profiles are accompanied by a justification and an authorisation of redress. I believe that this offer of a solution is serious and could have a positive effect. But it could also be imagined that an office as an Ombudsman of freedom of expression was created and that in other ways attention was sought to be paid to the problem of the in practice restricted freedom of expression and thus to combat it. I therefore hope that the government will act and address the problem, because the current situation is unsustainable. I shall therefore read out the following proposals for adoption by the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that social media play an increasingly important role in the everyday life of most people and undoubtedly have a number of positive qualities that promote public debate. However, the platforms also present challenges, including: in handling illegal content and in relation to freedom of expression, including when some use the platforms to threaten others to silence, or when content is moderated so narrowly by platform owners that there is in fact an unacceptable narrowing of freedom of expression. The Danish Parliament also notes that the issue of social media responsibility for content is complex and calls for regulation and is also linked to a number of questions of principle, including in relation to freedom of expression. Finally, the Danish Parliament notes that the major social media platforms must meet with demands, among others. for the removal of illegal content and for the justification and authorisation of redress by the removal of specific content and blocking of profiles. V 75).
ParlaMint-DK_20200529102551	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529102619	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the opportunity to discuss this very important issue today. And as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also just read out, it is a proposal for adoption which I think the whole parliament will end up supporting. This shows that it is therefore also something that concerns us, both as a parliament and as a people. We are at a time when social media are a huge news platform, that is, a communication platform, but also a news platform. To an increasing extent, Danes, but also other people in the world, get their news through social media. They get them through their networks, but also through the algorithms from which the social media manage the debate. This means that everything else will be more difficult for users, for citizens living in a democracy, to distinguish between the news coming in. What exactly is the reason why the news looks like they do? Who really is the source of this news? And what does it do to our democracy and our society when the information looks different from what we have really known? There is no doubt that this development is going so fast that we, as politicians too, have not followed it, because the regulation, as it is called, that is to say the setting of these platforms, does not, of course, follow developments that are going so fast. So is there a need for us to look at it? Yes, of course. That is why I am actually pleased that we have a broad proposal for adoption, because it is also recognising the need to regulate this issue, including the need to regulate private companies operating these platforms. It would be tempting to say that it is basically just a private platform Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook and then they have to do it. And if you don't like the smell of the bakery, I guess you can't participate, and then the market's gonna have to buzz out there. When that is not an option, it is because it has such a pervasive effect on our society and on our democracy, and there have been some cases that are amazing. We had a recent case where it was then suggested that we as parliamentary politicians could mean something, and then others could not mean anything, and it was such a strange mess. Very recently, there was also a satire sketch of our Prime Minister, which was removed, where I thought that it was actually something strange that one could not share it. So there's no doubt that there's a grope here. There is a grope on the platforms, there is a grope among the citizens, and of course there has also been a grope politically, about how to deal with this. Anything else would be weird. But we have a job to do in finding out how to regulate it in a way that, of course, we are taking harder action against what is clearly illegal. Well, it is quite unacceptable to see such sex videos recorded in hiding by young people who are allowed to flourish without being removed quickly enough. That is unacceptable. And what is clearly punishable everywhere else is, of course, also openly punishable on social media platforms. So that's where we have a job. That's the easy part. Then there is everything that is in the grey area that is, of course, about on the one hand guarding our democracy and the opportunity to express itself and, on the other hand, finding out how we deal with it. I think we should also be careful when you go in and talk about editor responsibility for these platforms. When I say that, it is because it is also the responsibility of editors that we are actually imposing on other traditional media. I think we need to work on how we understand these media. So we can do something legislative, we have to do something legislative, and then we have a huge task in terms of education and so on. to ensure that, not least, our children and young people can grow up and be able to deal with it. But it's all the rest of us, too. If you look at Facebook today, that's not where the kids are. Then it is there on the platforms that the older and a little younger older etc. is what became Lars Løkkesk. That is why we also need to look at how we work with it. So thank you for the debate we have today. I look forward to that very much, and I look forward, not least, to the further political work to find out how we are going about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103119	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103122	Thank you for your great gratitude for our debate. To put it mildly, it is also important. I am extremely pleased that the Social Democratic Party can now see the need to regulate the wild moderation of Facebook, but what I wonder is that it has not been seen in the past, and then I get such a suspicion that it might have taken great care of the Social Democracy that it could be ensured that those annoying Islam critics and national conservative debaters were shut down. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party can only see the problem now, even though it has been present for an incredible time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103205	It is almost conspiracyal that the Social Democratic Party should have failed to take part in that debate, because we were very pleased that some specific types were excluded from the social media. I'm not buying that premise. I could ask the opposite question: the Danish People's Party was the largest bourgeois party in the last parliamentary term. Why is it that the Danish People's Party did not help to ensure that the then bourgeois government regulated it here? It is not the case that Facebook has emerged here after 5 June last year and that the problem is completely new. Well, it's been there a long time. So you had every chance to do something about it, so why was it that the Danish People's Party didn't do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103243	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103244	The Danish People's Party has done everything we could. We have been criticizing this all along; it has been a debate that has been going on all along, so it is a very strange accusation to make. However, I have not heard a sigh from social democratic politicians about the desire to ensure that Islam critics and national conservative debaters should have as free a play as social democratic debaters on Facebook. So I don't recognize that. I find it strange that one should enter the debate so late, although of course I am extremely glad that one gets into it now and that one gets into it on our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103321	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103321-2	I mean, now Mrs Marie Krarup has been sitting longer in the Folketing than I have, but I really think it is extremely strange and very, very strange that we have this debate which I think is a very good, substantial and very important debate and I am glad that the whole parliament is in a proposal for adoption and then the debate must start with a conspiratorial question as to why we have not been there when we have had four years to do something about it ourselves. I find it extremely strange that we are now discussing this rather than discussing the content. But so be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103350	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103352	Thank you. I would just like to correct the rapporteur when he says that young people are not on Facebook. The latest figures we have from 2018 say that 82 per cent. of the young people between the ages of 16 and 24 are on Facebook daily. Well, let's just make this clear: 82%. My question to the rapporteur is in relation to the regulation that is now being called for. Because we already have a provision, we already have the freedom of expression, but we also have criminal law. Does the rapporteur share the view that what is illegal in real society is also today illegal in virtual society? Or are there things that are illegal in physical society but that are legal in the virtual? Or is there not a complete collision between them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103450	In my opinion, if it is illegal to say something on the street, it is also illegal to say it on Facebook. I'm thinking that's how it is, so everything else would be totally weird, so it's perfectly logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103503	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103504	That is why, of course, my point is that this is about the fact that there should be more special legal regulation of what one can afford to say on social media, versus what one can afford to say in the real world, perhaps not necessary. Because you can just demand that the legislation we have in the rest of society also applies to social media. What, then, is the need for further regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103528	In fact, I believe that Mr. Søren Espersen, who sits down here in the hall, and I participated in a joint article in Berlingske for a while around Tommy Robinson. For suddenly they suggested that politicians could be allowed to mean it, but ordinary people could not mean it. And I think we had a common position on that was rather strangely set up, and it also shows that these platforms are having a hard time working on this and needing help, and I think we should give that help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103555	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103557	Thank you very much. The former president of the printing freedom company, Lars Hedegaard, who is also a critic of Islam, and the current president of the printing freedom company, Aia Fog, had their profiles removed. I don't know why Lars got hers removed, but Aia got hers removed to also write about Tommy Robinson and advertise the event. When Mrs Marie Krarup and myself asked critical questions about this, both people got their profiles back. In other words, it was not a regulation, but rather a massage of attitudes. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103634	Well, I think I agree with that, i.e. it gives some weird decisions and some weird collaborations between these platforms, too, for politicians and opinion-formers and all sorts of other things. And that also shows that it is a challenge that we need to work with. And it also bears witness to something else that is also contained in our proposal for adoption, namely that it is extremely complex. Therefore, there are probably no easy solutions, and therefore it also takes some work to find out how the hell we're gonna get this done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103705	Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103706	There's also another problem, and it's that Facebook has that blacklist where they have people who are blacklisted from Facebook. The people on that list do not know for themselves that they are on the list they do not have the opportunity to defend themselves; they do not have the opportunity to speak. Legal certainty is surely a problem when you cannot be defended or defended or even know why you are on a list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103732	But this is where we have some challenges, because now we are deep in the stomach of a private company and want to regulate their business model and the way they do it. And I believe that to some extent too, but that is also what makes it difficult, because there are some people where we would think it was very good. Well, if Osama bin Laden was making propaganda videos on Facebook, wouldn't we agree that it was very clever that they weren't allowed to bloom or be shared? And that just shows that we have some challenges here, in terms of how we deal with the interaction between what we think these private companies should and should not, and what we as authorities would like to have the opportunity to take action against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103811	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529103827	Thank you for the floor, and first of all I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on the question debate we have here today, because it is an incredibly exciting subject and it is dilemmaous to a degree, so that you do not understand it, and at the same time it is something that very many people have an opinion on. There are more people on Facebook than watching soccer. Two out of three Danes log daily! So I fully agree with the premise that it is to a very large extent on social media that public debate is taking place. In many ways social media is a gift, an opportunity for anyone to express themselves about anything without any kind of censorship. Censorship is the thing about first having something approved before it can be printed and in this case the print is the same as that it can be put on a platform. But there are also challenges, and those challenges have become ever greater as social media have become increasingly widespread. It is such a thing as illegal content, and on the other hand it is to provide a framework for freedom of expression. In legal terms, it is not a restriction on freedom of expression that Facebook says that this should not be on Facebook, nor is it a restriction on freedom of expression that Berlingske says that you cannot, unfortunately, get your letter. However, I fully acknowledge the premise that if you are excluded from Facebook and Instagram and perhaps also Twitter, then the framework you have to express yourself has been narrowed down, and that is why the effect will be the same, because these major platforms have something similar to a monopoly. I do not think that the comparison between Facebook and the Soviet Union is quite fair, because one could not just move out of the Soviet Union and live somewhere else where one had freedom of expression. After all, you can create platforms other than Facebook, and you can express yourself on platforms other than Facebook, so I don't think that comparison was such a real one, but I understand the intention behind it. Justia, the legal think tank, in collaboration with some called Common Consultancy and Analysis & Tal, has just published a report which maps the nature of comments that have been deleted, and it is then five selected news media's facebook pages, and they come to the conclusion that for every illegal comment that is removed, there are 36 legal comments that are removed. But again, there are some sub-groups here. So, like my good colleague Kristian Pihl Lorentzen set up a facebook group for people who like veteran cars, he'll probably also find it annoying if people write about everything else on that page, and he should be allowed to delete that. So the problem is not quite simple. On the other hand, the report also shows that every time there is a criminal comment that is removed, and we agree on that, namely that criminal comments must be removed... there are therefore three or four criminal comments that are not removed. We saw an example here the other day. There has been a really unpleasant phenomenon of some young people filming others while beating them up and forcing them to make all sorts of humiliating statements about themselves, and it is then put on Instagram, and there it is allowed to lie for months. So that's the other side of the medal. How we solve this is hard to say. I think it is easier to point out the problem than to give the solution, but the Freedom of Information Commission has made some recommendations which I think are quite interesting. What they are saying is that greater openness and transparency must be created as to what is the basis of the content moderation and how it is practiced, and that the technical moderation tools should be continuously refined. The requirements should also include that the actual removal of content and, where appropriate, blocking of profiles should be accompanied by a justification and authorisation of redress. Now, this may really be the best, because then we'll have a public debate about why this has been removed, and then Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104342	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104345	Compared to the fact that Facebook can delete things that are not illegal, how would the rapporteur feel if Google and their Gmail account started deleting emails that Jan E. Jørgensen got and where they didn't think the content was okay? Jan E. Jørgensen shouldn't have anything with that content? Would you accept that? Would you accept that somebody was editing your e-mails and watching them? It is also an online social media, and it is also a communication between two people that takes place digitally. Can there also be regulation of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104432	I think that's a strange comparison. I have to admit that. Well, it's like you can't tell the difference between a letter and a newspaper. In relation to sending a letter from one person to another, it is clear that you must be able to write what you want, and whoever reads the letter can open it and read it, and no one else can read it. It's the same way with an email, whether it's sent as googlemail or what the other one is. So there's Facebook more to compare with a newspaper. There may then be some closed groups, and it is perhaps more the church magazine in Sønder Omme or the Left Youth in Fjerritslev etc. that communicate with each other there, but it is to a wider circle. So, there is a great difference in principle between communication between two individuals, whether it is in the form of an old-fashioned letter or a modern email, or whether you communicate on a platform like Facebook or Instagram or something else, for there all sorts of other people can read with. There is a huge difference, so I don't think that comparison really makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104529	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104530	But it's a little more complicated than that, because in an email today you run with long mailing lists where you can send an email to thousands of citizens. On Facebook you can have closed facebook groups. You can also choose in your listing who can see your listing. So it's not like you're sending it out to everyone. You can easily have closed groups on Facebook where others cannot read what you write. But that's why Facebook can still go in and regulate it. So the comparison is completely real.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104556	No, I still don't think it is. And by the way, there is also regulation on e-mails. So you have to, for example. Don't send spam. I am not allowed to send advertising to people who have not accepted it in advance. And I can't just be allowed to send all sorts of illegal content to thousands of people, so that way there is also regulation of e-mails. So I still don't think it's quite a comparison that makes so much sense. And I'm not sure I quite understand where New Citizens are going with this issue either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104630	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104632	The rapporteur obviously did not understand what I meant about the Soviet Union and Facebook. What I mean is that in an open and free democracy like ours, there are still people who do not have a voice in the debate, just as dissidents in the Soviet Union could not be heard. Their books would not be printed, and they would never come near a television screen or newspaper or have the opportunity to express their criticism in any way. That is what is so unhappy about Facebook becoming so large and dominant that it is actually possible to create non-persons in today's debate, even though we live in an open democracy. That's what we have to change. I do not think that we should necessarily go through what the Soviet Union went through with total collapse and so on, but it should be possible to do it in a different way in which we do something about the social media itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104732	I did not say that I did not understand the comparison, because I understand the comparison and I agree that there is a problem. I said that I did not think the comparison was quite fair, because there is, after all, a possibility of writing about him here Robinson everywhere else, and the mere fact that we are discussing him here today shows that he is not a non-person, otherwise we could not talk about him, and otherwise we did not know who he was. There have been newspaper articles written about him everywhere, and Twitter has not known the same policy. That is why I am saying that the comparison is not entirely reasonable, but I agree that this totally excluding some people is problematic. I am not saying that it should be prohibited, because there can be good reason for that, I will not reject it at all. If I had some newspaper, there could be some annoying type who wrote a letter of reading on the reader's letter, and every time I wrote something, it was completely crazy, and then I could say to him: You know what, you shouldn't write to us anymore. We also have people who send e-mails to our accounts, and what they write is anti-Semitic, and what do I know, and there I can say to them: You know what, you don't write to me anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104842	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104844	The problem of being excluded is that it's very difficult to go anywhere else, because there isn't really anywhere else today because Facebook has got this monopoly-like status. I would like to ask the rapporteur the same thing as I asked the Social Democrat rapporteur: why is it only now, when we raise it in the Folketing, that the Left gets involved in such problems? Has it actually been quite convenient in the past for the Left that those debaters who had a very critical attitude to open borders and free immigration etc. suffered a cranky fate on Facebook and were very much exposed to decommissioning by having their comments deleted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104919	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104935	I think that is simply a strange question. The Left has had an excellent collaboration with the Danish People's Party for many years. I think it is strange that such motives should be put into the shoes. I do not think that is fair, and I think that Mrs Krarup should go home and think about whether it is really fair to put questions to the Left of that nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104953	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529104955	The rapporteur mentions that we can stand here and talk about Tommy Robinson. And we can because we're members of parliament. We can also write about Tommy Robinson on Facebook if we want to; nothing happens to that, but something happens to everyone else who does. Anyone else who writes about Tommy Robinson gets their listings removed, and if they keep going, they get their profiles erased. That doesn't mean we're above the mob. They can't write about Tommy Robinson, but we can. Does the rapporteur not agree that, after all, we are all equal before the law and also for the rules that Facebook may have introduced under their private auspices?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105034	No, I don't agree with that. I mean, MPs have an extended freedom of expression. Ask Mr. Martin Henriksen, who is currently in court for some statements about two women. That is precisely where the argument that there is an extended freedom of expression for members of parliament is used, and we are guaranteed that in the Constitution. I think that is sensible enough. But I don't want to defend Facebook's policy of excluding Tommy Robinson. I think they've gone too far for sure. Some of this is probably due to the fact that there are so many listings, and the easiest thing is to set some robots to go in and make some algorithms that make that if you type something, your listing will be automatically removed, but that is deeply problematic. And even if you thought it was important that Facebook didn't promote Tommy Robinson and didn't give him a platform, that would also prevent criticism of him. In the same way with the Green Jacket case at the time, when Denmark's Radio was originally convicted of having passed on some statements, but later was acquitted by the Court of Human Rights because it was said: Well it is important that these Green Jackets' statements come forward and become part of the public debate. So it's not quite simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105154	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105156	I read an online thread about Facebook and Tommy Robinson, where there's a user who writes that he's been trying we can all believe a lot of things about Tommy Robinson, but we really don't know how to have a real factual debate about what's up and down in this case and what's right and wrong, and asked if people would bid in if they knew anything or had any documentation. The free, objective debate was also shut down. So Facebook to some extent limits our freedom of expression, also in relation to having the critical approach, because their argument is that you should not support Tommy Robinson. But that was not the case here. In fact, this was someone who just wanted to find out what's really up and down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105236	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105238	Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. And as I said, I will not defend Facebook's decision to exclude anyone who writes Tommy Robinson unless you're a member of parliament. I think this is a strange decision for many reasons. And listen, I had no idea who Tommy Robinson was until Facebook decided to boycott him. So you have really given him a huge ad, which has done that everyone who didn't really care about him before now knows who he is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105309	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105359	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you for calling the question debate on this important issue. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, then came Snapchat and maybe now also TikTok. The last thing I haven't learned so much yet, because there hasn't been such a good opportunity to train the dance skills on the dance floor here lately. But many people are at least one of those places on one of the social media. And where there are people, there is debate. Social media have provided more opportunities to express themselves at all times of the day, and this is really happening at all times of the day. Social media have come to stay. More voices and new voices have come to their attention. He also stressed the need for the EU to be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism and the fight against terrorism. This has strengthened the public debate, but it has also led to a sometimes disgusting debate of dimensions, and it sometimes makes you want to call them the antisocial media. On the one hand we have freedom of expression, which is the clear foundation, but on the other hand we also have illegal speech, threats, digital sexual abuse, hate speech against minorities based on gender, sexuality, religion, ethnicity, disability or other. And there we are experiencing a lack of enforcement on social media, because what is actually illegal is not being taken down. Because it is not necessarily anymore that we need to be illegal. There I think the Freedom of Speech Commission has some good reflections. There is not necessarily a need in this way for further restrictions on freedom of expression, but there is a lack of enforcement of what is now illegal. For example, Germany has set a 24-hour limit for the removal of manifestly illegal content. If it doesn't happen, you can be hit by huge fines. Such a system may be called into question, because, on the one hand, it is important that illegal content is quickly removed, particularly illegal sex videos and so on, where we know that if it is not taken down quickly, the consequences are fatal. On the other hand, we also risk taking legal content down if the deadline is too short. The question is therefore whether it should not always be up to the social media to regulate the public debate, and it should be made clear that with the power of social media there is also a responsibility. To take an example of this, a few weeks ago Instagram systematically took down a certain government critical meme from the Instagram profile dkpolmemes. An image with a text comparable to a satire drawing. It wasn't something I would have put up myself in all other cases, but in order to test it, I put it up on Instagram myself. Here, too, it was taken down. One compared to so many other memes and satire drawings quite harmless picture, yet Instagram took it down. There could of course be a question mark as to whether, as a parliamentary politician, we must put a picture of Instagram criticizing the government. So it is not the law of the jungle that must rule on social media. It must be Danish and European law when it comes to something as central as the public debate, the public debate. In order to get even closer to the heart of the matter, the Freedom of Movement Commission is proposing a monitoring scheme, as we know from, for example, hate crimes. The Radical Left thinks this is a good idea, and we hope that agreement can be reached on this. In addition, more effective prosecution and enforcement against illegal content in the media should also take place. Finally, what the Freedom of expression Commission refers to is important: a high degree of transparency and transparency when content is removed from social media so that the user knows the basis for it. So private law enforcement of public debate without real legal certainty is highly problematic. That is why we are looking forward to the further debate that will not end today. However, we thank a large majority in the Folketing for the strong joint proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105902	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105906	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for the speech, and thank you for our joint struggle for Dkpolmemes' opportunity to make fun of such inkprutten-Svikmøllen-like drawings. And that was an example that we all thought was rather strange, that is, that we should not make fun of the Socialist Government. I think this question is complex and it sounds a bit like the Radical Left thinks that if it is legal, it must also be on Facebook etc. The ban on image pornography was lifted in Denmark in 1969, and today it is allowed in virtually the whole world, and it also flourishes on the Internet but not on Facebook and not on Instagram, because they have a policy that they won't have on their platforms. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529105959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110002	There is no doubt that I also find it strange that something like a male nipple is more allowed on social media than a female nipple. Well, I guess some things like that seem a little weird to me. It is not a criminal offence to go to a school and hang up a sign saying: Fat Dorit from the 2nd grade is a loser. It is not illegal under the criminal code, but it is still something that is fair enough being taken down because it is not something that is important in the public debate, important in the public conversation. Therefore, there may well be cases where something that is not illegal under criminal law is appropriately taken down from Facebook.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110048	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110051	Thank you for your answer. This shows precisely that there can be different rules on different platforms, that is to say, things can and must not be done under such a set of rules as the platform has done. That is why the Commission's proposal is quite clever, because instead of just getting such a robot-generated message that your content violates our Community rules, so you sit back and ask why they are doing it, you could force them to say that it is because you have violated paragraph 3 or paragraph 4, or whatever it may be. So there we could actually come somewhere along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110127	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110130	I am pleased that we have a common understanding of these issues and I think it is a good decision that we also have together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110136	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110141	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur speech with fine points along the way. There will be among other things. mentioned here the example of Dkpolmemet that was removed, as an example of some form of freedom of expression that is being restricted. Now, if we imagined that the picture was not with Martin Rossen and Mette Frederiksen, but instead was with a criticism and a satire of minorities, sexual minorities, religious minorities, people with disabilities or anything like that, would it have been okay for Facebook to remove it? Or would it also be a restriction on freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110223	I find that difficult to answer before you see the very concrete meme in front of you. What is the picture, what is the text, what is the context? However, it is clear that, regardless of what, there must be room for different political positions. Could you imagine that it happened in different ways? It is difficult to make it quite clear before you have seen the mem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110245	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110248	But then Mr. Kristian Hegaard is not on the errand to defend the right to satire and the right to express himself freely on private media. Well, then, sir. Kristian Hegaard out in defending that satire, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard thinks is fun, should be able to stay on social media while the satire, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard does not think that they are funny, should they have the right to remove them and then it is not a fundamental defence of freedom of expression. It is just a general trend that worries me in the debate on social media, namely that there is such a left-wing tolerance in relation to all kinds of minorities, in other words that they must not be subjected to criticism or satire or political disagreement. That's why I used this example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110325	You can't say it like that. I may not think the government-critical meme was the funniest thing in the world either, but I thought it was important that there was room for it, and that is why I put it up as support and support for it myself. I think we can do satire on minorities without there necessarily being outright hateful or degrading speech; that is to say we can easily find a good balance in that, and that is why it depends on the actual meme. I am not going to be a taster, but I am not going to decide in advance whether a specific meme is illegal or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110359	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110402	So we're out in taste judgment. Who or what, according to the rapporteur, should decide what must be on Facebook?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110418	Well, there is the fact that it is not possible to say exactly what is illegal when it comes to legal regulation under the criminal code. It depends a little on how time is and what it is in general, and that is also what is interpreted in the courts, that is to say, that it develops dynamically over time, in relation to what is generally said by a population. So we cannot make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110437	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110440	Excuse me, sir, but this is out of the question, rapporteur. We are talking about the current legislation. Facebook removes things that under current law are quite legal if you utter them in a newspaper or anything else. So I ask again: Who or what should be allowed to remove things on Facebook? Is it okay that Facebook just removes it because they don't like it to be there? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110508	In other words, what is the basis is the criminal law and what is illegal in relation to it. And then we have a special grey area which is difficult and which we need to look at politically. If there was now a voter meeting where there was a single person in the audience who kept raising his hand, took the floor and said some very strange things, then it may be that those who were present just said: "Don't be here." But it is not necessarily a violation of criminal law. And in the same way, sometimes something gets taken down by Facebook. But first of all, I think that it is freedom of expression and criminal law that are at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110540	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110550	I am just curious to hear more about what the rapporteur thinks, because now we are on the same vote, and it is always a little creepy for the Danish People's Party, so I would say to be on the same team as the Radical Left, and that is why I would like to bore a little bit in it, i.e. whether it is actually the case that we agree in this area. Does the rapporteur think that Islam criticism and the detection of integration problems in Denmark should be open to discussion on Facebook?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110617	I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party has also agreed to the adoption that was made. So, first of all, I would like to thank you for that. In addition, there must, of course, be room for discussion of all political issues, but this can be done in a way that is not degrading and utters outright hateful speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110636	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110640	So there must be room for Islam criticism and, for example, there must be room for Islam criticism. national conservative debaters. Of course, I am extremely pleased about that. I can only express, as I have also expressed my regret to the other rapporteurs, my grief or regret that this criticism has not been made more often and in the past, because it is something that has been known for a very long time, that is, that there was a part of the debate environment that simply had much worse conditions on Facebook and other social media, even though they have completely legal and completely real opinions, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110717	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110721	Then I hope that the Danish People's Party will help to get this monitoring scheme under way, as proposed by the Commission on Freedom of Movement, namely to look a little more closely at what these expressions are that are hateful and that are particularly taken down. That would be very positive. I think that there should be room for all political debates, and I am sure that this can and must be done in a way that is not degrading and contains hateful harassing speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110748	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no further brief comments, which is why we are now moving on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529110811	First of all, I would like to thank you for calling this debate, which I think is very important. There is no doubt that there is both good and bad about the fact that we have the social media. On the positive side, it has to be said that more have made some channels express themselves and maybe also find some communities that they would have had in the past really, really hard to find, and then the social media can now bind people together. I think that is very positive. But there is also a reverse, and I think everyone in this Chamber is aware of this. Sometimes the tone is really hard, and sometimes it is threatening, and that causes some to withdraw from the debate. Then, of course, there are all the problems of illegal content, for example. Joints without consent. The press is currently running the stories about how young people attack other young people, film it and put it on social media. In the past, the debate has been very much concerned, for example. For this reason, I think it is time for us to regulate social media, and I am very pleased that today we have a broad adoption which recognises it. After all, it is not long since we debated the SF's proposal here in Parliament to impose on social media to remove illegal content from social media. The idea was particularly strong here in order to give the victims of insulting events on the web an opportunity to stop the damage, because when a sex video is shared without consent, it is often shared very much, it reaches very far out, because it is distributed violently, and it just makes it extremely difficult to remove afterwards. After all, there are more organizations trying to protect the rights of the victims, and they say that it is therefore essential to slow down these divisions early in the phase, because otherwise it will be almost impossible to get away. Therefore, our proposal was also, without being specific, to set some time limit for when social media should have removed something at a request, either from an authority or from a citizen who says: Hey, it is I who is in this video, and it is not allowed to share that. This would give the victims back power in their lives, and perhaps it could also ensure that the victim can be more sure that it does not leave behind the digital tracks that risk violating the victim for the rest of his life. That is why I am pleased that the adoption both calls for social media to be regulated, but also for this model to be found to remove content. I think it is a good thing that we finally agree that this should happen. It may well be that we have different views on what the model should look like, but we will have to take that when a model comes up. The Minister said on the platform to our proposal that he would not anticipate the course of events, but he would not deny that there could be such a model as the one proposed by the SF. At least now we have sent out a signal that we want such a model. There is no doubt that we have been preoccupied with the German model, which removes the content after 24 hours, and I know that there has been some criticism of that model, but we must then try to take that into account, because the criticism has been that it should provide a basis for censorship. Actually, there's really no sign of that. In fact, the Freedom of Speech Commission says that they have looked at the evaluations of this and that it has not happened and that fear has been unnecessary. I have to say that, for example. sharing of images and movies of sexual content without consent, abuse of children, Hurtcore etc. is not freedom of expression, because it is criminalised in the criminal code and for good reason, and therefore it is not an interference in freedom of expression or contrary to the constitution or anything else to remove the content. I think that social media should be committed to complying with the criminal code in Denmark and removing the illegal so that they do not help spread a crime. Part of what I think should also happen with regard to social media is that there must be more transparency in what content is being removed. There must be justifications for those who suffer, and there must be a right of appeal if you think it has been wrongly done, and that was in fact part of the proposal we made. As I read what the Freedom of expression commission recommends, it is also moving in that direction. So I also think it is good that it is part of the adoption, and I think it is actually a good day today, because we are approaching some kind of consensus at least among the majority that there is a need to regulate social media, because that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111252	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111257	I'm a little curious. For us in New Citizens, legal certainty is a very important area. I agree, in fact, that someone can be required to remove something, but it has to be, for example. a judge who does it, otherwise it will be taste judgment, i.e. if it is a private company that does it. If there is a picture of me that offends me or that I don't like, then I tell Facebook to remove it, and then Facebook removes it because they want to avoid a fine. It has to be some neutral people in our society that we have given authority to be able to do these things on Facebook, for example. a judge, just like the police can't just walk into your property without it being over a judge who gives a court order. Those things can be done quickly. If you say that it is something that violates you and Facebook removes it, and you can complain afterwards, it is a private company that has a monopoly and can therefore display taste judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111403	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111407	As I said in my proposal, it could be the citizen who appears in something that is improperly divided who says that it must be removed because it contains a sex video of the person concerned, and then it has to go away, but it can also be an authority and an authority could easily be the courts. I am very prepared to discuss how we also create legal certainty, and that is why we had things like redress, supervision and other things. Transparency was also part of what we wanted. I think more palettes are needed, so I am very willing to discuss whether it should be the courts that remove it. It could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111448	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111452	I'm glad that SF takes the view that it shouldn't just be some people selected by Facebook who have to make these assessments, and that it's not just that someone has the right to say: I feel that this offends me because it's uncomfortable. After all, it is also a matter of breaching something that is criminal law. It may be uncomfortable that a video comes up by one on Facebook, but it can be fully legal. You may have just messed up or faced an unpleasant situation, and it may feel as if it offends you, and you wouldn't want it to be there, but it may be the right of other people to have it there anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111525	However, there was a reason why the SF exactly chose to limit its proposal to what is manifestly illegal. You can talk about hate crimes... it's also forbidden in the criminal code... but I think that you move into a grey area where it can be very difficult to decide where we are, and precisely for that reason we didn't have it in our resolution, because I think it takes a very fundamental balance to go that way. Of course, the penal code must also apply on the Internet as it applies in reality, but it is just to say that it is a slightly less simple matter than the obvious illegal content.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111602	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111609	I think there is a risk that we will put different things in the word regulation. In other words, when the Danish People's Party wants more regulation in this area, it is a regulation that forces social media to give more room for different statements so that we force them to be open. When I hear SF, I can be afraid that it is the opposite of what SF wants, that is to say, that they will be forced to be more restrictive. I find that a little worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111637	Yes, but it is clear that if we force them to comply with the penal code, it will probably be more restrictive than what is happening today. We can see that these violence videos, which are shared, with insulting experiences for those involved, have been there for a long time. We would like to give the victims an opportunity to have them removed quickly, and we would also like the authorities to be able to remove it quickly on request. I think it is really incalculable for many how this content can be removed today. They do not know where to turn and how to actually get it done. In relation to whether too much is being removed, I recognise that there may well be a challenge here, and I think that if you read my quotes about Tommy Robinson, which we have debated a little in this Chamber today, I actually said that if you just have an algorithm that sorts out all listings because that name is included, it does not work. I do not think that is freedom of expression. We must be able to tolerate discussing that person and his positions as long as it does not cross the border where we move into something punishable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111743	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111747	Yes, and that's where the dog is buried, because that's the question of how to define hate speech. And there, of course, some very broad definition has been used which meant that everything to the right of the Radical Left was almost hateful speech when it came to talking about integration problems and the presence of Islam in Europe. That is where the problem is, in other words, if we start to give the social media the opportunity to sort out such a broad definition, which actually excludes part of the political spectrum, so fully legal parties that have fully legitimate opinions, then suddenly cannot participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111829	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111832	Well, I think the big challenge is that we don't really know how that system works today. We can certainly see that there are some notices that are being removed. We do not get a reason for this, and there is nowhere to complain about it, at least not where you find that there is a complaint being dealt with. I think that is a problem. So I think the first step would be to do what the Freedom of Freedom Commission is actually proposing, namely to create some transparency about how this works. I think that will also provide us with a good basis for regulating and deciding whether new legislation or legislation should be introduced other than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111902	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111910	Now Mrs Marie Krarup came a little ahead of me, because I had a bit of the same concern as regards whether we read the proposal for adoption in the same way and whether we give the same meaning to the words, but the rapporteur has already explained some of that. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that political opinions, criticism of Islam or other religions are legal in Denmark as long as we do not, of course, break the law. We fully agree on that part, and the same applies to the first thing the rapporteur has said, about abusive films and such things, of course, must be removed as soon as possible. That's not where it is at all. It lies in the question of whether one is allowed to express one's national conservative attitude on Facebook, whether one can criticise Islam without it being a problem. That's what the Danish People's Party's appeal is in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529111959	Of course you have to debate Islam, and of course you have to be critical. What matters to me is that you don't cross the border in criminal law. We have spent a lot of time in SF, for example. to criticise social control, which may be a challenge in certain Muslim circles. We need to be able to have an open, honest and public debate about this kind of thing. But where you cross the border in criminal law and where it becomes hateful speech, I get off. Of course, we need regulation for that, and we have regulation for it is punishable according to our criminal law, but I understand that it can be difficult to make an assessment of the individual listings. I often think that we are in a grey area where it can be difficult to assess whether or not it complies with the law, and here it is perhaps a very good idea that there is a court to assess the legality of it, because it also changes a little over time what is acceptable. We can at least see that with the decisions that have been made in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112059	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112103	I hope we agree that religious criticism is not the same as hate speech. I guess you have to be allowed to do that. In relation to the fact that a person may feel that something is offensive, I would say that I think we have all tried here, that there have been some articles about ourselves that we did not think were very funny, but it is not illegal. You may have said or done something stupid or been in a slave's situation, and then it is in some media the next day, and you have to live with it. So the thing about just feeling offended isn't enough to get something removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112135	No, but we have excellent legislation. We have legislation on libel, and we have criminal law that sets limits on freedom of expression, and I think that is what should at least be the most powerful regulator.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112204	In March 2019 the Think Tank Justitia published a note on freedom of expression under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's governments since 2015. The note examines seven legislative changes which, according to Justitia, have all weakened freedom of expression in Denmark. These are legislation on everything from religious training to the cover-up ban to rules on defamation on the Internet. One party in the Folketing and only one party has consistently voted against all the restrictions on freedom of expression adopted under the Left-led governments, and that is Enhedslisten. Justitia's note also mentions a single adopted law, which has actually strengthened freedom of expression during that period, and it was the abolition of the criminal code's blasphemy clause, as it was Enhedslisten who proposed to abolish it. So when I stand here today, it is as rapporteur for the party in the Folketing that has most consistently defended freedom of expression. Freedom of expression and other freedoms are important to us in the Enhedslisten, and so it is not only when we make speeches, but it is also when we press the buttons here in the Assembly Hall, and it is with the starting point that I enter into this question debate on freedom of expression on social media, which has been raised by a party, the Danish People's Party, which has voted for almost all the restrictions on freedom of expression mentioned in the Justitia memo. For Enhedslisten, it is important for our democracy that we all have free and equal access to the public debate, which is currently taking place on the social media. Unfortunately, the Internet and social media have also become a place today, where women and minorities in particular are subjected to hatred and harassment, and this creates problems for our freedom of expression, because it actually prevents women and people with a minority background from taking part in the public debate. This is a huge problem for our freedom of expression. Online hatred comes in many forms: Coordinated attacks on individuals, cyberharassment that fills up the inbox with hateful mails, or direct threats of violence and rape. Today is the publication of private information such as: address or telephone number, which is called doxing, followed by direct or indirect calls for harassment, became a weapon in the public debate, which threatens some to silence. I think that is a problem for our freedom of expression. After all, social media is a phenomenon that has come about in recent decades, and it is probably also a phenomenon that has come to stay, so we need to do something about it. In the past it was the case that when you had to have someone listen to you, you should hope to get through the debates in the newspapers, or you could stand on a beer box out here in the Palace Square and hope that those who passed by heard what you had to say. Today you can sit behind the keyboard and write what you mean, and that has led to this hateful speech. We find that social media are used to share illegal or offensive content; we find that politicians like for example. the President of the United States unfiltered is openly making false allegations against millions of followers; we are witnessing armies of anonymous trolls with extreme views such as racism, lies and gross personal attacks attacking debaters who themselves are trying to have a fair tone. Politicians and other debaters, and here I am sure that I share experiences with some of you in here, experience that social media are used purposefully for violent hate messages and outright threats, and I will save you from those that are sent to me. But that means that I believe that freedom of expression is under threat on social media, and that is something that has also been highlighted here today, and I also think that is why we are calling for the question debate. But whose freedom of expression is what we're talking about? I would like to remind you that freedom of expression was not originally the right of every man to belittle and mock, but was a guarantee of the voice of all citizens in the public debate. It must also be on the basis of the debate on freedom of expression on social media. In the Enhedslisten, we have a number of suggestions on how to ensure that everyone is heard on social media and how to put an end to this hate speech, threats and harassment. Among other things: We believe that digital harassment must be criminalised because, for us in the Enhedslisten, freedom of expression stops where the criminal code starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112708	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112711	In the Danish People's Party we stand guard over freedom of expression, and we have been doing so for a long time, and we are proud of that. We are proud that we are precisely not giving the intolerant space. We do not show tolerance for the intolerant. We don't think it's okay that you have a religious training in Denmark where you call for murder and killing. We don't think it's okay to put women into mobile prisons. That is a defence of freedom of expression, which I can hear from the rapporteur is not fully understood. When we talk about regulation of social media, it is precisely a regulation of them in order to force them to more openness and not the opposite. I just hope that the rapporteur is fully in favour of this. Because we think it's a little creepy with these definitions of hate speech, and that it can turn into all sorts of weird things that you don't like yourself, and we're just gonna force social media to go away from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112811	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112816	I am sorry that Mrs Krarup sees this as all sorts of strange. I can be more specific: I believe it should be criminalised to carry out digital harassment. I believe that what is called doxing, which is when you share a person's telephone number or address for harassment, must be criminalised. Then I would also like to remind Mrs Krarup that it is not just me who is standing here and taking the view that the Danish People's Party does not have the relationship with the freedom of expression outlined by Mrs Marie Krarup, but that it actually comes from a note from the Think Tank Justitia, which, as I said, has reviewed the legislation from 2015 to 2019, and I can send that to Mrs Krarup when I get down to my chair again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112851	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112855	Thank you. The problem we have on the ground in Denmark is that one should have defended freedom of expression at the border by avoiding a minority who had no desire to respect freedom of expression because one wants to put some religious laws over it. This is the battle we are in on the ground here in Denmark, which is one of the most important battles in today's Denmark at all. On the social media, it is a little different, because there is the fact that we have to force them to make room for all the different positions that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112933	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529112936	I fully agree that there should be room for different opinions on Facebook. That is also why I think it is so important, and that is also why I believe that our freedom of expression is threatened. For there are some who are threatened with silence, women refrain from taking part in the public debate or running for parliament or for municipal elections because they are afraid of threats. It is therefore such a threat to our freedom of expression that we do not all have the same opportunities to participate in the public debate. I hope Mrs Krarup will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113007	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113016	You hate Muslims is the sentence I usually hear when I criticize Islam. And nothing could be more wrong. I have something fundamental and fundamental against Islam. And that's why it gets interesting, because what others perceive as hateful rhetoric and hateful utterances and hateful attitudes is not necessarily hateful attitudes, but attitudes based on a deep indignation over, for example, a totalitarian ideology. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is the dividing line for the Enhedslisten? Who's going to evaluate these things about what's hateful attitudes or utterances etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113107	I am very pleased with the question. In the Enhedslisten, we propose that the platforms should employ moderators with a legal background, that is, not attitudes, but legal background, in relation to this: Where does the penal code start? And they're the ones who have to assess it. And then, of course, it has to pass a court of law. That is our position in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113133	I would just like to clarify: So the rules we have in physical society about hateful attitudes and hateful rhetoric are also the rules that must apply on Facebook? Or is it believed that Facebook can make its own rules about what is perceived as hateful and that that is what we must follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113152	I don't trust one of these on Facebook, and that's why I have no confidence that they're the ones who have to make the rules. That is why I believe that it must be our rules in Denmark that apply, i.e. that it is Danish courts, Danish police, who must have these matters. I also believe that Facebook must employ several moderators with a legally based background, so that it is precisely not algorithms that determine these things, but that it is actually real people who can read their way into a Danish context that this is part of the debate, or is it not part of the debate? We have, for example. seen examples that Facebook deletes images placed on Facebook with consent from naked women's bodies, for example, but it is also removed. That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113232	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113241	Thank you. That sounds expensive, I must say. That sounds really expensive. I mean, if Facebook is going to have a lawyer I'm a lawyer myself, and we're not the cheapest people in the world, and there's gonna have to sit around like me and take a stand on every post on Facebook and assess whether it falls within or outside the criminal code, it sounds expensive. At the same time, I would also like to say that what Enhedslisten is proposing is also a restriction, a rather marked restriction, of freedom of expression, because that actually means that you cannot make an electronic medium and decide for yourself what that media is to be about. For Enhedslisten, there must be everything, as long as it is not illegal, if I understand Enhedslisten correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113324	It is true that lawyers can be expensive in operation, and this will probably cost Facebook some money, that is to say to hire people. But surely we must agree that it is strange that it is algorithms that determine these things today, rather than physical people who know the context of the country where the debate is going on. I do not imagine that it should be every single poster, because it would really take a long time to post anything on Facebook at all. I'm thinking it should be posters that are being reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113356	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113359	Well, then there could be a lot of posters that weren't removed, because the algorithms capture very much automatically. So what Enhedslisten is proposing is very, very unrealistic; I am sorry to say that. If, for example, is one who is committing suicide and makes it live on Facebook, so first someone must report it to Facebook, and then there is a lawyer who has to look at it and see if it is now above or below the border. You have to have some algorithms for the initial screening, otherwise it can't be done at all with the many billion listings that are on Facebook.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113437	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113440	At least in that situation, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen describes, it is quite possible that it is an algorithm that should capture it. But what we are talking about here is freedom of expression, and I do not know whether I think it is within the framework of freedom of expression that one should be allowed to commit suicide publicly on a social medium.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113457	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113512	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this important debate, because freedom of expression is one of the core elements of our democracy. Let me also start by quoting the Freedom of expression commission, which among other things. Says: Social media are a gift to democracy. And that is absolutely right. This is where some of the most important social debates take place. They are actually on social media, and everyone has the opportunity to participate. But what is also happening on social media is fake news, trolls etc., and they must of course be combated. In the fight against fake news and trolls, it has happened that we have given private companies power over the social debate. Yeah, it's the private companies, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc. We must respect the fact that it is private companies, but it is a dilemma, because it also allows us to limit important social debates, and we have also left that to private companies. Facebook, Twitter and Instagram turn off users who participate actively in the debate, especially right-wing debaters. At any rate, there is a greater likelihood of being excluded as a right-wing debater than as a left-wing, and this often happens without warning, without discussion, without appeal. There is no possibility to appeal against the decision when it is a notification by other users that triggers the exclusion. When that happens and you have to have a reason, say, for example. Facebook states that the post, comment or post was contrary to their Community rules, which forbidds • and I quote • posters that attack people on the basis of race, ethnic background, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, gender or disability. And within that definition, there can be a great many legitimate political views that are excluded. When we had the same debate recently in this Chamber, I mentioned that, when I was in Egypt, I bought Hitler's Mein Kampf^ in Arabic, and to ridicule it I got a picture of the front page and put on Facebook. It wasn't long before it was all removed. The rules are simply so unclear and so there are some who simply sit and exclude and remove content without proper justification. Of course, freedom of expression must also apply to social media. It is absolutely essential in a democracy that you, as a citizen, have the right to express your opinion, of course within the framework of the law. At a time when much of the public debate has moved on to social media, the importance of freedom of expression here too has not diminished. It is true that there are postings of views where, of course, it makes sense to restrict freedom of expression. It could, for example, be a person calling for terror, for violence, but it is already an illegal expression under the criminal law in Denmark, and in this respect I think it is important that we have clear rules. I believe that the starting point should be that we engage in dialogue with the people behind the social media on how to ensure that their platforms are made more transparent, on the one hand, with regard to excluding statements calling for violence, and, on the other hand, with regard to giving way to legitimate political views, which one can also disagree with. So we are certainly pleased with this debate. We are also part of the proposal for adoption that is included today and supported by several parties, and we certainly hope that it is a step in the right direction in terms of getting a much clearer set of rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113942	Thank you. There is no comment to Mr. Naser Khader, so we move on. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529113953	There is no doubt that this is a complex area. I have heard that, I believe, from all the rapporteurs, and so has it. But there will also be a but, because there are also some things that we can establish. Facebook has a monopoly in Denmark, and we have to deal with it this way: they have a monopoly in Denmark. And anyone who claims there is no monopoly can just look at Facebook, which also owns Instagram, which stands for almost 90%. And then when you look in there and people say it's not monopoly, I'll say: well, let's do the experiment that those parties get their social profiles deleted and their accounts deleted, and then we'll see how it goes to the next parliamentary election. It will be crucial for how a party will make its way to a parliamentary, democratic election; whether they have access to social media. And that's why these platforms get a special role in that democracy. They go from being any private company to being a key point to which we have to relate. Because there aren't 20 other brands that you can choose and you can shop around. Facebook does not have a market share of 5, 6, 7%. There aren't 20 different platforms you can be on. And that is why we need to deal with it explicitly. Nor is there any doubt that there is a political bias in what Facebook is doing. There are more national conservatives who are blacklisted and taken off than there are people from the centre left and the left. One can try to see how many people can be mentioned by centre-left politicians or debaters or left-wing debaters who have had their accounts removed. So there's a taste judgment going on. At the same time, we also need to define the role of Facebook as a company. I hear some who say that they should, like, have media responsibility, an editorial responsibility as an editor, and I would like to warn against that in a way. Because you must never take away the responsibility of the people who use the platform. Just as we are not punishing a car manufacturer if someone drives too fast in the car or someone drives someone into the car. Then it's the person who's using the car who's being punished. Nor will we punish the knife manufacturer if someone uses their knives to commit a criminal offence, and I think it is an important hint to have with: who is responsible for it? Today it is not illegal to put an illegal act on the Internet. Is that what it's supposed to be? May the media, other media... TV Newspaper, TV 2 News... show illegal acts? Should they then have a special right to show illegal acts, while private people are not allowed to show illegal acts? Where's the limit? We have some rules in our legal society that apply in the physical reality. It is important that those rules are, of course, transferred to the virtual world, and I think that is a good starting point for where we should start. We set a wide range of requirements for companies wishing to act on Danish soil, and if, as a company, you want to act and be on Danish soil, you have to comply with a large number of Danish legislations. And I would like that to be the starting point, in terms of what Facebook should also do. And it may well be that Facebook to act on Danish soil must allow more than they do today, for example. to show female nipples. I have no problem with the fact that we are setting guidelines for this; that we are not going to allow any taste judgment of people that we cannot control, that is, a state of the state which has fundamental, essential and central importance in how, for example, we are going to be able to control it. Democratic elections can fall out. We must never accept that. We have a democratic duty to take this very seriously, and that is our position in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114517	Thank you. Then it's Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114522	Thank you. In fact, I had a little difficulty in fully figuring out exactly where we were going, but I think something came in the last part of the speech and in the questions that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been through the debate here. If I understand it correctly, it is the case that there should be no regulation because it is a private company and a private platform, but still New Citizens think that you should go in to regulate social media because they should not be allowed to make any moderation or anything else. Could the rapporteur try to be a little more precise about what the regulation of social media should consist of, and should it consist of more being allowed than it is today and not being allowed to moderate that debate? That is one question. The second thing is that if two 15-year-olds make a video of a girl from class that they make with nipples and everything else, but have changed her face, make a manipulated video and spread it, which is not outright porn, but which is still far beyond the limit of what is intimidating and uses it for outright harassment, is it to be said that it is perfectly legal? As I understand New Citizens, it's perfectly legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114702	Then you don't understand New Citizens. The second Vice-President does not speak directly to people). Then the rapporteur does not understand New Citizens. I have just said that these are criminal matters, and we must not harass in the physical, real world, and you must of course not harass in the virtual world either. But I do not want us to have a monopoly company in Denmark which can decide parliamentary elections and which must sit and be able to make taste judgments about what attitudes and what things they think are correct. I do not want that, and it will be profoundly, deeply damaging to how that society will be able to develop if we allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114729	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114733	I therefore agree that they should not be allowed to sit in that way and decide. We have seen huge challenges in other countries with ads, false profiles and factories that are doing smear campaigns, which are not necessarily illegal in the common sense, but which are still highly manipulative and false news. As I understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, it must be fully legal because it is not strictly illegal in relation to the penal code. I still think this is a problem, and I still think it is something that really has a huge impact on our democracy, something that we need to find out how we deal with. It also shows just how difficult it is and that is why we are all asking more questions than we are giving answers, and I think that is actually fair enough in this debate. But isn't that a problem that we need to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114819	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114823	Yes, and I also started my rapporteur's speech by saying that this is complex. But anything that is annoying and hasty and problematic should not be banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114838	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114856	Thank you. I have one question: what exactly is it in this text for adoption, which in fact the whole parliament is behind, except for New Citizens, which makes New Citizens unable to join it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114903	If we have not joined it, it is because we have had the debate here only afterwards in relation to the text. And I was not convinced of what was put into the word regulation. I do not think that the Danish People's Party might think the same way when they speak regulation as the Left does when they speak regulation. That is why I get worried when I read the word regulation, and I probably do not read into it the same as the left, so I find it difficult to support something that makes regulations without having heard what people think that word includes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114935	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114938	But now we have had the debate, and I would like to know whether New Citizens will vote in favour of this when it comes to the vote or whether they will vote against it. And then again, with all these things we've heard now, is it soothing enough for New Citizens, or are you still insecure?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529114957	Having heard the debate, I am absolutely not reassured in any way whatsoever that there will be no discrimination as to which opinions can continue to be expressed on Facebook. I still fear that we have some rulers in Denmark who are going to keep their hands on Facebook so that Facebook can continue to bann national conservative debaters that I fear absolutely still away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115027	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115031	Thank you for the floor. I understood that Facebook had to delete entries that were illegal and that it had to be decided by judges etc., but otherwise one should be allowed to write away. I've just been to Mr. Knox's office. By the way, Lars Boje Mathiesens is quite excellent facebook page, and I very much agree with many of the Facebook listings there. I stumbled upon one where sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen on the occasion of 1 May tells that Enhedslisten is better at spending people's money than we are, and I went in and read the comment trail. There are 220 comments, and not one of them... not one of them... is just a little bit critical of New Citizens or Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. I simply think it is impressive that people so unanimously vote in favour of the positions of new citizens. That is one explanation. The second explanation is that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen may sometimes go in and say: No, this is just too annoying, I don't want to look at that. And then he goes in and hides or removes a comment. So what's up and down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115144	Well, I'm glad Jan E. Jørgensen is following me on Facebook. Thousands of people do that, and more will come. Facebook is a key tool for me to get out with my opinions, because Danish media pass over New Citizens in a big style, but in this way I get to well over a million people every month who can read and hear about my opinions. So it's an important tool, and I have nothing against people who have a different attitude than me. I call on people to debate on my pages. They should be very welcome to do so, and so should Jan E. Jørgensen, because sometimes I also write something about the Left and EU policy, where we at least do not agree. Then get on the side and let's have a debate there. You're welcome to do that. I think Jan E. Jørgensen will find it very funny, entertaining and educational to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115229	Here you go, sir. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115233	Thank you, but I asked you a question. I think it's impressive. Well, it's extremely rare that I write something, and then everyone agrees, and then there's not just a tiny loft of disagreement. That's really impressive. After all, it is not 100% now. of the people who have voted for the New Citizens' Party not quite, right? So I asked a question: does it happen that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen goes in and hides or deletes a comment on his facebook page?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115304	Yes, I do. If that's how somebody writes something that I think is racist, if someone writes something evil about my kids or about my girlfriend, then I won't put up with it on my platform, so I erase it, yes. When it gets personal, and when people go after my kids, I erase it, I don't want it. But you can go in and look at some other listings, and I would urge Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to be something more on my platform, for then he will be able to experience and I will be able to give you numerous examples of it that people absolutely do not agree with what I say, and there we have a lively debate. There are some 32 000 people who are following my political side, and I certainly hope that 32 000 people do not have exactly the same attitude as I do. I'm not looking for lemmings, and all political debate is welcome on my side as long as you don't attack my children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115355	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115401	Thank you. In a large number of schools, educational institutions and workplaces, it is not unusual to have a bullying policy or behavior for bullying. Bullying others does not necessarily violate criminal law. And then I would like to ask whether this is something that New Citizens disapprove of, that is, that there are some places where you have a bullying policy. Then I would like to ask you a more specific example. If you now have a notice board at work, where there is usually such a thing as when the next Friday bar is and when the next auction at the art club is, and on a Friday on half of the notice board is written that Dorte from HR is a traitor, would it have to go through the courts before that poster had to be taken down, or would it be okay for the cleaning staff to take it down, because there is no such thing on that notice board?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115507	After all, I am burdened with a little knowledge in the field of primary school, where it is a legal requirement that a primary school should have an action plan and a policy of bullying. If some schools don't, they don't comply with the law. So that's what they're gonna have. Under Danish law, bullying is not illegal. This is something that is handled between teachers, parents and pupils in social contexts and SSP staff and PPR staff. This is the path we have chosen to follow in Denmark. In other countries, e.g. The United States of America, England, and I believe Australia too, they have chosen to make bullying criminal, and there you can actually be punished for it. If it is the case that there is a person who may commit suicide or harm himself because of an act, then those who have carried out bullying can actually be held accountable to the courts for it. If the Radical Left makes a motion for a resolution on this, we will of course deal with it in the new citizens, just as we do with all the other motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115608	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115612	Then I would like to return to my second question from before: if, in a company where there are perhaps 50 or 100 employees, you have a notice board, where you write about what kind of activities are generally in that place, and then suddenly there is a large or smaller poster on half of the notice board, where it says that Dorte from HR is a traitor, would it be contrary to New Citizens' perception if you took down that poster without it coming through the courts? Would it be okay if the cleaning staff took that poster down, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115644	It is too polemical a question for me to go into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115654	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115656	I understand that New Citizens do not want to join the joint proposal for adoption here because New Citizens do not know what is in the word regulation. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, there is the fact that Facebook must be regulated, social media must be regulated in a way that makes it impossible to remove political debaters because they have a political attitude that the media does not like. Is New Citizens really against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115722	There are two misconceptions in the rapporteur's speech. We have not said in the new citizens that we cannot endorse the proposal for adoption. We have not agreed to it yet, because we will wait until we have heard the debate. It's the first misconception. The second misconception is that we do not know what regulation means. I know very well what regulation means. I was not sure what the various parties put into the word, the concept of regulation. I believe that the Danish People's Party and New Citizens share their views on those things about regulation, but I am absolutely not sure what the Left thinks about regulation, and I also think that is one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party has raised this debate precisely because the Danish People's Party was concerned about what the Left thinks. That is why I think the debate is important and that is why I think it is necessary to hear what the various parties think about the concept of regulation before taking a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115806	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115807	New citizens are now a new party, but it is not normal to do so. That is not to say that the proposals for adoption are being shattered. Some proposals are made for adoption, which are then defended or attacked in the course of the debate, but now it is a new party. We want at least to use the proposals of the Commission on Freedom of expression, and we have got this into this proposal for adoption, and I think that is a very big step forward, that is to force the social media to make an explanation every time they remove something. I think that is a very great step forward. It is a minimum solution and it is part of this proposal for adoption. I would therefore very much recommend that we vote in favour of this unless we think that it is okay for Facebook to remove political debaters without giving an explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115902	There is a very clear reason why we are called New Citizens, and that is because we are not bound by doing things as they have always been. In fact, we believe that there is a need for things to be done differently, and we allow ourselves to do so when we have a question debate. We actually allow ourselves to hear what the various parties have of political opinions before we decide whether we can agree to what is in a document. I almost think that the present form in which it is conducted, that is to say that people decide something before they have heard what other people have to say, is deeply mistaken. I believe that these proposals for adoption should only be made after the debate has been completed, so that we have heard what people have of different opinions and then we can decide whether we can agree to anything. So it is the present form that is missed, and not the approach that New Citizens have to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115947	I would just add that, if you want to change the Rules of Procedure, you have to do away with them. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529115954	But now it's weird when that's the argument. I would really like to ask: if the word regulation is a cause for concern, what has New Citizens done to get it out of the proposal for adoption which was circulated among the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120016	Let me just say, in all due respect for the fact that we are not the smallest party in the parliament, that we have not heard the whole debate. There are also non-party people, so I have not heard the whole debate. And I choose to take a position when I have heard the whole debate. I am also a member of a party, and it is often necessary and quite natural that one should also hear what the attitude is when one chooses such things. When we're not involved in this, it's because, with regard to the word regulation and the things that were very worried about what people read in it. And I can hear in today's debate that some people think it's okay that somebody should sit and be tasters. We do not share that view in the New Citizens' Party. I know that often it is a unanimous Parliament, where you cannot tell the difference between what is the right side and what is the left side of the Folketing, but there we are just a different party. We do things in a different way, and fortunately there are more and more Danes who like to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120114	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120115	I can then understand that New Citizens have done nothing to remove the one word that separates New Citizens from the rest of the Folketing. Has New Citizens then made their own proposal for adoption, which they have sent to the other rapporteurs, a text from New Citizens which we could perhaps accede to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120132-2	No, it is true that we have not done anything to change the word regulation. I received the e-mail yesterday, and I have had nine other rapporteurs to whom I have been concerned, and I do not think it was important to go in and regulate it. I could make my position known here, and if we need to have another text, we will take it, and when we are going to vote on it here, we will decide whether we can vote for it, whether we vote yellow or whether we are going to table something else for that amendment or how we are going to do it. That is quite normal procedure, and we shall do so here too. Basically, it's fine with all these query debates you're having. It's a new thing you've started in the Folketing; it's not something you've always done, but now you do. Second Vice-President Thank you to the rapporteur.). The way in which these proposals for adoption are put forward, which are to enter the whole debate, seems to me to be a bit of an administrative hassle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120218	When I get up, it's because it's almost over. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120228	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. Here I do not mean the debate on the process of the proposal for adoption, but the debate on the substance itself, which is an important debate, which I believe will fill more in the coming years and which is also dilemmaous and problematic. Is it a violation of freedom of expression when Facebook removes comments that are not illegal in the sense of the law, but that may be offensive or emotionally unpleasant for some of political reasons, and can Facebook be categorized as a forum in which the rights we have in the Constitution also apply? These are relevant and difficult questions. There is something in favour of this being the case. There are also a number of points that speak against. What speaks against is that it is a private media, and a private media must decide for itself what they bring and how they regulate their community, just as a private newspaper itself decides which discussion posts they print and what comments they remove on their blogs online. Facebook, as a private company, has the right to define Community guidelines, including as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned earlier that you should not share pornographic images. But it is not a violation of the constitutional freedom of expression that you should not share naked images on Facebook. So this is an example of not just being able to say unequivocally that freedom of expression is violated when you are limited in what you have to write from comments on Facebook. To give another example: I've had a person named Thomas I can't remember his last name which has been extremely annoying on my facebook page and have written a lot of comments to me that I was an idiot and everything else, which may also be true in some cases. At first, I thought I'd crush him with love. I promise it is the so-called Radical Left Strategy. This is what Radical Left uses in integration policy: We crush hatred against Danish society with love. But like Radical Left integration policy, my love policy did not work on Facebook. Thomas kept writing tired comments, so I chose to delete them and block them so that he can no longer find my facebook page, and he can not write tired comments on my facebook page. Is his freedom of speech violated? No, of course it's not. I'll tell you who's allowed to write on my facebook page. And if it is not a violation of Thomas' freedom of speech when I remove comments from my facebook page, then it is not a violation of Thomas' freedom of expression when Facebook goes in and removes comments from my facebook page or some other facebook pages. So I think that is the part that speaks against the fact that one should go in to regulate too violently on Facebook. When you look at the importance of social media in society today with the digitalisation and globalisation that has happened, and with the popularity of a media like Facebook, it is still complex and a relevant debate because they have an enormous impact on public and free debate. There are movements that have helped change the world that might not have seen the light of day if there wasn't the free word on Facebook: the metoo movement, all this climate thing with Greta Thunberg and a number of other examples. There may even be parties that would not have been elected to the Folketing if you didn't have Facebook. It is, of course, a crucial medium for the free debate and the free word, and that is why I find it also problematic when there are statements on Facebook and other media of the kind that are being removed, simply because you think they are politically incorrect positions. There comes this left-wing tolerance to go in to define what should be written about and what should not be written about, and thus, in practice, it restricts the de facto free debate, even if you do not violate anyone's freedom of expression. You have to distinguish between the two things. I am concerned about the increasing left-wing tolerance. Capitalist companies tend to adapt to their societies, so that is also why all companies are now concerned about world goals and feminism and bad and cinnamon, and they are also taking on this kind of unoder and starting to be politically correct in their guidelines, and I find that worrying. Does that call for regulation? It is perhaps very sensible that this should be justified when some comments are removed. But is it really necessary to go in and ban it? I think it is a huge step to take a private company. There are also other examples of things where it calls for new dilemmas in a new modern digital era with monopoly conditions in some companies. Another example is this fake news thing. Now I saw that Twitter the other day was in to declare when Donald Trump on his profile wrote something that was factually incorrect, and I think that is excellent. This is not a restriction on Donald Trump's freedom of speech. That was a good thing. One should do the same with Oxfam IBIS and Karsten Hønge and all sorts of other people who sneak around with falsehoods about companies, and what do I know? These are different examples of how this is a discussion that is dilemma-filled and with various nuances and complex issues. I believe that this debate will increase over the next few years, and I believe that to some extent it will also require some political action, but to claim that it is the genuinely constitutional freedom of expression that has been violated as a result of Facebook removing some comments, I think is wrong. The debate is a little more nuanced than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120753	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120758	I fully share the rapporteur's view that it is not the individual comment that is crucial, but if it is the whole profile that is being removed, what then? We experienced that our leading candidate in West Jutland completely closed down his facebook profile in the middle of the election campaign because he mentioned the word oikophobia. For those who don't know what that means, it means self-hate to their own culture. It had a decisive influence on how he could conduct his election campaign in the middle of a democratic election. There it is so important, and it was taste judgment alone from Facebook's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120841	I don't quite know what the question in that was. I can of course begin by saying that I know Mr. Nick Mogensen, who was a leading candidate in West Jutland, where I myself run and that he was a skilled and gifted candidate. Whether he had access to Facebook or not, of course he didn't have an earthly chance, because it was personal on Alex Vanopslagh that most citizens voted in West Jutland but nevertheless it must have been frustrating both to have the competition from me and be restricted by Facebook. I can say nothing more than that: yes, I think it is problematic. Will I regulate myself out of it? Well, we're opening up a barn gate, and I think so too, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen knows. If it is the case that we need to regulate politically what we must remove and what we must not remove, then this whole side of the House comes with all their political correctness, with regard to what we cannot write and what we must write. This is a complex issue. I would like to acknowledge that, but to go in and say that Facebook as a private company must not itself define some Community guidelines, I think it is going too far and that creates some other challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120941	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529120942	I very much agree with that. Of course, they must be allowed to operate and define a framework; that is not it at all. In this context, I think that perhaps the rapporteur is also sending a friendly thought to the Christian People's Party, which has had a crucial role to play in enabling the rapporteur to stand in the Chamber. So why don't we all do it now that we're also standing here? On the other hand, I would like the rapporteur to make a few more comments on this kind of regulation, because that is what has been the debate here today. I share very much the rapporteur's concern about this. I do not think it is a Parliament that agrees on what is put in the word regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121021	Now the questioner mentioned something that I do not remember the precise wording of, but it was something that he agreed that Facebook should not be forced here, so that they should be allowed to have their own Community guidelines. But the questioner's position is that Facebook must not prohibit the sharing of pornographic images on So we cannot just say that current Danish law also applies to Facebook. Surely they can ban the sharing of pornographic material if that is what they want. It is a private company and they decide for themselves what must be shared and what must not be shared on their platform. And it should also be a principle that weighs heavily, perhaps not heavier, but heavy, in a party like New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121109	Thank you. There are no comments, so we are done with the rapporteurs. Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. No? No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. Wait a minute. I will allow the rapporteur for the authors of the motion to come up because the Minister has not announced that he would not speak. I guess we've all been a little surprised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121147	Thank you for the floor. I was just a little surprised that the Minister didn't want to say anything. I hope that does not mean that nothing will happen in this area. But it was evidently said in the first speech that the Minister felt was necessary. At least there we were told that something was going to happen and that we should not be tolerant of the intolerant. These are things that I very much agree with. I would like to thank you very much for an exciting and good debate and I hope, as I said, that something will happen. I think there were some things that caused concern in the course of the debate. That is what has been taken up many times, namely that it is difficult to say what is in the word regulation. I was aware, when we entered the debate, that this would be what it was all about, and that is why I think it is very important to make it clear that, on our part, the regulation that we want the social media to be subject to means regulation in a way that gives greater openness that will allow us to participate in the debate. But it is also a regulation that must take account of the fact that it is also a media that is allowed to have some rules other than to have to comply with Danish law only. I mean, for example. This whole thing about banning pornography. You can defend Facebook's desire for that. I am pleased that, in the debate here and with the proposal for adoption, we have agreed to use the proposals of the Commission on Freedom of expression as a minimum solution. This is something that I would expect the Minister to put in place fairly quickly, because it is a declaration of goods. So it is that after all moderation measures, as it is called, i.e. when you delete profiles or close accounts or remove comments, there has to be an explanation for it and, in my opinion, it has to be public. For then it will come forward, and hopefully we can avoid what the Liberal Alliance has so aptly called left-wing tolerance, that is to say, the fact that the words hate speech, for example. will cover Islam criticism, but will not cover criticism of national conservative debaters. There is a risk that some areas will be discussed and some subjects that should not be discussed at all. Hopefully, this can be avoided by using this minimum solution that the Freedom of Freedom Commission is bringing to us and I hope it will be implemented very quickly. So I thank you for the debate and I thank you for the agreement on adoption, and I hope you will understand what we are putting in the word regulation, namely that there must be more opportunity to take part in the debate. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121501	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121505	I think I have a good understanding of what the Danish People's Party puts in the word regulation. But now we have heard the debate, and I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party is reassured that the Left does not put anything else in the word regulation, and that the regulation that the rapporteur wants is not the same as the Left wants, because I am absolutely not reassured about that. I still fear that the left wing will do taste judgment, which will cost national conservatives not to function on social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121535	That is what my speech was about when I said that it would be dangerous if it were to be a form of regulation that would allow for left-wing tolerance. So I've answered that. And I have also answered it in the sense that a minimum solution has been introduced in this resolution, which is the proposal of the Freedom of Movement Commission, that is to say, a declaration of goods, in which every time something is removed or deleted, an explanation must be given, and it must be public. I think that would be something to counteract this left-wing tolerance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121621	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121622	I fully agree with that can be a good tool that Facebook may be about to use, and that is something that we in New Citizens will also be completely constructive in agreeing to if that is what is in it and it is not a regulation where there are some powerful people in Facebook's organization who we cannot see who is. And it also matters who the people who sit and make these decisions are. Is there also openness and transparency about it, or is it just about what decisions they make? I think that is also extremely relevant to know. So if that is the way to go, then we look at it positively. If this is a regulation in which, through an alliance between the powerful people in the centre-left alliance and then Facebook in this way, the national conservative debate dives, then we are very, very worried about it. We're still gone, in other words, in terms of what kind of regulation the left is putting into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121710	Yes, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121711	What the Danish People's Party puts into it is that it should be regulation that promotes greater openness, greater opportunity to participate in the debate and less opportunity for Facebook to exclude people from taste judgment. I don't want editors sitting in dark rooms removing the people they don't like. And if New Citizens do not agree with it, I think it is really a pity. So I hope you find out that you can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121740	Thank you. The debate is over. No one else has asked for the floor. The vote on the proposed adoption will not take place until Tuesday, 2 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121802	The debate is open. Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529121819	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, we have to say that Greenland has not been spared covid-19 either. That is why Greenland has been shut down. Following the closure of Nuuk, entry and exit bans on the capital, alcohol bans and land flights, the country is on its way to a reopening with the first phase from 15 June. Both Sunday, May 24, and Wednesday, May 27, unfortunately, two new infected people were registered this time outside Nuuk. Thus Greenland now has 13 infected, i.e. cases of coronasmite, 11 of which are healthy. It is at the heart of the Social Democratic Party that the wealthy authorities in Greenland are equipped and have the necessary tools to prevent and counteract the spread of covid-19 in Greenland as much as possible if necessary. With Law No. 208 from 17 March 2020 amending the Act on measures against infectious and other communicable diseases, the government was given access in a number of areas to provide the authorities with opportunities for action against infectious and other communicable diseases in Denmark. With L 192 we propose to transfer section 20 of the Code of Epidemics. 3 to Greenland in the fields of criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure respectively. This will ensure that the authorities in the territory of the Ministry of Justice in Greenland, for example. The police department has the necessary tools to prevent and counteract the spread of covid-19 as much as possible. At the same time, it is ensured that there is harmonisation of legislation for Greenland so that the measures to be taken under this bill can follow the actions undertaken by Greenland's Self-Government under Greenland's epidemic legislation. The National Government has given its opinion to the Danish Government to approve the bill. The proposal, for example, will: provide for the possibility, in the field of criminal justice, of laying down rules on the right of inmates and detainees to join forces and visits, etc. may be cut in whole or in part if necessary, e.g. to prevent or contain the spread of covid-19 in the institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare. In addition, Section 3 of the proposal will allow for e.g.: rules may be laid down whereby the transfer of prisoners sentenced to detention from Denmark to Greenland may be cut off. Restrictions may be introduced gradually as development develops if necessary. In other words, if necessary, the wealthy authorities will be equipped to prevent and contain covid-19 infection. It is also proposed that the legislative amendments should be automatically repealed by the end of 2021. With those words, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122108	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122111	Thank you. I think there are two things in this bill that raise a few questions. One is: is it not the Greenlanders who have to decide those things because they are the ones that are affected? The second is: Has Greenland not, within the current framework, actually been able to regulate what they wanted and create a framework that suits their society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122133	Thank you. It is clear that there is a very, very clear division of tasks between Greenland and Denmark in relation to self-government legislation, and this is one of the areas for which Denmark is still responsible, and Greenland can of course in the future take home if it is forced to do so or if it is possible for them to do so. So that's clear. It is, of course, the future that we are talking about, I can tell the rapporteur, and that is why we can, of course, take any further questions into account in the committee's second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122208	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122210	Yes, I fully understand what the distribution of influence is at this time. But now that we have had a situation where Greenland has been able to deal with it within the framework they have, is there reason to place additional power with Danish ministers who can then intervene? When you limit people's right to decide, to move, etc., then it must surely be the people who suffer or who are restricted who have the right to say: yes, that is how we will live. Or they can say: No, we don't want to live like that. They have been able to find out in an exemplary way under the corona, in my opinion, because I think they have been very good at containing the corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122256	I think it is a pity if the big and very broad debate about how much autonomy Greenland should have and how it should be between Denmark and Greenland should be involved in such a serious piece of legislation as this one, because this is quite a normal adaptation to help our friends in Greenland. So I do not think this is where we should have that debate, but of course we can take it up somewhere else between committee sessions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122321	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122337	Thank you for the floor. We stand here today as part of the fight against a worldwide virus which has also spread to Greenland, unfortunately, although it has so far been to a limited extent and fortunately for it. Unfortunately, we cannot be sure whether the infection in Greenland will continue to be as low as it has been in the past and will not return at all when air traffic opens again. That is why we must do what we can to take care of the Kingdom community. It is important for us in the Left, just as it is for all other parties sitting in this Chamber, to contain the infection of the corona virus. We've done a great job so far. The number of infected people is low compared to other countries around the world, and our health system has not been overloaded. In other words, we've stayed on this famous green curve. However, this has required, and it still requires, that we use tough and extraordinary means in the interests of public health, and this may require us to compromise on the freedom that we usually have. Therefore, it also makes sense, of course, that we have the same opportunities in Greenland as we have in Denmark in terms of combating covid-19. We in the Left greatly appreciate the cooperation of the Kingdom Community, and it is fantastic that it also works so well in times of crisis. This is absolutely crucial, which is why I am pleased to hear that there has been an involvement of the government in Greenland. We support the bill with the hope that we will soon be able to return to a normal everyday life. However, we have a few questions in relation to the scope of the legislation which we would like to see clarified during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122511	Thank you. There's no comment, so that's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122524	I was completely surprised, thank you. It is nice to have something I would just like to say that I think it is a very good way, the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Kasper Roug has reviewed this case. For us there is no doubt that it is very important that we in the Kingdom Community have a common way of working in relation to these viruses so that we can warmly support the proposal from the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122605	Thank you. There are no comments. It's sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122700	Thank you for the floor. The bill here is about giving Greenland a series of measures to prevent and contain the infection with covid-19, as we know it in Denmark. It has to be said that things are going very well in Greenland, which has been free for many weeks. Unfortunately, a single case appeared 4-5 days ago, but overall things are going really well. It is lovely, and it is an expression of the fact that there is also a social mind in Greenland; it is good. One can, of course, consider whether there is any proportionality in thinking in legislation by imposing restrictions, now that things are going well, it is a debate we have also had in the Parliamentary Chamber here, about the action for Denmark, but the important thing for the Radical Left in this question has been whether it is also something that Greenland itself wants. We have been able to understand that this is the case, and that is what is essential for the Radical Left to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122758	Thank you for that, there are no comments. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529122948	Greenland must stand as strong as possible in the fight against corona. The infection must be prevented and contained, and this bill shows the pairing between Greenland and Denmark, because the health care system rests on both shoulders. Inatsisartut wants this bill to be adopted and SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123016	Thank you. And there are no comments, so we move on. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123038	The reason why I asked the Social Democratic Party some questions about who decides whether to restrict the freedom that is actually restricted in Denmark too, when we have such a serious illness as corona is, of course, that it is crucial that it is the people who have reduced their freedom who decide on it. Then you can say that Inatsisartut has said that they think it's okay that we deal with the law. But it's kind of in this room that we give up their right. It is our ministers in the Danish Parliament who are going to decide over the limits of these things, and I would ask that we be aware that in the letter from Greenland they refer to the Greenland Human Rights Council: the Council therefore calls for restrictions on the human rights of citizens only on the basis of health assessment. I would remind you that we are having a debate in Denmark these days on whether what we have been doing in the last two months is only introduced on the basis of health assessments. I suppose there is as much policy in it as there are health assessments. At the same time, the Council calls for these tightenings to be lifted immediately when it is safe for the health profession. There we have said in Denmark that we have sunset clauses. Finally, the Council calls for both the law and the decrees issued under the law to be drawn up in such a way as to make it clear what the legal basis is. Neither the public nor the authorities, including the police, should have any doubts as to how the law should be interpreted. It is also an issue on which we have had a debate here because some of the things have gone very fast when we have had to decide these things, because in our eagerness to stem the maximum we have actually done things that have been misunderstood, if you can use that word, that is at least hard to understand, and therefore had to be interpreted and changed a little along the way. But it makes sense for there to be that dynamic. The Institute for Human Rights recommends that careful consideration be given to the need for an authorisation clause in the Criminal Code in Greenland and the Code of Procedure in Greenland, which provides for the possibility of temporarily laying down the rules on the whole or part cut-off of inmates' s slashes, etc. I think there have been legitimate objections. This shows that things are being reflected on by our friends in Greenland, and I also think it is important that we reflect when we make an extension of the law that will apply to others other than ourselves. And so I would say: I wonder what Greenlanders are saying at all. I wonder what they'd say when we're done evaluating. I would guess that there will be an evaluation of these processes both within the Kingdom Community and also within the Nordic framework. After all, there are and have been different views on how to combat corona. I would remind you that Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark have not used the same strategies and have had, perhaps, different results. We don't know yet. In the North there have also been different strategies, in the rest of Europe there have been different strategies, and that is what everyone now, I think, is thirsting for: to try to see if we can draw a lesson from the terrible campaign, where we did not know in advance where we were going to end up, and also what kind of means we needed. During such a period we have limited democracy even in our own country to make it work, to be able to make the restrictions on people's freedom of movement, etc. and in order to stem the tide in the best sense. But I would remind you that outside the world there are governments and ministers who have used this opportunity to say: that is so pleasant, I could get a little power over to myself and then keep it there, then it would be nice. And that is why we must constantly raise the democratic angle when we assess these things: how are we going to get back to normal, including in our own country? And the sunset clause, which was discussed a great deal before it was introduced, was not included in the government's first proposal, but came after a joint discussion. That is why it is important for us to have these thoughts, and I would like to say that I would really like us to have this debate with the Greenlanders when we have finished evaluating the serious period we have been in. Because there's gonna be some learning. Otherwise, it is a quite unreasonable way of acting if we do not make sure that we get some learning out of this. However, the government has also said that we have no idea how this is going to end. We've never done this before, we have to act as best we can in the situation. So I really wanted us to have a proper, thorough talk with Greenland about these things and to have them more than asking for a letter. But if the Greenlanders say: Okay, we would like that, then the Enhedslisten will of course vote in favour. We just want to have a little problem with it, in a situation where we ourselves are not sure whether we have done the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123546	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123550	So, I think that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl is the only one on the planet who can find a discrepancy between the Danish Government and the Naala Suisut, I believe, with regard to all the things that have been around it. On 13 May, not many days ago, Naalaksuisut gave an opinion to the Danish Government to approve draft proposals for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure for Greenland and the Code of Criminal Procedure for Greenland, measures to prevent and contain infection with covid-19 etc. in the present form, that is, what we are discussing today at L 192.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123629	I've heard sir. Søren Espersen's opinion, but that doesn't change the fact that I have read the Naalaksuisut's letter to us, nor does it change the fact that I have also studied what possibilities Greenland actually has now. I think that these are good points when they tell on page 2 of their letter what you have the opportunity to intervene in Greenland, and it seems that it has actually been used wisely and well in Greenland. If Greenland wants further action like these, it's okay for me. I just want to problematize what comes in a debate in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands, in Denmark, in Sweden, in Norway, in Finland and throughout Europe: if we did it right, how do we do it next time, and how do we do it better next time? It is, of course, part of the debate that is probably also taking place in Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123721	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123722	Of course, there will be an evaluation, for who would benefit from not making an evaluation, including in the case of Greenland? I don't see the idea of that at all. That, sir. Christian Juhl says, in fact, that it is true that these statements are available, and it is true that Naalaksuisut has asked the government and the Folketing to say yes to this, but Mr. Christian Juhl just doesn't believe that they mean what they write, and then it's hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123751	Yeah, why wouldn't I? I certainly believe that Greenland parliamentarians have thought about and written what they think of us, and that is also why we will vote for it when they mean it, but that does not change the fact that, as in all other issues, we too, Mr President, are in favour of it. Søren Espersen, sometimes problematizing conditions in Denmark, conditions in Greenland and trying to see what it looks like, whether it is true that the attitude is this way, whether it is true that we may come to a different conclusion after the evaluation. That is what political debate is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123826	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123828	Thank you. I will say this very briefly. I hope the rapporteur agrees that this amendment is based on a very clear division of roles which has been adopted both here in Denmark and in Greenland. So this is to phase in L 208. What the rapporteur is talking about is a very wide-ranging debate, which is based both on Greenland, but also on Denmark, and which we must certainly take at a different time and certainly not here in connection with L 192.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123902	The Socialist rapporteur is not right about that. We have that tradition, and our new government from last year has even emphasised in the paper of understanding that we need to have a better and greater dialogue on all issues • even foreign policy is under discussion • together with the Greenlanders. And that is why it is also important that we have as good a dialogue as possible and not just send a formal letter, which is why I also allow myself to raise some of the questions that are being asked and where it is said that there may be something there and there, especially from the Institute for Human Rights in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123938	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next is Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Klausen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529123951	Thank you. Greenland has been very lucky, but also good in connection with the coronasmitten. From the beginning, rapid and vigorous action was taken, and fruitage proved to be rapid. When corona ravaged the rest of the world, Greenland had only 11 infected people, all of whom have recovered. Then 11 weeks went by when there was no infection until another case was recorded on Monday. Here again, rapid reactions were made, and the chain of infection was detected. I think that is very welcome news at a time when many other countries have had such great problems. But although Greenland has been lucky in relation to the number of infected, a pandemic will still hit the country hard on the economy. You can't avoid that. So I hope that the efforts of the self-government to keep the pandemic down and open up the economy again in a healthful way will succeed them. Greenland's self-government has taken the necessary measures and itself taken the initiative to change the legislation so that they can react easily and quickly if needed. Of course, it is crucial that the national authorities in Greenland are equipped and have the necessary tools to prevent and counteract the spread of covid-19 in Greenland as much as possible. So, of course, we can only support Greenland by approving the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124113	Thank you. The next one is sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. I'm sorry, there's a little disturbance in the room. I just can't locate if it's down back or how. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124138	Thank you for the floor. The Corona virus has created a whole new situation also in Greenland. In New Citizens, we fully understand the starting point of the bill, which is the protection of citizens' health. L 192 gives competence to take a number of measures against the introduction and spread of dangerous infectious diseases, including covid-19. The most important elements are that the draft law authorizes the establishment of provisions permitting far-reaching intervention, including in the form of restrictions on fundamental rights, which must be seen in the light of the threat posed by the corona crisis to its citizens and health care. The threat picture is changing at great speed. It is therefore essential that the legal basis which the legislators may need is guaranteed in advance in Greenland. There could be another wave. I note that the draft law with few deviations corresponds to the amendment of the law on measures against infectious diseases and other communicable diseases adopted by the Danish Parliament about mid-March of this year. I have also noted that the draft law has been consulted by a number of the draft law's comments on specific consultation parties. There are some objections to the bill, but there has been a sensible dialogue in the legislative committees. The Greenland Human Rights Council had some comments regarding access to premises for control purposes. It is now stated in L 192 that access does not include access to private homes. New citizens can therefore support the adoption of L 192.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124314	Thank you for that, and we'll move on to Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124328	Thank you. We can support responding to the Greenlandic desire that they can have extended powers to deal with the Coronasmitten. Then you can always move into major discussions about how best to combat the infection, whether you should follow the recommendations of the health authorities or you should follow a more rigorous course and back and forth. After all, however, it must first of all be Greenlandic self-government that has the opportunity to do so in the way that they find best politically in accordance with local conditions. That is why there is only a brief support here, and I look forward to the discussions that are waiting for many months on what has been done well and badly in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124420	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124432	Thank you very much for the floor. Inuit Ataqatigiit thanks the government for submitting the proposal. In general terms, we are also in favour of the new powers in the draft law, also as a result of the Corona situation, but we do have some comments to make. The bill should have been dealt with by Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, before we deal with draft legislation relating to Greenland, here in the Folketing, and even in these special times we also think it is important to respect it. IA supports that criminal services in Greenland will be given wider opportunities to protect inmates and employees, if for example: A family member will visit an inmate. It is important to prevent and take due care, even though today we have very few cases of corona in Greenland, and there is no doubt that the necessary cases, where it may be impossible to fulfil obligations and rights, must be covered by this law. But when it comes to the slightly broader wording of the bill, including when we have to start interpreting when derogations are required or when it is relatively difficult, it becomes more subjective, and with that power we also put a really great power in the hands of the minister, and here we may be concerned that it will be a slippery slope. For example: We know that there are already problems with the shortage of staff in the institutions, and there we may be concerned that visitors are being shut down very quickly precisely because of this, and we are actually saying this simply because we think it is important that we think very carefully. In connection with the discussion of the Greenland epidemic law, Inuit Ataqatigiit supported the general reports, which were due to a reduction in the fundamental rights included in their hearing response by the Greenland Human Rights Council, and also the IA in Inatsisartut wanted the Greenland epidemic law to be abolished when the epidemic is over, and so we would like to hear from the Minister in relation to this bill: will this law be repealed when the epidemic is over in Greenland if it is over by 31 December 2021? Does the law change apply to everyone under the executive, and what will it mean for the police and the police? Finally, we wonder why this bill was not dealt with immediately following the Greenland epidemic law, which was dealt with on 1 April of this year. With these words, we thank the draft law and generally support the tightening-up, but we hope to clarify the questions that we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124735	Thank you. And there are no brief comments, so that is why it is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124745	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive comments. As I understand it, all parties in the Folketing intend to vote in favour of this bill, which is here, and which is basically about giving the opportunity to if the corona disease should get hold of, for example. Greenland, when aviation gets started again ■ to actually take the measures that would be desirable. A few questions have been raised, among others. I think we should look at that in relation to the sunset clause and the end. I just want to point out that this is not about it, but it is in relation to some of the other issues that have been raised that it is now the case that it already follows from the Self-Government Act that draft administrative regulations covering Greenland before the issue would be sent to Greenland's Self-Government for opinion, and this means that when this law, which is of course an authorisation law, has to be implemented or applied, and I, as a minister, have to issue relevant decrees, then the autonomy will be involved before any rules are issued. And shouldn't that be the case? Because what would be my interest in laying down rules which the Greenlanders consider irrelevant? No one at all and therefore, of course, this will take place in a good and close dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124924	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529124927	I would like to hear from the Minister two things. One: will it be possible for us to organise the rest of the legislative work in such a way that the Greenlanders have the opportunity to deal effectively with it and debate it? That is the one thing that we have actually promised each other many, many years ago, namely that we are making law in Denmark. That is one thing, and I am well aware that the Greenlanders of course mean it when they say they want this law. The second thing is that the Kingdom is made up of a third party. How do the Faroe Islands view the mainstreaming of the law of the Kingdom in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125003	But the Greenlanders are involved. The Home Rule Government of Greenland, as has been mentioned, has acceded to the bill on 13 May 2020, just as Greenlandic MPs have the opportunity to take part in the debate, and they are taking part in the debate here today, so I think we are taking a fairly safe place there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125027	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125029	I had another question with regard to the third party in the Kingdom Community (the Minister of Justice Well, yes, that's right). How do the Faroe Islands compare to this? After all, they have chosen different methods than we have, and apparently with quite a great deal of success, it has to be said, because in some areas at least they have got through the Corona crisis better than we and the Greenlanders are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125049	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125050	But this proposal concerns Greenland alone. There is no regulation in it at all which concerns the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125103	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125119	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125144	Thank you very much for the floor, President. The Liberal Alliance has tabled a motion for a resolution to abolish the offsetting of wage income in the retirement pension. The aim of the proposal is to require the government to submit legislative proposals during the current parliamentary year to abolish the offsetting of wage income in the basic amount of the national pension and pension supplements. As I understand the proposal, it also includes the abolition of set-off in the national pension on the basis of a spouse's or collector's wage income. The government would like to see even more seniors who can and will continue to work, but we are also in the government concerned with seniors who cannot work after the retirement age, yes, who cannot even work until they reach retirement age. The government will therefore introduce a right to early retirement. A right to early retirement must help those who have started early on the labour market and who have worked hard for many years so that they can retire before they are worn out. This is a growing need as the retirement age increases in the coming years. At the same time, we see that support for the early retirement scheme is declining. In 2006, almost 63 per cent paid. by the members of the cashier into early retirement. By 2019 that figure had fallen to just over 16%, and the vast majority of them are over 50 years old. That is why action is needed. We will present our proposal for a right to early retirement as soon as possible after the summer break and then start negotiations. In recent years, the government has helped to introduce a number of measures which have made it economically more attractive to work after the age of the population. The basic allowance for the income of pensioners for personal work has been increased by two laps, so it now amounts to DKK 122,004. a year, and a reduction in the amount of the retirement pension on the basis of the income of a non-retired spouse or collector has been made. This means that pensioners who work next to the retirement pension receive more money in their hands. I think that is a good thing. In addition, it has also become more economically attractive to remain in the labour market after the age of retirement. A tax-free senior premium has been introduced for persons working after the retirement age. The prize is 42,840 DKK. to work the first year after the retirement age and 25,500 DKK. for the second year after the retirement age. Let's see how these measures work before we start talking about further steps like this. to abolish any set-off in the national pension. In addition, you can postpone your pension until later if you want to work a lot during the first year after reaching the age of retirement. So you do not have to receive a national pension simply because you have reached the age of a national pension. And if you choose to postpone your pension, you get a higher current pension payment when you finally choose to retire. For the government, it is important that we take into account the overall economic situation of the citizens, including their own wage incomes of a certain size and any wage income of a spouse or partner. The rules on the offsetting of wage income in the national pension contribute to targeting those who have the least and thus to ensuring that the welfare society and the tax-financed benefits are targeted at those who need it most. I think we should stick to this fundamental principle of solidarity in our societies. The abolition of the set-off of wage income in the public pension is estimated to weaken the general government balance by about 600 million. kr. after tax and backflow and behavior in 2020. In addition, it is expected that in the short term there will be no substantial additional expenditure on public pension for people who are not receiving a national pension today because they have postponed their pension. Only over a few years will this expenditure be partly offset by lower expenditure on deferred pensions. For these reasons, the Government has no current plans to completely eliminate the offsetting of wage income in the national pension. However, I welcome the Senior Thinking Tank's recommendation that a Commission should look at simplifying the rules of the pension system. I would also like to add a few comments to the proposed funding in the motion for a resolution. The proposed funding involves abolishing temporary family allowances, re-establishing the right of residence and re-rolling the increase in the rate of human, social, commercial and theological education. The Government does not intend to provide funding by abolishing some of these elements. In the short term, temporary family allowances will help to alleviate the problems of child poverty. The next step is recommendations from the Service Commission for a new cash assistance system that takes into account families with children and where there is a clear benefit from working. It is an important priority for the government that children grow up in proper conditions and with the opportunity to be an active part of the community. At the same time, it is important to note that the temporary allowance is a temporary one. For this reason, funding has only been provided for a temporary period, and therefore the temporary family allowance cannot be used as permanent financing of the motion for a resolution. The government is in favour of profit principles for the right to Danish welfare benefits, but we are not in favour of symbolic residence requirements which harm more than they benefit and which, in our view, are adversely affected and create uncertainty. And the residence requirement is damaging the Danish labour market. The residence requirement harms our Danish flexicurity system, which is an essential part of the reason why we have a flexible and secure labour market; all that to the benefit of both workers, employers and society at all. For several reasons, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125732	Thank you. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125736	Thank you. For several reasons, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. So let's just minimize the number of reasons from a start. After all, if financing were changed, it could be changed to being financed by a lower consumption of public consultants. After all, the government still chooses to overpay consultants with more than 2 billion. kr.; 3 billion can be saved. kr., but you have chosen to save only 800 million. kr., so you could take 600 million. kr. Let us say that it was funding instead of the Socialist election campaign promise of less spending on consultants. Would the government be more kind to look at removing the set-off in pension income? In fact, it is the same recommendation that Harald Børsting has made and that the Senior Thinking Tank has made, because there is a fundamental injustice and inappropriateness in that for some folk pensioners, when they choose to work, the tax on the last earned crown is 77 percent.; that is, when they work an hour and get, let's say 100 kr. extra, they're gonna have to deliver 77 kroner. to the public and can therefore only keep 23 kroner. to himself. That's why Harald Børsting is out to say that it's completely wrong and that you should do something about that. So if the funding were different according to the social democratic wish, would this be done? Or why do you disagree with Harald Børsting?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125851	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125853	First of all, I would like to say that we are not opposed to looking at how adjustments can be made in the future in the pension system, that is to say, where we keep looking at whether there is a proper balance, in relation to whether it is attractive for a folk pensionist to work a few hours. That is also why it has been added as one of the elements of the mandate that we will be discussing shortly in the conciliation circle on senior pensions, because we think it is precisely wise that we should learn more about this issue. That's the first thing. The second is that the general abolition of set-off in the old-age pension, that is to say, the fact that, for reasons of principle, the retirement pension ends up being a form of civil pay, where there is no upper limit on the amount of work to be done alongside or similar, we are opposed in the government, because we basically believe that our welfare benefits should be targeted as much as possible, for reasons of solidarity, to those who need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125951	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529125954	Thank you. I do not think you need to set up a commission to learn whether it is a good idea to have a marginal tax of 77 per cent. for pensioners who choose to work next to the retirement pension. It's not rocket science. And that is also why the Minister opens the door to look at the set-off, but not to abolish it altogether. So is this something the government is going to do in this parliamentary term? Or can we now deny that we are going to look at set-off at all? Or would you like to look at reducing set-off so that you actually recognise that the problem raised today by the Liberal Alliance is so important that the government also has to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130032	I recognise that there may well be some inappropriateness in many different places in our pension system both in terms of whether it is attractive to work for a certain number of hours and how long you will wait to retire. There are also some other shortcomings, which are that we have what Harald Børsting calls paradoxicalness, namely that we have very, very many seniors who have not even reached retirement age and who are unable to find a job, even if they want to continue working. What we are only fundamentally opposed to in principle is to eliminate any form of set-off in the income that may be next to the national pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130110	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments, which is why we are now moving on to the rapporteurs. The first is sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130123	Thank you. We now have to decide whether pensioners can work all they want without having to set off against pensions. In fact, I would first like to thank the Liberal Alliance for addressing this issue, as it is a very important issue. What are we really doing about people's withdrawal? How do we ensure that more people can and will work more? And how do we ensure that those who can't and have worked their whole lives have the opportunity to stop before? These are, in fact, very good questions, I think, to which we politicians must ask ourselves and also have answers. Because I believe that we need even more people to be able and will work longer, while at the same time we need a fair system that sends home those who have contributed their entire lives and just can't do it anymore. This resolution is about ensuring that more will work longer. Fortunately, more and more people both want and can, but I should not deny that there are more hands to be picked up if we do the right thing. That is why, in recent years, we have also made some good changes across the parties, which should make it more attractive for pensioners to stay a little longer on the job. After all, the minister mentioned some of them: We have increased the basic allowance so that you can now earn DKK 122,000. a year before it is offset and we have introduced a tax-free senior premium. At the same time, you can actually get a pension and get a pension later with an additional supplement for that time. So, in the view of the Social Democrats, we have done a great deal, and we certainly believe that it is attractive to be a little extra time on the labour market. But, of course, as the Minister said, we can always do more. I would like to acknowledge that the rules may also seem incalculable and that this may mean that fewer people actually make use of the arrangements. And here, of course, we must also take up that discussion and follow the Senior Think Tank's recommendation and make them more comprehensible. When I talk to some people whether they want to choose to work or not, many of them say they don't, because they actually don't understand the rules, they don't know what it means to them, and it's clear that it doesn't work. If you have to look at who will get something out of this resolution, there are many of them who will actually get something out of it that benefits well and is at the top tax level. This means that abolishing this set-off will not, as is now the case, ensure that our welfare system is targeted at those who need it, but is actually targeted at those who do not. And if you look at the funding, I just have to say that it is becoming increasingly clear that it is typically Liberal Alliance policy. Because who's gonna pay the bill? Yes, it is the families of children who have the least, it is the unemployed, and it is the students. So no, we cannot support this proposal, but we certainly believe, and that is also why I thanked you for addressing the issue, that it is important to discuss how we ensure that even more will and can work longer, but also how we take good care of those who cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130426	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130429	I am glad that the proposal recognizes the Liberal Alliance, because it is true that we are consistently on the side of the working people, and we think it is important that people who go to work can have a little more for themselves, instead of asking people who go to work to deliver even more to those who do not want to work or cannot work. So I'll just take that as a compliment. I now hear from both the rapporteur and the Minister, for that matter, that we have done a great deal, and then all the things that have been done as a result of the agreement that Social Democracy was not in during the last parliamentary term on senior pensions are mentioned. And it is true that some good things have been done, and the rapporteur also mentions that we need to look at this work of the Commission, among other things. The Senior Think Tank's recommendations in relation to the complexity of the rules. But what was the great battle number of the Senior Thinking Tank was actually to get something done by offsetting; lower the tax on the last crown earned for pensioners who would like to work. Is this something that the Social Democratic Party will also look at, but where you just disagree with some details of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130532	I think it is quite clearly wrong to remove all the set-off, because I do not think it is right for those who earn this quite a lot of money. It is the case today that if you make about DKK 600,000, the basic amount will lapse, which means that in future you can get a pension, even if you earn more than that. There's no need for that. I think we need to spend welfare money on someone other than those who already have enough. That is how our whole society is built up: there must be money for those who do not have much for themselves and for those whom we need to take care of. That is why we are not in favour of this proposal to remove the set-off completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130609	Thank you. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Alex Vanopslagh word again? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130614	Very briefly. Those who, as I understand it, are hit the hardest are those who have an income between DKr 360,000. and DKK 435,000. a year. It is not because it is a great deal of money, and when they are hit particularly hard, it is because they are set off in both basic amounts and pension supplements. So if the Liberal Alliance goes back into the workshop and makes a motion for a resolution which removes the set-off for that group, if it is technically possible, will the Social Democrats vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130643	What I can just say is that there are about 17 000 people here, a quarter of all those who are set off, who are actually at top tax levels and earn a great deal, and the Liberal Alliance will give even more money, and that will be paid by the poorest families of children, those on education and the unemployed. We are not in our politics at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130702	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529130711	Thank you. As an employment rapporteur, I hear all too often that people refer to our elderly as a burden. Let me make it clear once and for all: in Denmark we do not have an ageing burden, we have an ageing force. Our seniors have experience and know-how, which is often invaluable in a company or in an institution. They are a strength and fully live up to the term the gray gold. The Danish seniors contribute greatly to an economically sustainable welfare society. That is why it is also the Left's ambition that there should be a clear incentive to work more and more as a senior. In the former VLAK government, the Left helped to take a number of initiatives to strengthen the economic incentive for continued employment as senior. We have among other things. has helped to significantly increase the base allowance and to introduce a new senior premium, so that there is a clear financial gain in working, even if you have reached the age of the population pension. We have also had a senior think tank reduced, and a large number of recommendations have been made, which I find very interesting. For example, it has. the proposal to set up a Commission to look at the simplification of pension rules. We in the Left believe that this is very necessary, and that is why it is also urgent to have the Commission set up, following on from the agreement on senior pensions, to work and also to look at the recommendations of the Senior Think Tank, especially because people are at risk of a very high marginal tax if they continue to work after retirement age. After all, it is not sustainable if we want more people to postpone the hours of interest with the grandchildren and continue a little longer in the work. The purpose of this motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance is, of course, precisely to create a simpler and more reasonable framework for the participation of folk pensioners, and we in the Left are very much in favour of this. Unfortunately, the financing model, as set out in the motion for a resolution, is not compatible with the priorities we have set out in our financial bill for 2020, and, as you know, the money cannot be spent more than once, even in these coronatids. So, for me, it is quite obvious that we need to work with increased focus on simplifying the pension rules, and the work of the future Commission must at least look at that. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal in its present form, but we very much agree with the intentions behind it and look forward to discussing these measures as well in the course of the work of a Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131014	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131017	Thank you and thank you for the very many good arguments for voting in favour of our proposal. I'll take those. I thought they were incredibly well-argued. I understand that it is the funding that we disagree with, but I am rather surprised, because I do not think that the Left is in favour of higher cash aid and various things and matters. However, should we jointly draft an amendment for the committee procedure, where funding is instead done by the use of less public consultants, and then the Left and the Liberal Alliance can vote in favour of the proposal, or are there reasons other than the funding for not being able to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131054	The challenge of funding is not, of course, because we support higher cash aid, but it is because we have used that funding for other actions in our financial bill as it stands for 2020. We would like to discuss with the Liberal Alliance in committee how we can make amendments to this motion for a resolution so that we can also support it, but that requires a strong priority, and I am not here today saying that we will support it completely tomorrow, because we also have other priorities that we would like to pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131125	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen has no further brief comments to make and goes on to the next rapporteur, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131136	Thank you for that, President. We think it is a good proposal from the Liberal Alliance that the offsetting of wage income should be abolished in the basic amount of the national pension and pension supplements. I also understand that it is also the case for a spouse or partner if you have something that is set off in this regard. But we can clarify that. In the Danish People's Party we have always worked to abolish the set-off system, and it is also in line with the fact that when we made the Financial Act for 2019 in 2018, i.e. the Finance Act that was in force in 2019, we agreed with the previous government to increase the base deduction from DKK 60,000 to DKK 100,000 before any set-off took place. And when the senior pension was introduced when we agreed on it this autumn, it was agreed with the current government that we raised it further to DKK 122,000. The Danish People's Party has also been at the forefront of changing pensions, and we also achieved this under the previous government, so that if you continue to work, you can set the pension, and you can even do it in such a way that you can share it, so that you can get something paid in cash and something into the pension. This is entirely in line with what we in the Danish People's Party have been working on all along. We also agreed on a senior prize if you work longer and got it in place. Therefore, it is also important for the Danish People's Party that we have as much set-off removed as possible. Of course, we must also ensure that we have funding to remove that set-off, and we will also continue our work to remove the set-off in the old-age pension and early retirement both for those who receive a pension and for those who also have a spouse or partner, that is to say, someone with whom they live and who is set off in the pension they receive. It is, of course, mainly pension supplements that are most damaging to the ordinary worker. So we will still continue to work for that. That is why it is all very well for this proposal to come. We would also have liked to see early retirement in the proposal, but we also know that it is even greater that we are going to find. But we're ready to keep looking at it. We have so little problem with that funding. We are fully in favour of the temporary family allowance and we are also fully in favour of reintroducing the residence requirement for foreign workers before they can receive unemployment benefit. However, we have problems with the roll-back of the increase in the rate of humanist, social science, commercial and theological education which we cannot participate in. But that's where I get it, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, that one is ready to look at a possible other funding. We are also fully in favour of this in the Danish People's Party. That is the direction in which we want to work, and it is in fact also in line with part of what lies in the citizens' proposal to remove what is called mutual dependents. That is the rules for offsetting the citizens' proposal, and that is also in line with it. So in the Danish People's Party we are ready to work on it, and if we can find a possible solution to the funding, we are also ready to support it. And I understand that from the previous questions from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh that the Liberal Alliance is also ready to see whether another possible funding can be found. So in those words, as I said, I would like to say that this is entirely in line with the work we have been doing in the Danish People's Party for the last few years. We absolutely believe that folk pensioners deserve to keep the money they earn also if their partner earns something so that it is not just set off so that they have nothing out of it. Let's go over this and see what we can find out about possible solutions. But no matter what, we in the Danish People's Party will also do what we can over the summer and over the autumn to process the government to remove more of the set-off rules that lie in both the retirement pension and the early retirement pension. But let us look at the financing of this proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131615	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments and we can therefore move on to Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131625	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for making this proposal. These are not foreign thoughts to me or to the Radical Left. We had the proposal ourselves as part of the financial law negotiations last year. For the work is important for a great many of us, and many seniors also want to work further, even when they have reached retirement age, and that is good for our economy, and it is also good for the seniors who want to work. However, our pension system is designed in such a way that some pensioners may experience a marginal tax of as much as 80%. as a result of the set-off rules if they work. We want a pension system that promotes participation in the labour market. So much praise to the Liberal Alliance for presenting this motion for a resolution. But when I look at the way in which the abolition of set-off is intended to be financed, it is, among other things, the case. in the event of the cancellation of a number of radical landmarks. That is, for example, the case. the temporary family allowance which benefits more than 14 000 vulnerable families; it is by reintroducing the residence requirement for daily allowances, which will mean that we again place the Danes who choose to stay and work abroad at a disadvantage compared to the daily allowance; and finally, we cannot help putting the students at a disadvantage. So thank you for the resolution, but no thanks from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131816	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131820	In this way, you can say, as you have made your bed. After all, you can put forward funding proposals that are exciting to debate or that are realistic to get through with. Let it go. What I also hear is that the small parties in the blue bloc would like to vote in favour of this proposal, and that the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Radical Left say that we might actually do so if the funding is different. So I actually just want to say that I think we should have a cup of coffee, Samira, Hans and Bent. All around and I look forward to it very much. It could all of a sudden be a really fun ending to this assembly. It was just to get a receipt from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131900	It's both sir. And Mrs. And Mrs. And Mrs. And Mrs. And Mrs. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131907	Thanks for inviting me to have tea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131910	Then we thank Mrs. Samira Nawa and move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529131919	It was good to hear today that the government is focused on playing out with a pension reform for the worn-out and the people who have had a lot of years in the labour market. There are high expectations out there, and in this context, the government has focus in the right place. For this resolution is about making it even better for people who have an income in addition to their pensions, despite the fact that we have a number of incentives that already reward them. The proposal costs 600 million. kr., and frankly, I'd rather spend it on the most disadvantaged pensioners. The poorest pensioners need both an economic boost and a great many of them need better and more home help. The 600 million. kr. I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. taken from the poorest children. So the resolution is about giving more to pensioners, who are already doing well today, by taking the money from the children who have the most difficulty and from the members of the cashiers. Yes, yes, we know the Liberal Alliance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132034	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132037	Is Mr. Karsten Hønge agrees with Harald Børsting that there are incredibly great challenges in getting healthy elderly people of the old age to work something more, which is largely due to the set-off rules that are today? Or Mr. Karsten Hønge not at all those problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132102	A number of initiatives have been launched to encourage people to remain in the labour market. Let us see how the money, which I already think is clear enough, works. I actually thought it was such a liberal value that if you can take care of yourself, you do not take money from the public. But what became of that value?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132118	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132122	There are so many liberalist values; one is pragmatically established in a socialist country. If you get both the pension supplement and the basic amount of the pension, that is to say you might work next door and have an income of between DKK 300 000 and DKK 500 000. per year, the marginal tax rate is 77 per cent. - Sir... Karsten Hønge explains in his own words why it is healthy and beneficial for Danish economy and reasonable to deliver 77 DKK. out of 100 DKK, when you are in the income group on folk pension, if it is that you choose to work next to and contribute to the Danish working community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132204	Well, I shouldn't quite deny that there are some places where the interaction is too much. It is certainly possible to find some places where it is not at all related to the pension supplement, how the set-off is. And I am not going to say whether the amount could be increased further for the ordinary pensioner. Now it has been raised sometimes, but I do not want to completely reject it. But it's down to that level. I see no reason why we spend 600 million here. kr. to pensioners who, after all, in comparison with other pensioners, are doing okay and even so zealous and then, I think, socially disgusting, you take it from the people who have the very least.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132239	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132248	Well, I also think it is good to hear that the government is still giving priority to Arne's problems and those who find it difficult to get a working life to link up to retirement age because they are worn out and so that it is still more important problems than those raised in this proposal. In fact, we think that there is a good logic in being able to work and if you do, you can postpone your pension because the pension is intended precisely for those who cannot work. In addition, we think it is good that there is a floor limit to pay income, i.e. when it is set off. So we are actually very pleased with the way the system works at the moment. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132329	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that's why it's now, sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132342	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is proposing to abolish the offsetting of wage income in the basic amount of the national pension and pension supplements. In fact, we in the Conservative People's Party think this is a good proposal, so good a proposal that we proposed it ourselves in September 2019. Because it is fundamentally unfair that you as a pensioner can be withdrawn from your retirement pension if you actually want to lend a hand. Is it not time for Parliament to say that it does not matter that the elderly are given the opportunity to earn a little extra money with which to sweeten their lives? Because it is the case that we have older citizens who will miss the labour market, colleagues and talk about large and small at the coffee machine after they retire. Or maybe they just want to have a little extra money to buy Christmas presents for the grandchildren. At the same time, we have seen that several Danish companies have lacked labour and not only companies, but also institutions. The police could use some of the retired police officers, and the judges, who have so many cases, could also use some of the retired judges. Unfortunately, however, the conditions for some pensioners are so bad that it is not really worthwhile for them to work, even if they actually want to lend a hand. Eliminating the set-off in the retirement pension will therefore benefit both our seniors and the Danish companies. funding this proposal by rerolling the tariff increase for humanist, social and theological education. We do not want that in the Conservative People's Party. The tariff increase has been part of all the financial laws since 2010, also under governments made up of the proposers themselves. We do not want to remove it. That is why we need to be able to look at funding other than the last part of the committee's work, because we support the other parts of the funding. So the Conservative People's Party is therefore generally positive about the proposal, but we need to discuss alternative funding options during committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132605	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132608	Yes, it will be very brief. Thanks for the nice reception. After all, there are parties that want to look constructively at this if funding is changed, and I think we should look at this either bilaterally or in committee. So that is just a brief thank you from here, and I do not need to speak again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132624	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Naser Khader. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132646	I'll be brief when it took a while to get up here. In new citizens, we think it is an excellent proposal, and we can support that. There may be a little about funding, but we consider that to be small things. In the past, we saw that it could be external consultants, and we think that is a good idea. So let's just get this adopted and give pensioners a little air in the economy. They deserve that. They have worked hard for Denmark for many years. So let's give them a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132724	Thank you, President. The good thing about this proposal is that you want to motivate pensioners to work longer, that they can keep more of their wages, and that, in the alternative, is, as a starting point, an excellent solution. It's voluntary if you want to do it. On the other hand, we do not like it if people are to be forced to work any longer. So from this point of view it is a fine proposal and it seems interesting at a time when there has recently been, and hopefully again, demand for labour and where we need to be better at getting older people into the labour market. In the same way as with both S and SF, it is my concern that this proposal will support some people who already sit fairly well in it, so if you had to continue working on it, I would also like to have a targeting so that it is those who have the least money to benefit from this proposal. As far as funding is concerned, there is not much of what we can eat, and it may not come as a surprise to LA, but we would also like to join the choir of those who think it is an interesting proposal which, with the right funding and the right targeting, might turn into something along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529132901	Now I quote: make no mistake, even though most old-age pensioners do not stand up and say that they would like to continue working because they have... I quote completely wrong. This is starting really well. I'm gonna have to see what kind of papers I got stuck in my hand on the way down here. Don't worry about it! It was a Harald Børsting quote, where he really lingers, because most pensioners would like to continue working, but it is therefore also a matter of money and economy, and it is as if politicians are completely blind to it. It's like something's gone wrong with this quote. It was a fantastic start to this rapporteur's speech, but it was just to say that there are a large number of experts, including the senior think tank chairman, Harald Børsting, who has pointed to this problem, both with the complexity of the set-off rules, but in particular with the high marginal tax, which is such a CEPOS-like word for the tax on the last earned crown. Grellest stands for those who earn between DKr 350,000 and DKr 480,000 alongside the national pension, because there is their marginal tax rate of 77 percent. This means that when they work an extra hour, they have to deliver 77 kroner. out of 100 kroner. back to the state, and therefore there are many of those who do not want to work an hour extra, although there is enormous potential in getting more hands out into the labour market and exploiting the resources in the form of smart heads and skilled hands that are still in the elderly. It is a pity that this is the case, and it is actually a bottom-up task to do something about it, and I hear that we have to do something about it, but there are, of course, different considerations to take into account. There are both some principles, i.e. whether there should be a set-off at all. No, there should be no social imbalance, and of course there should be something about the funding itself. But it is a general problem, whether you make little money or a lot of money next to the national pension, whether you get pension supplements or not, that marginal taxation is de facto incredibly high, and therefore too many people are not able to pay themselves to exchange free time for work, even if you might actually want to. Now it is Friday, and I am not going to put any speeches on Facebook, so I think I am going to skip the big battle speech about the unreasonable social democratic welfare state that robs people of their freedom and desire for work, and what do I know about. I would like to sign up for a very good debate, in which I actually note that more people are in favour of the proposal if the funding is different, and then perhaps there should also be some other technical amendments to the proposal that I should not quite be able to say. But I really think that is uplifting, and let us take it further, because it would be good to make a difference. Even though the government may be a little on the hands of this task, it doesn't mean that all of us need to do the same. So thank you for a fine debate. I look forward to further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133206	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133217	It's a quick question. I just need to hear what happens to that liberal thinking that if you can take care of yourself as a citizen, you have to do it without having anything from the public. Where's it goin'?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133223	I understand the question, because that is actually fair in a sense. There are, of course, some areas in which we have to ask whether it is not reasonable to set off. If you're a multimillionaire, do you need child support? No, I don't think so. I feel that in some areas I think it would be healthy to break up with the social democratic principle of universal welfare, because what universal welfare also sets down is that one should make such rules for everyone, and with one's rules comes silo thinking, bureaucracy and inappropriateness, and that is the national pension system and the set-off rules the prime example of. So yes, in my hottest, wet liberal dreams I would like to see some rather radical reforms of different parts of the transfer income systems in Denmark, but I will not get through with them, at least for the time being. So I do have the pragmatic approach, of course, that we have to deal with those areas where the injustices or inappropriateness are greatest. And it is both unreasonable with a marginal taxation rate of 77 per cent. of old-age pensioners who want to work alongside the old-age pension, and that is also inappropriate for the Danish economy, and that is why I am focusing on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133328	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133331	We in the Social Democratic Party generally feel that if you can support yourself and your own, you must, of course, do so, and that is also why we support the fact that if you make quite a lot of money, you obviously do not need a pension. Another point on which the Liberal Alliance agrees with us is that in the case of cash aid recipients, whom the Liberal Alliance also believes must support themselves, and that is why there must be mutual dependants, but in the case of pensioners who have enough money, it is obvious that there should not be. Can the rapporteur not see that there are some problems here in relation to liberal politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133406	No, let us rather turn it around and say that then there is a problem in relation to the social democratic policy which supposedly should be that those who can do it themselves, unless they are unemployed and have children, they must be rewarded because they have children and are unemployed at the same time. This is what has been done with the temporary allowance, the family allowance for cash benefit recipients. There is the idea that it may well be that you can work, but at least you are not in work, you get cash benefits, and now you get a reward because you both have children and do not have a job. That is a strange thinking, and it should be the case that only extra subsidies are given to those who are particularly hard hit and who cannot be available for the labour market and who should perhaps not be on cash aid at all. So I think it is the Social Democratic Party which has a problem of explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133440	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133446	Thank you. As far as I can see, spouse dependency is included in these calculations, i.e. not only should you not earn so much if you are an early-retirer, without being highly taxed, but also that your spouse is drawn into your support if the spouse works. Isn't it true that that part is rained into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133521	In fact, I must be honest and admit that I am unsure about that. I must be guilty of replying; I know it is my own motion for a resolution, but it is actually the honest answer that I am unsure of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133529	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133531	Fair enough, fair enough. It's complicated matter, and it was actually an honest question. It was not a question of questioning the rapporteur, but rather of saying that we have, after all, been discussing the abolition of mutual dependents, which in this area is called spouse dependency. It is a different way to go to ensure that if you have a job, i.e. if you as a pensioner work, your spouse is not drawn. This will increase the disposable household income. So as we think about continuing to work on this, could it be something that the rapporteur would help to look at together with the alternative and the other parties who would like to attack it from that angle?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133608	I would like to see it adjusted in those areas where an adjustment would lead to an increase in the supply of labour, in other words where, overall, it would mean that a couple or a family would work more. And that's what calculations have been made that I can't remember in my head. It is quite clear that it is Friday: I misread quotes, have doubts about my own motion for a resolution and do not remember various long parliamentary answers in my head. But there was one of them that I think was about early retirement. And there is the fact that the husband or wife of the early retirement pensionist is holding back to work for an extra hour, because overall it is not worth it because there is too much de facto marginal tax, and for the defined groups it may be appropriate to look at the mutual dependent. But, at all events, we cannot agree to the removal of the mutual dependent for all of us in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133653	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133656	I was a little surprised at the expression of the Social Democratic Party that those who can take care of themselves should not have public funds. I do not recall seeing a resolution from the Social Democratic Party to remove the children's check completely. Nor do I recall seeing a resolution from the Social Democratic Party that people who have a fortune should be completely removed from their pensions. If you have a big fortune of maybe 3, 4 or 5 million. kr., it must also be said that you may well be able to finance your own life. However, I do not recall seeing the proposal from the Social Democratic Party which says that the basic premise for pensions and such things must be completely removed. So can the rapporteur tell us whether the rapporteur has seen these proposals? Otherwise, what the Social Democratic Party says is not related.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133739	No, and I do not recall that the Social Democratic Party voted in favour of the new citizens' proposal to demand 100 per cent. self-support for non-western immigrants when they arrive here. If you know social democratic policy, you know that it was in the old days when it was a party for those who supported themselves. In modern times it is a party for those who cannot or will not support themselves or those who support themselves through the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133801	Will Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen have the floor again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133804	I think the rapporteur came around very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133808	That was an opportunity to say thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133824	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529133846	Thank you for the floor, President. Our daily allowance system is constantly in the spotlight and with good reason, because it is a central cornerstone of our Danish flexicurity model. The daily allowance system has therefore also been in focus during the corona crisis, where, in the exceptional situation, among others. has been introduced a break in the daily allowance consumption and has been made more flexible rules to obtain supplementary benefit under the work-sharing scheme. Because the situation has changed significantly since this resolution was tabled back in January 2020. This does not change the fact that we must never take the benefit system for granted, so thank you also to Enhedslisten to remind us of it. The motion for a resolution we are debating today requires the government to call for negotiations in this Assembly in order to stop the erosion of the value of the daily allowance. The reason for the proposal is that the security of the benefit system is weakened. Reference shall be made, inter alia, to: to figures from FH that the gross compensation rate for ordinary employees should have decreased over the last 25 years from 57%. in 1994 to 48%. Today. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the government is very concerned about the fact that we have an unemployment benefit system which is financially secure and has broad public support. I believe that we are all proud from left to right here in Parliament and recognise how much the Danish flexicurity model means for our labour market and the ability to create jobs in Denmark. The daily allowance system provides workers with security if they lose their jobs and provides flexibility for companies that can quickly adapt to new times and new markets. If employees do not feel that the benefit system provides them with security, we run the risk that, for example, they will require greater security in the job • it may be during a somewhat longer period of notice. If companies are not able to adapt their employment relatively easily, they will be reluctant to employ. And then the foundations of our flexible labour market, our flexicurity. Even in times that we are experiencing now, the flexicurity model is valuable. Although the government has taken a number of steps to hold hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs, unemployment has unfortunately increased. The flexibility of the labour market can help employers to take on jobs more quickly when they see a full order book again, and this could affect other companies, for example. sub-contractors who also get more to do. I have a fervent belief that the Danish flexicurity model will help us get through the crisis better than would be done with the vast majority of other social models around the world. The government would therefore like to strengthen our benefit system, so the Danish flexicurity model is strong and solid, also in the future. We're on it. We started by removing the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit, which met great criticism from virtually all parts of society. And that is because the residence requirement created insecurity among the many Danes who work or want to work abroad. It not only hampers international mobility, it also causes people to withdraw from the a-box, thereby damaging the support for our benefit system. More can be done, but the abolition of the residence requirement is a first important step in strengthening the benefit system. And I'm actually proud that we had that residence claim removed. I believe and agree with Enhedslisten and the trade union movement that an essential condition for people to insure themselves against unemployment in the future is that it is still attractive to be insured. Of course, we cannot avoid the level of compensation here. It certainly doesn't matter what compensation you get if you lose your job. When you look at the trend in the level of compensation, things quickly become complicated because there is not just one way to determine the level of compensation but different methodological approaches. That is why we also see different figures in the public debate. FH's calculation of the level of compensation referred to by Enhedslisten in the comments on the proposal includes pension. In this respect, their method of calculation is different from the method used by the benefit commission. In their analysis of the level of compensation, the Commission indicated that the benefit system should be seen primarily as an insurance against the immediate loss of income experienced by persons at the time of the transition from employment to unemployment, and not as an insurance against loss of life income. With the methodology of the benefit commission, the level of compensation has been relatively stable over a long period of time. However, the 2012 Tax Agreement means that the daily allowance will be adjusted less than the wage trend up to 2023. I am very aware of that. Smaller regulation is phased in so that it amounted to 0.3 per cent. In 2016, 0.4 per cent. in 2017 and 0,75%; in 2018 and up to 2023. In addition, the agreement on the new regulation of retirement pensions and the introduction of compulsory savings for transfer recipients provides for 0.3 per cent of the total. the annual adjustment of the daily allowance from 2020 shall be allocated to the benefit recipients' own pension savings. The amount of the daily allowance is therefore not adjusted at the same rate as the salary in the years to come. The government will therefore follow the development of the level of compensation very closely, but we will also be open about the fact that the government is currently looking firmly at dealing with the corona crisis and holding hands under Danish economy and maintaining Danish jobs. That is why we have implemented a number of aid packages. The aid packages also include, for example, compensation for employees, compensation for self-employed workers and compensation for freelancers with different types of income. We have made aid packages for companies and employees, etc., which contain direct grants for about 100 billion. kr. This year. In addition, measures in the form of guarantees and deferment of payment periods, which support the liquidity of companies by approx. 300 billion. kr. The aid packages have been implemented on the basis of the clear conviction that the cost to Danish society would be much greater if they had not been implemented. The focus is on the fact that as few people as possible become unemployed and as many as possible can return to their work as soon as possible. Here I would like to state openly that measures to improve the level of compensation for unemployment benefit are not part of the government's immediate management of the corona crisis. Therefore, the government will not now call for negotiations on the level of compensation for unemployment benefits. This does not preclude us from looking at the level of compensation at a later stage. I would also like to say that I am always responsive when there are good suggestions on how to strengthen the Danish flexicurity model, but at the same time I would like suggestions on how to find the money for it. Because, of course, there will be costs if the level of compensation is to be improved. The comments on the motion for a resolution show that the government can benefit from including earlier proposals from the FH in the negotiations. FH has e.g. in the context of the 2020 Finance Law negotiations, proposed to abolish the forward-looking less-regulation of daily allowances. It was in reply to Question No 1 that the Commission was not in a position to reply to the honourable Member's question. 118 to the Employment Committee estimated that this phase-in would cost about 1.1 billion. kr. to abolish, on an annual basis, the forward-looking minor regulation. However, it should be noted that this assessment was carried out prior to the outbreak of the corona virus in Denmark and that there may therefore have been changes in the calculation assumptions. At the same time, the assessment does not consider whether the abolition of minor regulation should also apply to other elements normally following the benefit, e.g.: maternity benefit, sickness benefit or the contributions of members of the State. Because if they do, the overall cost will be higher. The resolution also mentions that there has been a large increase in private wage insurance. That's right. Insurance & Pension statements show that in 2006 there were around 80,000 private wage insurance insurance schemes, while in 2018 there were approx. 340,000 private wage insurance. Although the number has increased, it is still barely every eight Danes in the labour force who, in 2018, had taken out private wage insurance. By comparison, three out of four in the labour force are members of an unemployment fund, and this has been the case over the past many years. Thus, the benefit system remains the Danes' preferred insurance against unemployment. However, I am very aware of the development of private wage insurance and will, of course, follow it closely and with particular attention to whether it affects connection to the benefit system. This applies in particular to the development of private wage insurance, which is not based on the benefit system. At the same time, I would also like to make it quite clear that I am having a difficult time with private wage insurance, which does not require cash membership and is targeted at particularly strong groups in the labour market, i.e. a form of first-class insurance. They do not support the benefit system and that all employees have the opportunity to experience the security that is an essential part of the flexicurity model. That is why I am currently looking at the problem of these private wage insurances that do not require cash membership. And I can clearly say that this government is not going to support the fact that more people choose that type of scheme. On the contrary, I am concerned that the benefit system must be an attractive insurance scheme and a fundamental safeguard against loss of income if you lose your job. Finally, I would like to pick up. The government will strengthen the Danish model and follow the forward-looking development in the level of compensation closely. Currently, the government focuses on measures that hold hands during Danish jobs during the corona crisis. We do not deny that we will do anything about the level of compensation later, and we will follow developments closely. We have also launched an evaluation of the agreement on a safer benefit system, where it is important to me that we get a good picture of whether we have a well-functioning benefit system. Here the conciliation circle can bring up important issues. However, negotiations are not on the drawing board right now, as the motion for a resolution proposes. That is why the government cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529134910	There are brief comments. First to Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529134916	Well, that's a very clear message. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Corona situation itself has changed the perception of the reality of the erosion of benefit coverage. I have at least heard in many public debates that more and more people are becoming aware of how much this actually means that the allowance can account for half of the income previously received, and I would like to ask whether it has impressed the Minister that it has been a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529134939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529134941	Thank you for the question. In fact, I would say that there are two things that have impressed me in that debate and they are in fact moving in different directions. Certainly it makes a great impression when you meet people who have lost their jobs and suddenly discover that they have to go either a third or, for some, even half down on income. Of course it makes an impression. What also makes an impression, and especially when you read the expert group's report, which came last Wednesday, is how many people have actually discovered how extremely disadvantaged you are, if you are not insured, and that is why the expert group has more or less proposed, and it is worth a major discussion that you should be able to take out a fire insurance when it burns, that is. give amnesty for a shorter period for those who have not previously been a member of an unemployment insurance fund well enough on condition that you pay for both a full year before and a full year after and how it would have to be done technically is a major discussion. But it also impresses me, that is, all the many citizens out there who are sitting right now and have not been insured and suddenly discover that when there comes an international pandemic of this nature, you're standing with the back end somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135052	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135056	Well, then I would like to point out that if you're next door to a fireworks factory, it's more expensive to take out a fire insurance policy. It is also more expensive if you are less permanent than an employee to take out an additional insurance, and that is what makes it possible for us to use the supplementary insurance plan as a symbol of the fact that there is something really, really wrong with our benefit system. And then I would like to point out that, even if you use the net compensation rate, in 2023 we will be down to 58 per cent. of the average wage income.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135129	My explanation of the various methods of inventory was not to neglect the relevant discussion. It was just to say that the reason why I believe that many ordinary citizens, but for that matter also many politicians, including myself, may get confused in this debate here, is that there are many different ways of calculating it and that those numbers are being thrown around in the discussion. Therefore, I just thought it was important to get fenced in, what it is that includes pension, what does not include pension, and who uses the different methods of inventory.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135158	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135206	It is gratifying that the government will not support the Enhedslisten resolution. However, in the speech by the Minister for Employment, I miss one of the main reasons why we should not do so, namely that if we increase the level of compensation proposed by the Enhedslisten, more people will report to the unemployed and go on unemployment benefits. Can the Minister for Employment confirm that this is what the Government's figures show, as the Ministry of Employment's figures show? Is the Minister for Employment also of the opinion that if you raise the level of compensation, more people will report as unemployed and go on unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135246	I can confirm that on the basis of the calculation assumptions used in that assessment, it is the assumption that more people will report as unemployed if it is that the level of compensation is improved. However, I also believe, and I certainly do not neglect, that it may be the case for some people that it is still uncultivated country, that we are looking at what the value is, also for the economy and for that matter for employment, that it is also quite attractive that people continue to join an unemployment insurance fund and pay for their own insurance against unemployment. And that is an element of the debate that I do not think is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135329	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135333	Yes, it is valuable for people to insure themselves against unemployment, especially if they themselves pay for their insurance. If it's all government-paid, maybe it's not that valuable. Well, then it's kind of just a luxury cash aid. But can the Minister for Employment explain how it really is that there is the mechanism, that if you raise the daily allowance, there are more people walking around and being unemployed? Because we do have some rules of availability that say that people should be at work. So why is it that there will be more available when you get more money as available?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135409	Well, the assumption on the basis of the calculations that I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen knows just as well as I do, perhaps even better, because I think he is overly cultivating some of the elements that are that the incentive to take care of a job will be less. I mean, and I think there are more and more voices out there, including economics professors, who say that some of the assumptions are out of date and can be discussed. And that is also why this government, together with a number of other parties, has set aside a large amount of money to research exactly the assumptions underlying the way we calculate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135448	Thank you for that, President. I have to make something clear, and I think we certainly agree on that: of course, we recommend that all people join an unemployment fund. There should be no doubt about that. The best guarantee is that you join an A-box, no matter what job you have. But you have to join an A-box. It supports the Danish People's Party, it supports the government. I'm aware of that. But there's something I just need to make sure I understand correctly. We know that there has been a great desire from the trade union movement to discuss the cover contribution. And it is in the light of that that the resolution has been tabled here. Does this mean that the Minister for Employment refuses to discuss the cover contribution, that is to say whether it is the right place, whether it should be raised a little or whether it should not be touched at all, or how and how? Because I understood the Minister for Employment that it was not possible to talk about it at all and that it has been debated. The government will not discuss whether there should be any changes to the cover contribution. It's just that I get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135551	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135555	Well, then, sir. Bent Bøgsted didn't get it right. Because, as I was also told several times in my rapporteur's speech, we do not refuse to discuss the level of compensation, and we are also following it very closely. What we reject is the concrete motion for a resolution which requires the government, at the request of others, to call for genuine negotiations on the level of compensation. That is where we think there is a sequence of tasks that we are doing right now in the Corona crisis, and that we also think it is relevant to learn more about the problem at all. And if you want the government to go in that direction too, and that is one of the things I also mentioned here, you can also give funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135643	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135645	Then I think I may have understood it correctly, namely that it is because there are negotiations. That is how it has been interpreted. Does this mean, however, that the Minister for Employment is ready to discuss in the conciliation circle the level, the appropriateness and the whole thing, so that we can discuss with the parties responsible for the agreement on daily allowances so that we can talk about what it looks like there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135718	In fact, I believe, and I think I was actually able to say this in the public debate when the motion for a resolution was first tabled, that in the autumn, in the benefit circle, we will actually have a status meeting on how things are going. After all, it is written in the agreement that five years after the conclusion of the agreement, it is necessary to evaluate how the benefit agreement was made back in 2015. And it will then be a nearby time in that circle to discuss this issue as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135743	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135745	A-kassen Ase played out a while ago with such a product that was aimed at approx. 250,000 people with the most secure jobs. And their expectation was to deduct it from taxes. I remember very well that the Minister said that he would be somewhat critical of that. I simply do not recall the status of this matter. Well, where is it? Is the case over? Do they have the right to deduct the extra wage insurance from tax, or are they still under assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135814	I do not necessarily know whether it is an assessment, because it is quite rightly remembered by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge. But it can be said that we did not manage to do much about it, all the time that not so long after we started the work of looking at it, in other words where it is, and what extent it has, hit the corona crisis. I am very aware that we should try to pick up on the fact that, to what extent does the supplementary insurance which lays down the conditions actually cover those people who have drawn it in good faith in the light of this very special situation? Because we're listening and it's not a consolidated report or number, but only such inquiries, I've personally been given that it hasn't been so covering. This may, of course, be an argument for some that it is not reasonable for there to be the same deductibility for the type of money-box membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135910	Sir. Karsten Hønge? No. Then there are no more questions for the Minister for Employment. We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529135926	Well, then, sir. Bent Bøgsted locked up when he's up there. Then he can't ask the rest of us questions. There may be pros and cons, but let's see. Thank you for that, President. One of the greatest advantages of our country and what makes us do so well is the Danish flexicurity model. Our companies can get rid of people and switch quickly to new times, and at the same time we have a daily allowance system that has broad support in the population and provides them with security for a difficult period. This is extremely important for our society and the opportunity to develop and develop the welfare state. It's a super, super important arrangement. Something that a lot of countries envy us. Fortunately, there is still a great deal of support for the benefit system. The figure is stable at three out of four in the labour market, which is a member of an unemployment fund. However, it must also be noted that private wage insurance has increased quite a lot in recent years. It is not necessarily a problem as long as it does not mean that people leave the community through the termination of their membership of an unemployment fund. However, this may mean that people are beginning to think that the benefit system is less attractive and this can cause problems in the long term. This means that we always have to safeguard our daily allowances and make sure that they remain strong and that people do not opt them out. Social democracy has been very, very focused on this for many years. I remember as far back as 2010, when we Social Democrats stood in this Chamber fighting with beaks and claws against it when the bourgeois government deteriorated the benefit system. Therefore, the S-government also soon after a benefit commission set up precisely to create a better and safer benefit system. That is why it was also in 2015, when I was sitting there, a demand on our part in the negotiations on the daily allowance system to add 300 million. kr. extra. That is why the government has also abolished the residence requirement, which of course other parties on the red side also wanted, so that fewer people will withdraw from the a-boxes. We are voting against this proposal, although we have fought hard to protect the daily allowance system at all times. This is because we have other very important priorities ahead of us. First, as the Minister also told us a great deal about, the corona crisis has meant a great deal to all Danes and therefore also a great deal to those of us who sit here and to the Social Democrats. It has been important for us to ensure that as few people as possible are infected and that as few companies as possible close down and thus secure as many jobs as we can so that people do not lose their jobs. At the same time, we have also safeguarded the benefit recipients by introducing a break in the daily allowance consumption. All this has cost a great deal of money, but I think we all agree in here that it has been both important and necessary. In addition to this, we also have other major priorities that are extremely important to us. As many of us know, we have a huge amount of work ahead of us in relation to green investment. And then we owe it to those people who have worked their whole lives and secured us all a good society and a good welfare, the opportunity for a dignified old age. That is why our top priority is still to ensure a dignified withdrawal. We keep an eye on the level of coverage as we believe it is important to safeguard our benefit system. I would not rule out the possibility that we could look at it at a later stage, as the Minister also said. So with these words, we will always safeguard the daily allowance. We always have. But we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140309	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140311	This is not a very surprising point of view, but I still wonder a little bit about the fact that it is not just a question of keeping the coverage of the daily allowance as it is today, but also a question of actively ensuring that it is further reduced in the coming period. And that's the factor that makes there a little more time pressure so you can't just say: we can look at that sometime. In the meantime, therefore, further deterioration is continuing and I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur explain why it is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140345	I have been standing here on the platform saying that I believe that the fact that many choose private pay insurance is also because they think it is becoming more attractive, and I also said that we should keep an eye on that. But I think Mrs Jette Gottlieb also heard me say that there are some priorities that we think should be done first. Of course we should handle the corona crisis, that goes without saying. But we also have to deal with the previous withdrawal, and we also have to deal with the issue of the green. That's why it's a little different for us than for the Enhedslisten. We give priority to us not just using loose. We have to give priority to this. It is not the same as saying that we are not interested in the benefits • everything I just read out before, that is, the history • because I think it is well known that the Social Democratic Party is doing so. However, we have to give priority, which is why I also had to tell you about the priorities we have. But that is not the same as saying that we will not protect it, because we will certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140435	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140449	Thank you. We have had this debate before various variations in the wording of this motion for a resolution. And in the end it is the same, and I might as well say that the conclusion is that the Left cannot support this resolution, just as we have not supported the previous resolutions from the Enhedslisten. Basically, we do not share Enhedslisten's very great concern for the benefit system. In Denmark we have an attractive and a secure and flexible benefit system, a system in which we have in recent years planned the uneven surface of, and where a large, broad majority here in the Danish Parliament has supported the changes we have made. Among other things, it has. This means that fewer people are now losing their entitlement to unemployment benefit. That is very good, even during the period we are now entering, but it has also meant that the benefit system has become more flexible than it has been in the past. Then it is quite fundamental for the Left that it should be worthwhile to work, and that is one of the cornerstones that we are at least safeguarding. But we have a good and secure benefit system, and it is worth gold; we are happy to do so, and we are happy to support it. So we would also like to urge the government to call for negotiations on how and how we can get Denmark going again. What the unemployed need most right now is jobs, that is, job growth. So there is such a need for initiatives to get job growth back on track. We have already proposed that we should bring forward the tax cuts that we have adopted also with the support of the Social Democratic Party and we have proposed a halving of VAT. This can help boost job growth. And we would also like to discuss, including with the government, how we can ensure that if you are available, you can also get started with a relevant training offer. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140723	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Sir. Bent Bøgsted? Bent Bøgsted I thought there were short remarks). No, there were no brief remarks. So, it's Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529140747	It's something else entirely. Thank you for that, President. I was just reading the motion for a resolution in my own mind, and I understood the President to say that there was a brief comment to Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, but there wasn't. But then we'll take this now. There has been quite a stir around this with how much the cover contribution should be, and we also know that there is a great desire from the trade union movement to have a look at whether the cover contribution is in the right place. We have also announced earlier in the Danish People's Party that we are, of course, also ready to look at how and how it should be, and I think it would be appropriate to have a discussion in the Danish Parliament about what the cover contribution really looks like. Now I was able to understand from the Minister for Employment that the Minister was ready to speak in the conciliation circle about the state of the daily allowance. I was also able to understand from the Minister that the Minister was looking at this with regard to whether you are in an insurance fund or not in an insurance fund, and whether you could get something so that people could get cover even if they had not just been a member for a year or what it should be like. I also think it might be sensible enough to look at how and how everything now works and get it through. In the Danish People's Party we are therefore prepared to see that it makes sense to look at it, but now the motion for a resolution calls for a debate on the cover contribution. After all, the Minister has rejected this blankly, but perhaps we could see if we could have a discussion in the Folketing on how the cover contribution should be, and it might well be that it was a question that would then have to be raised about the cover contribution. We have been talking about this quite a few times in the spring, but now it has been quiet because of the corona crisis. So it might well be that it was perhaps this way that something could be loosened up to clarify where the different parties are in relation to everything. We are not opposed to that proposal, but we understand from the Minister that it is being rejected by the government because it says that negotiations are being called for I do not know whether the government will accept it if it is changed to hold discussions but I have a little doubt as to whether it changes anything in that direction. However, we in the Danish People's Party are at least ready to discuss how the coverage contribution system works today, because we can also see that some people are reasonably well covered by the amount today, while others are far from it. It's like it's not really following these wage increases in the labour market. As I said, we are ready to look into it, and then we will see if the government is ready to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141126	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141128	Well, I thank you very much for the guidance on how to change words and believe that it creates another reality. I would very much like to write the discussion instead, but I am sure that does not change anything about the Minister's view of what should happen. But if Mr. Bent Bøgsted understands that we are doing some kind of joint query debate or something else, we can only know that it will be in the next period. So there we can decide on it then. But I would like to thank you for that and ask whether there is also action to be taken on Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsteds, what should we say, support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141209	Well, I don't think it changes much about the government's attitude either, because you just change it into a discussion. I don't think that's gonna change anything about it. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we would also like to wait and see what we can find in the conciliation circle, because we have a conciliation circle on daily allowances, where we also have to look at this sort of thing. However, it might be good in the autumn to perhaps take a query debate on the daily allowance and the cover contribution, not the benefit system, but the cover contribution and see what it looks like at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141244	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141253	Thank you for the floor, President. The Flexicurity model is a pillar of Danish society, and it has served us well. We have a dynamic and inclusive labour market that many other countries envy. The Flexicurity model has ensured a high level of employment by ensuring workers' need for security while taking into account the needs of companies for adaptability. The model cannot be taken for granted and it can be undermined if, for example, the level of compensation is too low for groups with high employment so that they can no longer see the scam of joining an unemployment fund. It will knock the bottom out of the unemployment benefit system's economy, and the Radical Left is certainly not interested in that. The balance sheet has not been tipped at this time. The A-banks are experiencing a growth in membership in these years. This also applies to the A-banks which draw groups with low unemployment and high wages, i.e. those who are relatively least in need of unemployment insurance. Nevertheless, it may be good to act in time to ensure the future of our flexicurity model, which is why the Radical Left believes that we should pay attention to the level of compensation, as it means a great deal to the safety of workers. However, in order to ensure the future of the flexicurity model, it is important to look wider than at the daily allowance rate and the level of compensation. We have seen an increase in private unemployment insurance. It is not in itself a problem, but one could imagine that the attractive feature of private unemployment insurance could be to avoid some of the activation offers and demands that many unemployed people face in the employment system. Too many people do not find that the employment effort they meet with in the job centres helps them in working too many, rather it becomes an experience of running 100-metre races in process requirements. There is therefore an important task in securing an employment effort which is seen as valuable to both the unemployed and businesses. If the reduction in the level of compensation leads to lower access to the cashiers, the consequence may be a more rigid labour market, where workers will also very much begin to compensate in their employment agreements so that they are harder to lay off, and in this way it could be imagined that it will end up as in the southern European labour markets where it is difficult to hire and fire people. So the Radical Left supports the fact that, within a relatively short period of time, we are embarking on discussions on the level of compensation, but not right now, as the economy has been affected in the first place by the corona crisis, and there is also the massive green conversion that needs to be invested in, among other things. so that the many who have lost their jobs can get back to work. In these words, we support the content, but not at this stage, and we will therefore not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141610	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141612	After all, the proposal was put forward 4-5 months ago, because it was tabled in January, and at that time we were told that the Radicals would support the proposal. So I am interested to know whether it is the situation of the Corona crisis that has changed the position of the Radicals on the proposal in the meantime. Is it because there have been many more unemployed, or is it another problem when support for the proposal itself is no longer active? I am grateful for the support for the content of the proposal, but I also liked to know where the changes have taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141650	As I hope the questioner can also sense the speech, we share that concern, but it is also the case that the balance has not yet been tipped off. This is in line with the economic priorities that lie ahead of us, among other things. in relation to the Corona crisis, but then also the massive green conversion that we are going to get going, brings us to the conclusion that it is not now time for negotiations to start, and that is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141730	We thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529141738	Unemployment currently knows only one way, and that is up. On the other hand, the daily allowance also knows only one way, and it is down. It actually goes the way the chickens scrape, namely back. The cold of insecurity and uncertainty seeps into thousands of ordinary workers' homes. We need the opposite development, with lower unemployment and higher unemployment benefits, and for us to invest massively in initial and continuing training. The government should take the lead in a recovery plan for security, unemployment benefit and education. Those who have the least should notice that there has been a new government, isn't there, Social Democrats? It must surely have consequences for the citizens of the elections to have a political wedgie that they can taste for many years to come. Developments must be reversed, because in 2025 the daily allowance will be 44 per cent. of the average wage, where in 1980 they covered 63 per cent. At the same time, the period of benefit has been shortened, profits have been made more difficult and the tax value of the deduction has been reduced. Right now, a corona supplement of 25% is needed. of the cash benefits per year; that we extend the benefit period so that the clock is stopped for the rest of the year; that the clock is put in place for the recipients of cash benefits affected by the 225-hour rule; that we suspend the fine on a caring day every quarter; and that we open a window into the cashiers so that people can join and receive daily allowances if they otherwise meet the conditions for membership, including a quota for at least one year, and such a free lease period could appropriately apply for one month. These are just temporary solutions in the acute crisis we are facing, and they cannot be left alone at all. When the coverage rate is low, many will ask themselves: Why buy bad insurance? At some point, people choose to withdraw the cashiers, and this will cause dramatic shocks on the whole labour market, of which we are, moreover, proud, for good reason. If there is not a fair exchange ratio between the quota and the degree of insurance, then it is not worth being a member. That is why there will be more opportunities for personal wage insurance, but we must not outsource or privatise security. Private, private, private! the right-wing shouts all the time, and Ase, who is a business and an a-box, responds to the cry by offering insurance to the best-off. Time and again Ase is the gathering place for the egoists, for their insurance is targeted at the 250,000 people with the best wages and the most secure working life. Ase's insurance, which does not require membership of an a-box, is torpedoes against our common a-box ship, where the elite are now trying to save themselves away in private lifeboats. But we need to think beyond our own nose tip and not just use the personal wallet as a compass, and then it is even in a situation where Ase's private elite believes they can use the tax credit so that they can get a helping hand from the taxpayers. Some trade unions also offer wage insurance, but there are supplements to the cashier. I also find it worrying that trade unions feel obliged to offer such buy-in arrangements, but I recognise the need. We have a crucial choice: should we strengthen one of the pillars of the labour market, namely a secure benefit system, will we continue to pick stones after stones out of the foundation? I fully share the concern expressed by the Economic Council that reducing unemployment benefits threatens our successful labour market model. Better conditions for the unemployed are the necessary rescue plan here and now, but there is also a need for a plan to provide in the longer term robust cash and cash benefits, and to survive we need to invest in adult, continuing training, both for the unemployed and for the employees of companies. Denmark must move on quickly and wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142239	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I understand that Mrs Jette Gottlieb will split her speaking time and use some of it now as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and later conclude the debate as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142256	I have just asked for a brief speech in the debate. It is about reminding us of what the wording of the proposal is about. It is about talking, discussing, negotiating how to ensure that our unemployment benefit system remains a rock in our Nordic labour market model. The reason I stress this is for the rest of the debate. Because it is of no use that we lose ourselves in all sorts of different solutions. The reason we are asking for this debate is because we see that there is a strategic problem and that is urgent at the moment because we are undermining our daily allowance as the important, important part of our labour market model. That is all I wanted to stress before I wait for the other items and then go up to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142352	The next feature is coming. It's sir. Naser Khader, rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142358	The Enhedslisten proposes that the government be required to call for negotiations in this Assembly to stop the erosion of the value of the daily allowance. Basically, it is my conviction and that of the Conservative People's Party that working in Denmark should be attractive. Work is the best social policy. Of course, if you involuntarily lose your job, you must be able to afford to support yourself and your children, and that is what is beautiful about the Danish model. Of course, there should be no doubt about that. But it is also possible to do so with the daily allowances that we have today. Let's just keep that in mind. We are in the middle of a time when we are so small opening up Denmark again. We need to get the economy going. By increasing the daily allowance rate, we take a step in the opposite direction. I think that would be a shame. I have read out that FH has been out suggesting that the maximum daily allowance rate be increased to 25,000 DKK. during the corona crisis. If you chose to do so, it would mean that there would be 230,000 full-time workers who would earn less, and it cannot be right that it should be more attractive to be on passive support than to be in active employment. In fact, I do not think this is right for the 230,000 people who stand up and go to work every day to support themselves and their families. For me, it is much more important to talk about how we can ensure that working is still attractive rather than not. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142554	Thank you. I'll be brief. New citizens cannot support the resolution as it stands. I simply do not think it is realistic that we will be able to convene negotiations in this parliamentary year. But we can easily look at the benefit system and see if we could make some changes. I do not know whether we will agree on those changes, but we would like to have a debate and a discussion on it. We do not think it is realistic that we can achieve it within this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142623	The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. We do not want there to be more unemployed in Denmark and, as we have heard the Minister of Employment state, it is also the government's starting point that if you raise the level of compensation for unemployment benefits in Denmark, we will get more people who join the unemployment line to go on unemployment benefits simply because the incentive to work, as the Minister of Employment said, is not enough. I mean, people are not actively looking for a job that they can get because the benefits are so attractive to get. I know that Enhedslisten does not care that it may be too attractive to go on unemployment benefits. I actually think Enhedslisten has as an ideal that we should all go home and look after our kitchen garden instead of going to work and that it is a beautiful society that does this. We think it's a bad society. We welcome the fact that people support themselves, and that is why we do not want to vote in favour of proposals that lead to unemployed people going around idle at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142722	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529142738	It is only to say, as an introduction, that the Enhedslisten is in favour of our unemployment benefit system, which is based on the fact that you can obtain a certain level of dependency when you are unemployed, and we think this is an important way of formulating that there is a safety net in our Danish model. Otherwise, I would say that it has been a long time since we tabled the proposal, and we are well aware that there has been time pressure as a result of the situation we have been in. We put forward the proposal in January, and the reason why we put it forward was the long-term erosion of the coverage of unemployment benefits and thus the basic erosion of a fundamental element of the Nordic labour market model that has taken place. The Nordic model has three legs. If you continue to cut one leg, the load will fall. Today, the benefit covers only about half the wage of an average employee. And it is planned that the fallout should continue, and that is why we had a kissjaw getting started negotiating what is going to happen. The average coverage in 2023 will be around 45%, or if we think in net assessment, it is 48%. Yeah, that's not a high number. When an employee in the Danish labour market can easily be fired, there must also be an economic safety net. The safety net in the form of daily allowances is a collective insurance system, one must be aware of. However, the safety net has become more and more hollow over time because the daily allowance covers a smaller and smaller part of the wage, while at the same time the benefit period has halved, the recovery period has doubled and the cash or insurance premium, if you like, has increased considerably. This is why the trade union movement has repeatedly pressed for an improvement in the daily allowances for employees. It has been dramatically updated here in the Corona crisis, where 115,000 new unemployed people are registered and perhaps just as many are joining in the coming months. The trade union movement has demanded a corona allowance, so that the daily allowance is up to 25,000 DKK, while there will be the possibility of immediate registration and a special benefit solution for those who have too low a salary or too few hours to be covered. This is an excellent starting point, and in the Enhedslisten we do not understand at all that the government has not called for negotiations on that proposal long ago. For the truth is that we have spent a hundred billion dollars on wage compensation for companies, while a flat penny has not yet been spent on those who have actually become unemployed. It is clear that the packages that have been adopted and that have cost a great deal of money have ensured that fewer people have become unemployed, but it does not last forever, and we surely also agree that it should not. If the parties of the Folketing and the government want to ensure that employees get out of the crisis in their own right, they must also reach out to those who are now very hard hit by the corona crisis, namely the unemployed or as 3F today it is said: In addition to Arne's turn, it is now also Bjarne's turn. And Bjarne is the one who's been fired waiting for the cash benefits to be paid. Do you honestly believe that an ordinary employee family, where both adults have lost their jobs, can manage half the money when rent, food and children are paid for? And it is now time for the families to sell the house before the safety net breaks completely. It's due diligence for a responsible government. Our proposal is simply about calling a talk about it so that the parties of the Folketing can try out the will for solutions for the unemployed. It can certainly not be so difficult to support unless it has been decided in advance that the unemployed are not worth more and that employees should fear unemployment in general even more than in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529143136	Thank you. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200529143158	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 June 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
