ParlaMint-DK_20200227100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and because of the many presentations I must not read out the titles: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 126 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 127 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Susanne Zimmer (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to stop the expansion of incineration capacity) and motion for a resolution No. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on strengthened action against the destruction and other disposal of returned and surplus goods). Susanne Zimmer (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of dietary advice on vegetarian and vegan food for children). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the labelling and registration of cats). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the phasing out of the production of cage eggs) and motion for a resolution No. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution authorizing municipalities to refuse, on the basis of an overall assessment, applications for the extension of livestock production). Nas Khade (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on securing and doubling prison sentences for the sale of drugs to children and young people). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the permanent storage of fingerprints in the fingerprint register) and motion for a resolution No. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sharpening of prison sentences). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on clarification of the responsibilities of social media in removing illegal content). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of freedom of expression by repealing Article 266 (b) of the Criminal Code) and motion for a resolution No. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the repeal of the Ministerial Regulation of the Public Service Act). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on clear municipal authority to reserve parking spaces for electric and electric car parts). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a game advertising board) and motion for a resolution No. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the mapping of anti-Semitism in Denmark - including its scope and origin). Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. Β 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of outpatient treatment for the victims of violence), motion for a resolution No. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the maintenance of Life Without Vold as Denmark's knowledge and advice centre in the field of violence after 2020) and motion for a resolution No. B 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to be treated by perpetrators of violence). Ulla Tørnæs (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 51 (Will the Minister state what the Government will do to meet the obligations of the 2013 Su-colon on the fixed ceiling on expenditure for migrant workers?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100128	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100148	Troels Lund Poulsen (V) has applied for leave from 10 March 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100215	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Anders G. Christensen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 10 March 2020 on the occasion of Troels Lund Poulsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100236	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 110 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100305	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 58 of Jep Bruus (S), Mads Birded (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 67 (S, V, KF and LA), against 43 (DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 58 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 57 by Peder Hvelplund (EL), Nils Sjøberg (RV) and Mr Sikandar Siddique (ALT), draft resolution No. V 59 by Mr Halime Oguz (SF) and motion for a resolution No. V 60 by Marie Krarup (DF) and Pernille Vermund (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100414	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100431	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 60 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 49 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100459	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100515	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF, NB and LA), against 94 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100541	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We are taking a break so that those who do not want to be here at first reading can get out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100829	I understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen would like the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100854	Thank you. We tabled this motion for a resolution some time ago, and it has happened that the government has, in the meantime, played out some views on wanting to take the initiative on a series of measures against gambling, including this element on which we are tabling a resolution. That is why it was our intention to withdraw the motion for a resolution. This has not happened for some reason, either by mistake with us or in the administration of the Danish Parliament; it must wait for further clarification. But at least we withdraw the motion for a resolution and there is no need to waste the parliamentary time with it when something that contains this element comes from the government anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227100939	In the light of this, I should like to know whether anyone else wishes to speak. There isn't. Nor does it appear to be, and that is the end of the matter. This is a rather unusual situation, which is why we cannot expect those who should be here for the next item on the agenda, which is a statement on EU cooperation, to be present in the Chamber because of the way things are dealt with. That is why I shall postpone the sitting by 15 minutes so that we can be notified to the Minister and the rapporteurs so that they can be put in place. The meeting will be postponed for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227102507	We'll resume the meeting. The debate is open, and that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227102535	I think I'm going to start a little overarching with regard to this discussion we're going to have now. We see these debates as an opportunity to have a wide-ranging discussion on Europe and to address some of the themes that may tend to disappear in a busy day-to-day life. That is why we have also been looking forward to today's debate, because we believe that this is an important opportunity for us here in the Folketing to lift our heads from the case-handling process and to have a more forward-looking debate on where Europe stands today and where we want Europe to be in the future. For the Social Democratic Party, European cooperation is an important and crucial cooperation. We wholeheartedly support this. Most people in this House may agree that European cooperation is in an exciting but challenging time. It is clear from the statement that in EU cooperation with the rest of the world, but also internally, we are in the midst of many difficult negotiations and many important political choices need to be made. It is not clear in advance what the European Union will look like in the future, but it is up to us, together with our neighbours, to shape it in the political direction that we believe is best for Europe, for the European Community and for something that is unique. It's something no one else can do. It is therefore also very sad that by 2020 we will lose a country that has been an important part of the European Community, namely Britain. This means that a new chapter is starting in the brexit story, because we are facing negotiations on the future relationship. It must be achieved in a very short time and it will be a difficult course of negotiations, but we must do everything we can to find a good agreement that safeguards our close relationship with Britain. There has been a lot of writing and talking about what is the cause of brexit. The overall answer to that question I will leave to some others to make themselves wise. But we must also learn from brexit, and it must then be that we must remember to listen. We must listen to the people of Europe, take them seriously, because, after all, that is what EU cooperation is all about, and what EU cooperation should develop into and build on. It's about the Europeans. For the Social Democrats, the main task of EU cooperation is to solve the problems that Europeans face and are in the middle of. That is why we are in a common Union, in other words in order to solve the tasks that we are doing better and more effectively and in a more sustainable way. If we stand together, it's better than stand separately. However, we do not take EU cooperation or brexit seriously, for that matter, by assuming that the EU-critical European is the victim of a poorly communicated EU policy. That's not good enough. EU cooperation will not be any better for our people if we talk nicer about it; instead, we must use our efforts to improve the common policy. That is why the Social Democrats have also made it clear that we want an EU budget that benefits Europeans. It is not a question of being for or against the European Union, but a question of what Europe we want. We do not share the analysis that the forces of EU cooperation are growing in proportion to the amount of billions redistributed from our national welfare, on the contrary. We believe that there is room for a healthy scepticism about the use of the EU budget. We will be a smaller EU country and, of course, it must be possible to keep the budget at a lower level. Should the administrative costs be so high? Not if you ask us. Is there really a need to hire more people in Brussels to carry out tasks that the Member States could just as well solve themselves? We are fighting for a budget that stays at a level of expenditure corresponding to 1%. We believe that the budget demonstrates to Europeans that the European Community can address urgent challenges with climate and migration, not by putting its hands further into the pockets of Europeans, but by prioritising the common difficult choices. One of the areas where Europe can deliver sustainable solutions is migration. This is one of Europe's absolutely greatest challenges, even though the EU's agencies have been reducing the pressure on Europe since 2015. We need to control the external borders and, as long as external borders are not controlled, we need to take care of internal borders. We cannot defend the fact that incredibly many people are losing their lives trying to travel to Europe, because this is a very untenable situation for the people who are fleeing and for the many millions of Africans who, because of their domestic situation, are potentially heading towards Europe in the long run. That is why it is a crucial task for EU cooperation to try to establish a new and fairer asylum system. We openly acknowledge that this is not an easy task, but it does not make it less important. Another important task for Social Democracy is not easy, but important, and that is the green transition. We need a Europe that sets the direction and moves forward on the green agenda, and that is why we are also fighting for at least 25%. of the future EU budget must go for climate-related purposes. The time is ripe for the European Union no longer to be defined as a coal union, but for us to create a climate union together, and just when it comes to climate, Denmark has a special obligation to be the most impatient country in Europe that pushes the most and which takes the lead. I'm glad to see the government has taken on that task. It is good that the new Commission has presented a green pact for Europe, which suggests that the green transition is a cross-cutting priority in EU cooperation and proposes a target for a climate-neutral EU by 2050. We support this and we will continue to push forward with increased ambitions in the climate area in Europe. I would also like to mention the internal market. For many, many years, the European Union has been helping to secure an effective internal market where we can trade with each other and which has been crucial to creating employment and prosperity around Europe. However, we must not underestimate the fact that many Europeans cannot see or feel the benefits of the internal market and we must ensure that the internal market continues to contribute to our common welfare. We did not create an internal market to allow multinational companies to earn billions in Denmark and Europe without contributing to the common fund and the community where they serve their purposes. That is why it remains a priority for social democracy to put an end to tax speculation and money laundering, just as we want to stop the development in which European countries are undercutting each other on corporate tax. A Europe of free movement must be built on a labour market that benefits everyone in the labour market. In Europe, we must combine growth and prosperity with social progress. Freedom of movement must also be fair movement. The social dumping that we are seeing in our labour market today is not a price we are willing to pay for the free movement of labour. We will not accept a labour market that creates poverty. It is important that we really contain the imbalance between the fundamental principles of the internal market on the one hand and respect for workers' fundamental rights, solutions and working conditions on the other. But one size fits all-model as a European minimum wage is not the way forward. European solutions should not be introduced at the expense of well-functioning national systems. In Denmark, we have good experience of leaving wage formation to the social partners, and this must remain the case. I started by saying that Europe is in a challenging but also exciting place. Europe's role in the world is becoming increasingly important in a world that is becoming increasingly troubled and unpredictable, which is why it is also good that strengthening the role of the European Union in the world is a top priority for the new Commission. As far as we are concerned, Denmark must work for a Europe that maintains its core values and shows that the European road is the most sustainable road, even in the future. It also requires us to safeguard the broad support, fortunately in Denmark, for EU cooperation. We must dare to take the fight in Brussels, also in connection with the difficult things, and we must tell them as we see them, even if it sometimes poses challenges, because basically European cooperation is a political cooperation, and we must therefore use our political compass and dare to debate and discuss. We believe that this is the right cure for sound and strong European cooperation. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227103309	No one has asked for short remarks, which is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227103323	Thank you for the floor and also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the written statement that we have received. I have looked forward to being here today, both because I am always happy to talk about the European Union, but also because a great deal has happened in relation to the European Union issue recently. It has been some time since we last stood here and a lot has happened, both in the European Union, but indeed in the rest of the world, since we last stood in the Chamber and debated developments in EU cooperation. We have had a parliamentary election in Denmark. We have had an election to the European Parliament. We've had brexit. And then there is the whole global security situation, which has so much moved on. And if I am going to make a little criticism of the Foreign Minister's statement, I would say that it strikes me that the global security situation fills so little in the Foreign Minister's statement so that I will come back to that part later in my speech. Because I'd like to start somewhere else. And maybe it's a bit awkward, but I've been looking at the archives from the last statement debate. And this whole prophecy thing about the future, you gotta be careful. Storm P. is from Frederiksberg, and he said: It is difficult to predict the future in particular. And it has to be said that the then rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, not much luck either. For he foresaw, the last time we stood here, that EU-critical parties, not least his own party, the Danish People's Party, would have nothing less than an excellent election to the European Parliament. It is fair enough that you believe in your own project in politics, and it is also good to have confidence in yourself, but that is not what happened. It was actually quite the opposite. Firstly, we saw that the turnout in European elections has never been higher. In Denmark, turnouts rose from 56 per cent. in 2014 to 66 per cent. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European And if we look at the outcome, it was not exactly the EU-critical parties that had a good choice and ran with victory. The People's Movement against the European Union was completely out of the European Parliament and my own party, known as a pro-EU party, was given an excellent election. We quadrupled our mandates, so we went from one to four. Okay, if the truth is to come out, maybe we only went from two to four because sir. Jens Rohde, who sits down there and hopefully is ashamed, took his mandate with him to the Radical Left, so Mr. Morten Løkkegaard had to deal with a period almost alone. So we went from two to four. It's not quite bad either. So the voters are fully aware that our common global challenges require common solutions. Denmark cannot solve the climate crisis alone, no matter how few steaks we choose to eat and how little we choose to fly. The people also know that our economy and our prosperity are totally dependent on the internal market, and then they do not think that the situation in Britain is appealing in any way. Brexit has probably led people to reflect on how much we actually get out of EU cooperation; things that we may have taken a little for granted in the past have been the case for myself. And from that point of view, nothing is so bad that it is not good for anything, although I am of course incredibly sorry, not least on behalf of the young British, over brexit. The kids didn't want out of the community. By the way, neither would the Scots. Nor would the Northern Ireland. Now, then, the negotiations are waiting for the future relationship between the European Union and Great Britain, or rather, the negotiations are already in full swing, because we do not have much time to run. In one year, the transition period will be over and the British will be completely out. After all, it is important that in these negotiations Denmark is not naive. I can also recall that I have heard someone say that we should now secure the British as good an agreement as possible. The better the agreement was for the British, the better it would be for Denmark, because then we could at a later stage take the deal and then cross out all the places where it says UK and then write DK instead, and then we could copy the agreement. I don't think that many people subscribe to that attitude anymore. Another important point on the current negotiating agenda is the EU's multiannual budget, which we have chosen to shorten MFF for mysterious reasons. We have spent a great deal of time discussing this in the Committee on European Affairs, and we have also taken an extraordinary round here in the Parliamentary Assembly on this issue. We got off on the wrong foot, you might as well say, among other things. because of some calculation errors from the Ministry of Finance and some disagreements with regard to the mandate I shall not dwell on that anymore, but I would just like to emphasise that we are, of course, keeping a close eye on the government's management of the mandate within the framework we have agreed, so that the budget is kept at 1%. of bni. However, it is not only important how much money we spend; just as important is what we spend the money on, that is, that we have a so-called modern budget with much more emphasis on climate-related measures, research and management of the migration and refugee crisis and less emphasis on traditional areas: agricultural support and Structural Funds. As I began by saying, I think that the Minister may be slipping somewhat over the security issue in his statement. There is a reason for what I am now quoting from the in recent years, the European Union has significantly strengthened its focus on security and defence policy cooperation. In the European Union, there is also a goal to be more responsible for its own security. The reason is, of course, that our closest allies in NATO, the United States, are unfortunately moving away from binding international cooperation. We have a situation in which Russia shows its teeth and a situation in which China has ambitions to become a global superpower. And if we add to this a rather unstable North Africa and the Middle East, a massive population growth in southern Africa, which is pushing migrants, the flow of refugees, against Europe, yes, then I think everyone will realise that there is a need for the European Union to have a more independent voice. But since the Minister is not at all referring to the elephant in the room in the government statement, I think we should deal with it here. I, together with the Radical Left, have just had the Secretary of Defense in consultation for, among others. To learn more about what the government really thinks about the defence reserve. And let's just put it that way: we didn't get smarter. But at least the Minister could not deny that at some point we would have to abolish the defence reserve. It will certainly not be next month or next year, but we will have to start the debate now, because it will require a debate if we want to abolish a reservation. Unfortunately, we saw what happened with the legal reservation: we simply got off to work too late, but the consequences of the fact that we still have our legal reservation are becoming clearer day by day. If we look at the report made by DIIS on the consequences of the defence reserve, then we can see that there are already consequences for Denmark at this stage, and the consequences will only be reinforced in the future, as the other EU countries will work more closely and more closely together on that point. So I think we should take the debate. We can't just close our eyes and wait for it to be too late. And with these words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104116	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104118	Yes, I almost have to get that, because now I remember that when I wrote a chronicle in 2012 and spoke out loud for us to be part of a defence union in the European Union, I got such a nice tackle from behind at a national meeting. That was certainly not welcome. Now we hear that the Left has once again put on the EU socks, and Facebook has even seen how the President of the Left puts on the EU socks, and nothing is more to my liking, even though I am in another party today. I think it's nice that the Left is finally coming home after being lukewarm for a long time. But I also understand the government when it does not have such a desire to move into a referendum. Because the point is that every time a referendum is held on European cooperation, it is the government alone that has to pull the load. For those who are not in government, it's very funny if the Prime Minister can defeat this. So, if we are going to have this referendum that the Left is asking for, will the Left guarantee to go fully into that fight, regardless of who is in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104234	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104236	Now you have to be careful about setting out guarantees in Danish politics, but I can at least guarantee that I will do everything I can, and I cannot even imagine that the Left should not participate wholeheartedly in such a debate. But my message is also, as former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen has said, that history has shown us that if there is something we are not talking about, and we then suddenly issue a referendum on it, people are standing there saying: Well, what are we going to vote on, and why is that? And then we get to the back. We have to fertilize the ground. We need to have a longer period in which we can explain what the disadvantages are for Denmark, and then we must not exaggerate. For example, in the case of the vote on the reservation of the law, there were: posters where it said that if it were to be a no, it would almost overturn the borders with paedophiles the next day. It was a hysterical exaggeration that we normally leave up to the opponents to make. Well, we shouldn't fall into that. We should not paint the devil on the wall, but simply calmly explain that it is clearly not in Denmark's interest to have reservations, and that if we want to have a hundred percent influence, it requires one hundred percent participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104343	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104345	But it's very beautiful that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen now mentions the announcement during the legal reservation campaign. I remember one of the ads that came from the Left. It was with Inger Løjberg who said: would I say yes if the European Union were to have competence on asylum policy? See, in that message there is a backdrop: we want to sit at the table when it suits us and that we cannot really trust the decisions taken in the European Union. So perhaps we should start somewhere other than equal defence union and then start taking citizens seriously as Europeans. Actually, I'm still missing that indictment from the Left. When are we gonna get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104426	We'll get it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104427	Thank you. I think we're in full swing. We've searched ourselves, too. If you focus too much on the few areas where you are unhappy, then it cannot be surprising that a majority of voters say: Why should we actually be involved if you go and are so dissatisfied? If, for example, you're gonna have to... As far as the free movement of workers is concerned, only the challenges that exist and completely forget that this is a huge economic gain for Denmark with foreign labour are, of course, at the risk of getting a completely wrong statement of what we actually have out of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104513	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104516	Well, it's exciting to witness this maybe a break between the two Left parties. Well, that's quite right, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentions that we have seen some fluctuations in the curve from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's Left Party, in relation to setting fence posts for the EU and all sorts of other basic sympathetic things. Now we see a 12-star kit, and I don't know what, and you move in Mr. Jens Rohde's Left Party direction. Maybe it could just be exciting for people out there to know exactly what those plans are, sir. Jørgensen's Left Party is in favour of referendums. After all, you've got the euro reservation beaten, you've got the legal reservation beaten. So that's the defense reservation now? Is that what the plan is? When's it gonna be? I understand that this must be a long debate. That's always a good idea. But can we not go a little further on when the debate will begin?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104616	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104618	Well, because you've been beaten 10, 15, 20, 25 years ago, you shouldn't just lie down for fear of getting beat up again, 'cause that's when you were a pussy. I also assume that the Danish People's Party is running for the next election, even if you got beat up last time. You shouldn't just lie down like that, right? So we are happy to take the fight and we want all the reservations abolished, probably in the order of defence reserve, legal reservation and then euro reserve. On the other hand, we are not the kind of kamikaze pilots who throw us into a battle that we can see cannot be won. That is why it is so important to have the debate, so that the understanding of the population spreads, in relation to why we simply shoot ourselves in the foot by having these reservations. The other European countries just think we're a little weird. It is not for their sake that we should abolish them. It is for our own sake to influence the European decisions, which ultimately concern us, whether we are involved in making them or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104716	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104717	Could we not then agree on something, since it is now the intention to start the debate now? Because when you have also lost it, I know that the excuse will be that the Danes did not understand at all what it was about, i.e. understood that the debate was not good enough, enlightened enough, and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen had already mentioned this, that the campaign prior to the legal vote, even in his own ranks, had been too demagogic and so on. So if that's the plan, then I just think you should say it directly. And since the Left is, of course, the support party in EU policy to the government, I assume that we can get a clear message. Then we're gonna have that fight, and I'm gonna look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104753	Well, we are in full swing, and some of what we are up against is misinformation, most recently from the Secretary of Defense, that is, a defence minister who is out to say that if the defence reserve is abolished, then there will be a requirement for Denmark to provide soldiers for missions. That is simply untrue, it is not true. And if even the defence minister of the country does not know what the consequences are of abolishing the defence reserve, then it is uphill. That is why this debate is so important that we take it over and over again. And we just have to admit something, so how many people are sitting up in the press room? Not an eye. It is not these EU debates that are seriously clearing the front pages, and I think it is a great pity that we can only have the discussion when we have a referendum waiting right around the corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104834	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104836	Well, I'd like to defend the Secretary of Defense. That, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen quotes the Secretary of Defense as saying, she has not said (Jan E. Jørgensen Jo, she has). No, she said there would be political pressure (Jan E. Jørgensen No). Yes, she said that there will be political pressure, and that is something quite different. I would also like to draw your attention to Mr Seligman's point of view. Jan E. Jørgensen mentions the question of predictions and Mr. Jens Rohde is far too modest to mention for himself that Mr. Jens Rohde at that time, before leaving the Left at the relevant Left meeting, had as his main theme that what was discussed in the European Union was something quite different from what was discussed in the Left and that what was discussed in the European Union was a defence dimension. These were questions of defence cooperation. And it was completely rejected by the Left at the time... probably because you didn't want to go to the polls on that issue. But then we can't have Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen to now say that Mr. Jens Rohde was absolutely right that this was what was discussed down in the European Union, and perhaps even working for the Left to give Mr. Jens Rohde is an apology because it was so indiscreet with the campaign being waged against Mr. Jens Rohde?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104957	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227104959	I think the Enhedslisten should consider the duty of truth of ministers and how seriously they take it. It cannot be the case that if a minister brings an untruth that actually fits very well in your own hug, then it does not take it so much. It must be the case that either the ministers speak the truth or the ministers speak the truth. And they shall not speak untrue; they shall speak the truth. And the truth obligation also requires precision in one's statements. Now Mr. Søren Søndergaard was not present at the consultation where we talked to the Secretary of Defense about what she had said, and therefore I am impressed that Mr. Søren Søndergaard in this way can take the Minister in defense. For there it was reiterated that there would be a clear demand for Denmark to send soldiers to missions. Then it is true that the Minister invented a new concept, which she called a political demand and which would then be something other than a legal requirement. And that is, as I said in the consultation, nonsense and nonsense. Either there is a requirement or there is no requirement. You can't make demands if you don't have anything to do with it, if the requirement isn't met... then the words just don't make sense. President Yes, please! ) A requirement is mandatory and must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105111	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105112	I fully agree with the Minister for Defence that there will be a political demand for Denmark to provide forces for various military operations, if we are fully involved in defence cooperation. The minister was absolutely right. But I'm getting up just to give Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen the opportunity to answer another question about Mr. Jens Rohde. Well, we get a realization that Mr. Jens Rohde was absolutely right and that what was said by the Left in this regard was completely wrong? And could you consider giving Mr. Jens Rohde an apology in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105155	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105155-2	I'm gonna reread sir. Jens Rohde's chronicle. I'm sure it fills up more in mr. Jens Rohde's head than mine. So there is a difference between political pressure, political expectation, political desires and so demands. And I find it shameful that Enhedslisten takes it so lightly, just because something is said that fits into Enhedslisten's hug. It is sovereignly the Danish Parliament that decides whether Danish soldiers should be sent to war. It will be whether we abolish the defence reserve or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105228	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105229	Thank you. I wasn't there for the consultation, but I'm a friend of Mr. Knox's. Jan E. Jørgensen on Facebook, and I could see that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has put a cut on his own profile from the consultation. It is always the case that it can be cut together a little, as the Secretary of Defense said, so it looks a little different and so you are not put in the best light. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: what exactly is manipulation? It sounds like the minister is about to resign because she has lied to the Folketing. What exactly has the Secretary of Defense said that is not true?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105257	The Secretary of Defense has just said that there will be a demand for us to deploy soldiers for EU missions if we abolish the defence reserve. That is not correct. The Minister for Defence could quite easily have come out of it by apologizing for saying something that is wrong and could have said that there is no requirement. Of course, there will be a political expectation of this. I don't disagree with that either. It would be strange, then, to abolish the reservation of defence and never to take part in any mission. That would be weird. But the Secretary of Defense could not be so proud and stubborn that she would not admit that she had come to talk. Whether it was because she didn't know better or if it was a proclamation, I shouldn't be able to say. But it would have dressed the Secretary of Defense simply to lie down flat and admit that one had come to say something that was wrong, rather than paddle and keep messing around in that what she meant was that it was a political requirement and so on. - Sir, you can. Lars Aslan Rasmussen appropriately tell the Secretary of Defense the next time he meets her.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105353	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105355	Thank you for your recommendation. I just still don't understand what exactly is manipulation. It's not a question of whether it's a mistake. The rapporteur can tell us that a minister speaks untruely. I guess it's true that there can be a political battle. But where is it that the Minister has said that it is not a decision taken by the Danish Parliament, that is, the decision on whether or not we are going to send troops to one thing or another? That's what I don't understand. It is more the rapporteur who has to deny what the rapporteur thinks the Minister for Defence has said, namely that it is not the Folketing that is taking the decision in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105421	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105422	It's not that hard to understand. So, either there are some who can demand that we in here decide to send soldiers on a mission, or they cannot demand it. They can either demand it, or they can't demand it. And they can't demand the end. Then it's not anymore. It's not that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105443	Thank you. And then we say thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227105454	Thank you, President. You can almost be confused by following such a debate here. In other words, it is usually the case that Danish European politics is governed by the Left and the Social Democrats, who have the majority and largely agree on everything. But now you see the Left standing here and shoving a social-democratic minister over and above that in an area where they agree, namely that the defence reserve is a bad thing and that we just have to leave with 12 stars on the shoulders of the generals, etc. Then you will see the Enhedslisten come to the rescue of the Social Democratic EU-friendly defence minister with a message that she is not as bad as the Left pretends, after which the Left starts to embroider with the Radicals, who are after all the supporters of the Minister of Defence's government. Well, it's all a lot of chaos. I understand that only a few people have chosen to come to the gallery today, because that makes you completely confused. But perhaps that is the picture of what EU policy does to people, namely that when you go to Brussels, the concepts are completely confused. Then everything is turned upside down, and it's hard to find head and tail in anything. And that's how I felt about this statement... perhaps most of all because it looks like the statement we got last year and last year and the year before, etc., as if nothing really happened in the world. Business as usual, I would say with the permission of the President, everything goes on. Yes, yes, we have certainly lost the sixth largest economy on earth, which is now no longer a member of the club, namely Britain, which is the second most important military power in the world and so on. Yeah, that's too bad, but it's not something that disturbs the picture. The EU is good; the EU is the solution to all the problems in the world. And if this is not the case, we shall return immediately to the main phrase: the European Union is good; the European Union is the solution to all the problems in the world. Perhaps that is the very reason why the system of the European Union is not so good, that is, that there has simply been too much ideology; that it is so quick to believe that every time a problem arises, yes, you need more EU; that every time there are difficulties, whether with the economy or with the labour market or with the financial sector, or whatever it may be, no one is looking at whether it might be the European Union and the regulation that has been created today. No, then the automatic answer is that the solution should then come from Brussels, by giving Brussels more power. And that goes well beyond what we are also hearing from Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen and from Mr. Jens Rohde and from the government when you read this statement. And that is where the world's distance is, because it is, of course, a huge defeat to lose Britain as a member of the European Union. It is economic; it is prestigious; it is security policy and in all other areas. And that's why it's remarkable that this very thing plays such a small part in this government statement. The fact that Britain is leaving the European Union will change the whole way Europe works together, and it may not be the beginning of the end, but rather the beginning of the European Union that we have today. For the first time, the European Union will have real resistance in the sense that we will see a new strong international cooperation building on the basis of London, with a focus on trade and pragmatic non-ideological approaches to cooperation. And it will be faced with the strong, ideological French project originating from Brussels. And as the British will do well, and perhaps even in the long term, better than when they were members of the European Union, now that they are allowed to make their own free trade agreements and commitments with countries around the world that actually have growth and prosperity, yes, one could imagine that cooperation will gradually appear more attractive to a great many Europeans. I'd like to say to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that although the European Parliament elections did not go, as we in my party had necessarily dreamed, it is the case that there was progress for EU critical parties across the Member States. As I recall just now, if you count the EU-Sceptic bourgeois groups and the unregistered groups together in the 2014 elections, it was 175 Members, and after the parliamentary elections this year you were up to 192. So it is a matter of progress. I do not think that the citizens of the European continent are going around saying for themselves: if we could have more regulation transferred to Brussels, our daily lives would be better. If we could only have minimum wage matters transferred to Brussels, then industrial relations would be sorted out. If we could just get the European Union to guard our external borders better, then national border controls would no longer be needed. I do not think that there are many people who think this way outside very narrow circles, such as Brussels, the Radical Left and the Old Left. Therefore, it is remarkable that a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so little reflection on what brexit really means. For Brexit means that while the citizens of now 27 countries are still linked to an ideological project which is only moving towards an ever closer union, never give back powers, but only take away from the Member States, while at the same time it is increasingly difficult to deliver the promises that have then been used as an argument for taking powers, yes, there is now a new cooperation with a focus on Great Britain, which will be able to deliver growth that will deliver economic prosperity and cooperation, but not in the way we know it from Brussels, where everything is happening from top down, but where it actually comes from the Member States themselves. And lure me, if not people in a few years' time, both here in Denmark, in Austria, in the Netherlands, in Finland and further down the continent, who are basically tired of being carried around by people they have never voted for for many, because they have never been on elections in a free, democratic election... will sit and look more and more longingly at Britain and say: Perhaps that was the way we should go; cut the ties with the European Union that never rests in terms of eating into the sovereignty of our countries. Perhaps we should instead say 'no' to economic cooperation, we would like to, we do not want to, and that is why we are moving towards what the British can deliver. I think so. And regardless of whether you're supposed to be sir. Jens Rohde has the European Union in its heart, or, as I understand it, in Mr Rohde's mind. Jan E. Jørgensen, just wants it in the stomach, where it's about economy, turnover, money, etc.; regardless of where you have your feelings in relation to the project, I simply do not understand that you can have such a small reflection on this phenomenon, which is, of course, the biggest threat to the project. I love brexit. I welcome brexit. I think it is historic and politically grand that the British once again set out to free the continent of Europe. They've had a story to do with success. But if you love the European Union, whatever it is with French or German capitols, then I do not understand why you are not trying to understand what brexit is and what is necessary, given that brexit is a reality, in order to save the love project you have in Brussels. Because that's just one thing. It is precisely to give more power back to citizens in foreign policy, labour market policy, social policy, in all areas where there has not been a single EU enthusiastic politician, perhaps except for Mr. Jens Rohde, who has ever frankly told the citizens what they were getting if they voted in favour of the EU Treaties. Every time we have voted in Denmark, the EU parties have said: Narh, it is limited, how much power we hand over, and there is still no right of veto, and we have managed matters and so on. And now that you are in that situation, and then in a statement and a debate that we have today, you do not allow brexit to fill anything at all, it really underlines how strong the world is in EU cooperation. Perhaps that's why all these weird flaks that we see, where Enhedslisten is suddenly engaged with the EU-enthusiastic government, and then it's Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen etc. It is really only the European Union that can thus combine concepts. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110445	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110450	Thank you. There have been a number of referendums on Denmark's membership of the EU. There have been eight, and it has been yes five times, and then it has become no three times just to get it in place. And if we're going to look at the figures like that, they were in the 80-20 European Parliament elections in favour of the supporters' parties just to get it in place. So there is a fairly massive majority of the Danish population who, at least at this stage, believe that the European project, the European Union, is a good thing from such an overall point of view. That is why my question to the Danish People's Party is: Do you want me to understand that you actually love brexit on the part of the Danish People's Party to lead Denmark into what Britain has been led into? Do you want Denmark to leave the EU and follow in the footsteps of the British?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110550	Yeah, I love brexit because it's the brave decision of the British. Against the almost monotonous warning of the press, industry, the whole political climate, the British chose to take their fate into their own hands and make a courageous and visionary choice. I think it's gonna be a good and wise choice. That is why I think it is also a choice that many countries that I mentioned in my speech will feel inspired by. I do not think that we in the Danish Parliament or the Danish People's Party should decide whether Denmark should follow Britain. But I believe that the Danes should have the opportunity to make that decision, just as the British have been given the opportunity to do so. That is why I imagine that when the dust has settled, and we know in 11 months what agreement Boris Johnson has reached with Brussels, and when we know what free trade agreements have been concluded from London with India, South America, the United States and so on, so that we know the conditions for the new cooperation that will emerge from London, we should of course ask the Danes if we should not also be involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110656	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110659	A brave decision that reminds me of the TV series 'Yes, Minister', where every time the minister was doing something incredibly stupid, the official said to the minister: Very brave, minister, very brave, minister. But could we not just get answers to what the Danish People's Party would recommend voting in such a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110721	I can only confirm that I have no memory that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has ever made unwise decisions, that is, courageous in that sense. He has always been consistent with political correctness. So if that is what was implicit in the first assumption, I would like to confirm it. Then I would say that this is not something we have discussed in depth. But I do not think it will come as a great surprise that we will hardly be on the team that tips or works for Denmark to stay in the European Union. I think I can say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110749	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110752	With the rapporteur's permission, I would just like to mention a small text message correspondence we had about Oswald Spengler before. For Oswald Spengler, the old cultural historian and philosopher from Germany, was such a pessimist of culture. He was the one who wrote the book 'Untergang des Abendlandes', and there are many such strong conservative forces leaning on today. Oswald Spengler's philosophy was, of course, so contradictory to the British individual philosophy of competition. And now I know that sir... Morten Messerschmidt wrote to me: I am just one of Spengler's humble disciples. And yes, you can certainly hear it with the pessimism of culture, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt loves to excel in. However, I do not understand how one can then feel if one considers oneself to be a Conservative... love this British, liberalist, individual, competitive cultural view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110907	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227110909	What I wrote to mr. Jens Rohde, I was the humble disciple of cultural pessimism. Spengler's business I think is too broad for me to say yes to everything immediately. No, I think we should separate the liberal part from the British such a legal tradition or tradition of freedom, because I think that is two different things. So, for me, in 1215 the formation of the modern British state begins with Magna Carta, where everything that becomes the rule of law is founded. Well, then, sir. Jens Rohde is right in saying that in the post-war period it will become a very liberal market economy for various reasons, among others. Because Thatcher and Reagan become a strong partner to Communist Russia and develop a very individual-oriented liberalism. But it is not in this way British; it can be said that it is a modern British political development. But it is not something that goes like a cultural move through Britain's history.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111010	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111013	But I would understand, sir. Morten Messerschmidt's reply, if he declared himself a liberalist, and I have never heard Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says he is. There is something that puzzles me a little bit about that enthusiasm for Britain and that you then constantly lie down with them and almost put all your eggs in the basket with the British decision on what to do next. In addition to being a Liverpool fan, I find it undoubtedly difficult to see what exactly unites us with the British, for example. industrial relations. I cannot find anything at all about workers' rights, the Danish model, the way we have built up our society, which in any way escapes with what the British have done. So what on earth is Denmark's interest in linking itself to a free trade area with Great Britain, with the free movement of goods and services and capital, where we then weigh each other's accidents without being able to do anything about it politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111117	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111119	I'm sure that's due to Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde and the Radical Left are building their way of viewing the world on a very materialistic basis. So, you only look at the political outlines and, yes, the reality and there is Mr. Jens Rohde's right. We cultural pessimists may view things a little more spiritually. It can be said that there is great mentality between Britain and Denmark. There is also a great linguistic similarity, there are many historical common features. Britain went through a reformation in parallel with Denmark, but in a different direction on their terms etc., but there are many historical common features that I think make that when Danes and Britons are in the same room, whether it is a business room or in a pub, or what it is, you understand each other immediately. And you can do that precisely if you are a people with common cultural roots. Then you can have a political disagreement. Sir. Jens Rohde and I are also deeply politically divided, but when we sit over a glass of red wine or a beer, we are still both Danes away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111222	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111224	The EU discussion often gets very complicated, and it does, because there are a whole lot of foreign concepts, and it does, because it is a foreign system, and because it is enormously bureaucratic, so it is impossible to understand, and then it is because there are so many things that are so foreign to the Danish population. However, I also believe that one of the things that makes the EU discussion more difficult is that you really cannot sometimes say what is right and what is wrong, and I think, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt contributes to that when he does polemics out of the fact that I said that it was absolutely right what Jens Rohde said in connection with the Left Congress, where they had to elect candidates for the European elections, namely that what was discussed in the EU was defence policy, and therefore the Left had to deal with it. It's not a breakup with Jens Rohde. That is a statement of what the fact is. It is just the same when, in relation to the Minister for Defence, I say that she is absolutely right in saying that there will be political pressure on Denmark if we lift the Danish defence reserve. That is something I am completely opposed to. Then I am just trying to relate to the fact that, after all, there must be something on which we agree, namely the reality, and that is why I would just like to ask: Morten Messerschmidt does not agree with the two realities: that the issue of defence is a central issue in the European Union, contrary to what is often claimed in Denmark, and secondly, that if we give up the defence reserve, there will be enormous pressure on Denmark to participate in military operations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111408	Well, I would very much like to confess to that, sir. Søren Søndergaard. After all, we have been sitting together in the European Parliament and we have seen how the federal groups are pushing very hard for a genuine European army, and I also fully agree that you say yes to it and you give up the reservation, and there will of course be implicit indications that then you will end up. After all, it could be compared slightly with the euro, where a limited transfer of power was also taken from the outset, but once the matter was under way, yes, then treaties were quickly amended and, in some other way, very, very large federal steps were taken. Of course, the same thing will happen if you have a defence alliance, an EU army, which I really weep, partly for the same reasons as Mr. Søren Søndergaard, but of course we also emphasise this in my party more than the Enhedslisten because it will break it for us to see important and good alliance with the United States that we have through NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111511	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Then we have reached a bilateral agreement that Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party will now be given the floor as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111527	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde to trade places with me, 'cause I'm about to go to an important meeting. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the written statement on the development of EU cooperation that has been sent to us. As the report shows, the turnout in the EP elections increased for the first time, both nationally and in the EU. This is important because it is a clear signal that voters know that we have to solve the climate challenges, that we have to do it together and in a binding community. The fight against climate change is best taken through a strong European Union. This is the lesson of the EP elections. The parties in favour of climate change and a strong European Union had good choices. But good choices are not enough. As can be seen from the statement which has been sent to the Folketing, there are a large number of important matters that we need to resolve. Let me grab some of them. Climate: The newly elected President of the Commission has made the green agenda an absolute top priority with the presentation of a European Green Pact, a biodiversity strategy and a strategy to stop, among other things. Deforestation. Next week, the Commission is expected to present a proposal for a European Climate Law to set the objective of a climate-neutral EU. These are good initiatives, but in the SF we are concerned about whether they are ambitious enough. Setting climate targets, which are 30 years in the future, is not ambitious enough. That is why we must also have the long light and ensure a strong 2030 target at European level, just as we do in Denmark. The transition to a green society is not free, and some areas of the EU will see a major change in the way energy is produced. It is therefore also positive that the Commission has put forward a proposal for a fund to help areas where green conversion costs jobs. Then there is the rule of law: the EU must be a club of constitutional states that effectively upholds fundamental rights, a free press and independent courts. Unfortunately, we are seeing at the moment that several countries have problems meeting basic standards, and that is not going to happen at all. The so-called Article 7 procedure has proved to be without real strength in relation to the spread of the obvious problems of fundamental constitutional principles that we see in several Member States. Fortunately, in the future, a link has been established between access to the EU's cash register and the ability to comply with the rule of law. We look forward to that and we want the government to fight hard to get that mechanism in place. An important issue that is conspicuous by its absence in the statement that has been sent over is the fight for more openness in the EU institutions. The government should throw itself into this matter with all its strength. The closure of the Council is a huge problem and really represents the democratic deficit that the European Union is often accused of. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111835	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227111839	Thank you. I am incredibly in agreement with the latter. But I have a question, because this debate is now about EU cooperation and the development of it, and it is also about how we deal with EU cooperation. And I must admit that there have been a number of examples of this lately, where I find it very difficult to understand who is drawing the SF's position on the European Union. Is this the policy pursued in the Danish Parliament, or is it the policy pursued in the European Parliament? In other words, we have just had a very specific case in which we dealt with a mandate on agricultural aid and climate and, in general, the general budget for the next seven years in the European Union, and where the Alternative and Enhedslisten voted against, because there was simply no guarantee that it would become anything. The SF voted in favour, but then the SF representatives in the European Parliament went ahead and said that it should be at least 50% to go to climate action, but it was not raised at all in the discussion. The second example I want to give, because now trade policy is also part of this discussion, is about how we deal with trade agreements, where the SF's representation in the European Parliament has voted in favour of the trade agreement with Vietnam. No, only one of the two members of the SF's group in the European Parliament has voted in favour of it, where we think there are a lot of bad things. And that's why I need clarification. Who is it that draws the SF's line on the EU issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112014	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I understand that this creates a confusion. I just want to say that in the SF we are in favour of a restrictive line. Yes, it is true that our Members of the European Parliament would like to see a larger budget, but for us it is also important to look first and foremost at the policy being pursued, the substance of the policy being pursued. So SF's line is a restrictive line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112053	Yes, that then does not clarify the whole question of how much should go to the climate component. SF helped to give a mandate to the government, which did not make any demands on the climate section, where SF in the European Parliament says at least 50%, and that makes it a little strange for at least Enhedslisten • I think the alternative feels the same way to discuss it. What, then, are we really dealing with? The second question is about Vietnam, which reflects a broader approach to trade agreements, which in my opinion again contains a lot of bad things: is the SF for or against the trade agreement with Vietnam? In other words, one Member voted in favour, the other Member voted against it. It may happen that you vote incorrectly in the European Parliament, I know that because you vote so many times per person. I think it would be a good idea if we were to have a debate on this subject in the next few days. So what is SF's position? Or will the SF work to ensure that we may be able to clarify more clearly in the future what is SF's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112211	If I have understood the first question correctly, then the questioner is somewhat incomprehensible about how and how we deal with the whole climate. There should be no doubt that the SF would like the climate component to be prioritised and that the budget will reach 30%. to the climate component. With regard to the trade agreement with Vietnam, I would like to assure the questioner that there will be clarity on the issue. Because, of course, it is true that there has to be clarity about it, and I expect that clarity too, because I am not quite sure what it is like either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112302	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112305	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I have the same question, particularly about the multiannual budget, because we see a clear voice in the Green Group in the European Parliament and a slightly unclear voice here in Denmark. You can go down in detail and say that you stand and say 30 per cent, but you have actually voted for a minimum of just 25 per cent. So it's actually on a slightly more basic level. In other words, you sit in one of the groups that works the most for progressive, strong, strengthened cooperation in the European Parliament and at home, I often think that you lie with the government, which has a lot of EU skepticism. The rapporteur himself says that we should have this very small budget, which speaks directly against the discourse that exists in the European Parliament. So where does SF really feel most at home here? Is it in this very restrictive approach that we have to deal with the size of the budget, or is it in the European agenda that we have to create a modern budget that responds to the challenges we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112415	In fact, I think I will repeat my answer, which reads: for us, the most important thing is to influence the policy being pursued. So by making ultimate demands and standing on the sidelines, we're not getting anything straightened out. It is clear in the paper that it is at least 25%. the budget, which must be green. We are happy to work on and would like to see more, but at least that is a minimum. For SF, it is crucial what policies are being implemented. And these are the points I have listed in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112509	I am sorry if the rapporteur is uncomfortable with this, but when we are discussing a budget and we can see what it is that you think is most important and what it is that you do not think is most important, that is what I am really asking about. I am also asking far more in principle, so the rapporteur does not need to get petty and point to the paper, because I am asking in principle because I find it hard to understand. One cannot both be completely square about a size of the budget and at the same time have a debate about how we are developing it here. You have to choose your debates. I can understand a pragmatism. Then you can say: that is what we choose; we choose to be pragmatic, because then we can get through a little. But I am actually more curious about the vision of Europe: where are we going?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112559	I'm not mad if it's been your opinion at all. I understand you're asking that question. For the SF, it is important that we have strong cooperation in the European Union. There should be no doubt about that. But we would also really like to be involved when things happen so that we can draw the government in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112629	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112633	Of course, we should not ask questions of support or anything like that, but I would like to come to the aid of the SF rapporteur here. For the truth is that in the first negotiation paper that came from the government, and which is not the radical Left's favourite dish, we think it is too dogmatic in relation to the budget, but one chooses to go into a process with the government. And that is why the government has not, and I hope the Minister will confirm this afterwards, just a free pass on whether the research is suddenly cut sharply or cut on the ambitions of the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112728	But was that a question? I guess that was just a statement and I just wanted to say thank you for the support. Yes, it was a helping hand, and hopefully we will have an answer from the Minister later). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112741	I would say that these two rapporteurs have now received more than two brief comments by taking them themselves. And that is not according to the Rules of Procedure, just for another time. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur from the SF, so thank you very much. And the next on the rapporteur's list is Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227112809	It is, after all, just before I had to give up my speaking time, since the statement here has been almost more about me than it has been about the statement. And I would also like to thank you for your help, sir. Søren Søndergaard; however, I strongly refuse to be modest, but I have never been accused of this! But please don't do this. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who unfortunately just had to go to a consultation. It is always a pity if he is going to go when we are going to debate the European Union, since he is the radical Left's best enemy in these issues. • said that when we do not understand his approach to, we should say the British view of culture, then it is because we have a materialistic view of culture in the Radical Left. No, it is precisely the opposite that is the case. Because when we want there to be a stronger political union and not just such a business-like way of doing things in European cooperation, it is because we have built a well-functioning internal market in many ways, but which also presents us with challenges, all the time when we have the free movement of goods and services, people and capital, we get a lot of good out of it. But I also think it is increasingly clear to most people that we also inherit each other's accidents. And what political cooperation in the European Union has to do is to provide the political responses to the challenges that free movement presents and which the market offers, alongside all the benefits that the market also offers. It is our view that political union is too weak because we have built a European Union that is about sharing power, rather than building a European power, in which we are also geopolitically capable of defending our own security policy interests. This is a huge weakness in European cooperation. The only thing really properly organised in Europe is crime and capitalism. And it's a mystery to me how, as a Dane, one with the society that we have built up, with a relatively high degree of equality, with a strong cohesion, with equal partners in the labour market, all the things that one, at least when one has moved Brussels for 10 years, loves about this country, and for which not least the Danish left and the Danish trade union movement have a huge honour, have come up with this equality and labour market struggle, etc. No, you would rather say: Uh, we do not like the European Union because it is the European Union and then you become so nationalist without regard to the fact that the real reality is that the borders have disappeared long ago. There are no banks which are neither Danish nor German nor Greek. After all, they are investment banks all the way across, and everything they do is cross-border. That's what we've had to say. Do we have a political response to this in Europe? No. I know that the Foreign Minister himself, as a European Parliamentarian, took the lead in a committee to combat tax fraud and all those things that are going on in the stumbles of the financial sector. And that is not to say that the financial sector is stumbled, but there are stumbled vessels in the financial sector. And the truth is that there is nothing we can do about the system failures that exist. I think, in many ways, that is an excellent statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, where it fails in the political debate on the Europe of the future, in our lack of courage and will, I hope, will not be able to do so, I think it is more of a will, it is about discussing how we reform European cooperation. In fact, I agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, when he mentions a large number of things that do not work in European cooperation. There are a lot of things that don't work. However, it is due to system failures, and it is of no use that one does not want to make up for the system failures and that one does not have the courage to tear up the things that do not work and just stand and criticise it. For that is the responsibility of inaction. Europe does not need that in any way. We have a Europe in which the rule of law is challenged. It is obvious to everyone, and there have also been central discussions on this in the Committee on European Affairs, too, in relation to the budget, which has been going on for a long time. I do not have any figures on how many resolutions we have made and how many discussions we have had with Viktor Orbán from Hungary in the European Parliament over time, yes, since 2004. I mean, it's really, really serious what we're facing. But do we have that instrument to ensure the rule of law in Europe and the legal certainty of citizens? No, we haven't. Because we do not really have a Constitutional Court, and that is a huge weakness. And why do you not want a Constitutional Court? That's because it's federalism. Well, it doesn't matter what we call it. For me, you could call it anything. However, I cannot understand why it can be argued that it is not in the interests of the citizens that we have a constitutional court in Europe that can defend their interests across borders in a Europe, on a continent where there are no borders, so that we have free movement, including for people. I cannot understand why European cooperation can be criticised over and over again for being undemocratic and too bureaucratic, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned it in one of his speeches, if you do not want to help change the institutional framework of European cooperation. Where is the courage to demand a Treaty amendment that creates open Councils of Ministers so that we know what the government is saying to its colleagues? After all, we all know the story of changing governments saying yes to something in Brussels, and when it comes to implementing it as legislation in Denmark, what happens then? Then you go home and say: well, it is also the European Union that makes all the bad decisions. But you've been involved in meeting them yourself. Much of the false storytelling and the false melody could be removed by the fact that we had open ministerial meetings, and now that we can have open parliamentary meetings, why can we not have open ministerial meetings? But it requires a change in the Treaty, it requires courage. Then it is many who also say: we must have less of the European Union. Well, it is very simple: if you want to have less of the European Union in width, that is to say if you have the view that the European Union is interfering too much in width, then we just need fewer Commissioners. In other words, if we are to have 27 or 28 Commissioners, that would be equivalent to having 27 ministers. After all, they must all legitimise their raison d'être and make proposals so that it does not end as such... Now I will just stop myself before I mention a former minister. However, it is quite logical that if you want to have less Europe in the broadest sense, you must help to look at a reform of the European Commission, which is, after all, the initiator and has the right of initiative in European cooperation. If you want to have more solidarity, if you want to have better protection for workers in the European Union, then it does not mean that, funny enough, you always come up with a no, no and no, for the sake of the no, every time there comes a proposal that tries to create a social framework and a political framework and a political response to free movement, which very quickly turns into unfair movement, because we have different levels of taxation and expenditure and levels of existence in the European Union. The discussion always ends in a national premise, instead of taking it on a Community pretext, on the understanding that we have free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, and that we will probably not roll it back. I believe that this and the Radical Left demand political answers, and that is why we want a stronger political union. And there I feel a much closer cultural affiliation to German historical philosophy than I do to the British liberalist, individualist approach, where the market can control everything and where, moreover, there is no need for an excessively well-organised labour market because it is a sin for business. That is why, in the Radical Left, we would like to see a discussion started in this way when we are about to embark on a Conference of Europe, that is to say a major conference on the Europe of the future, where we are talking not only about the influence of national parliaments in European cooperation, but about the influence of citizens and about the Community preference, and where we take the citizen seriously not only as a Dane, a German or a Greek, but as a European. That is our desire for cultural and politically strengthened European cooperation in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227113837	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments to make if the rapporteur would like to hear them. And the first one is from sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227113844	The rapporteur certainly has! Thank you so much for your speech. I thought there were a lot of good things in it. But I have to ask the same question that I asked to the SF about where the Radical Left's policy is, as it were, determined just with the reverse sign. For where the SF is powerful green down in the European Parliament and a little less at home, it is the other way round with the Radicals. The Radicals are very green at home, but a little less down in the European Parliament. We have, of course, seen the Radicals go out very clearly in relation to the government that action should be taken and that it should be now and so on, and we can only welcome this as some who have supported the 70-percent objective. However, down in the European Parliament we are then voting on 153 proposals from the Commission on where to place EU money, 35 of which I believe are oil and gas projects, and according to information there is an oil terminal in Gdansk, which is a gas pipeline to Malta, and there is an oil pipeline to Bratislava, and a large number of these projects have a duration of over 40 years, that is to say, after the EU has to be climate neutral. And then it doesn't really make any sense that at home you like to fight hard and down there you give support to projects that are CO2 So maybe Mr. Jens Rohde could clarify that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114013	There is nothing I would rather than answer that particular question, because it is based on a misunderstanding. Well, that's the way it is, and I hope so. Søren Søndergaard acknowledges that the list of potential projects, i.e. those that can apply, is a renewal of an existing list. The European Parliament can only say 'yes' or 'no' to the list; you cannot botanise in the list. Mr. Søren Søndergaard all about as a former European Parliamentarian. Then we choose the approach to saying: we would rather have a new list which, however, contains significantly more green elements and green projects than the current list. Because if we had voted against the new list, it was the old list that had been allowed to stand. And we don't think that would be to serve the climate. We would be in a situation where the best would be the worst enemy of the good, and we do not believe that Europe has any interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114119	Yes, and those who agreed with Jens Rohde in that interpretation were then the right-wing nationals and the conservatives, whereas the Greens and the Social Democrats and the Left went against it. But that only puts us in a situation where, if one accepts that logic in the European Union, it also becomes a logic in Denmark. In other words, it becomes a logic that we can, as it were, trade in the climate. And I just think that we should agree on a "But okay, then we'll go into a purely political debate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a serious matter and, for that matter, 55 per cent. in the European Union, although it is very low, we cannot vote for any project, not a single project, which means that we continue not to have climate neutrality after 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114218	But regardless of who makes the interpretation, the facts of the political iron industry are, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that you cannot say no; you cannot, as the European Parliament, botany individual projects. That was a yes to the new list or a no. Then I would say that it is not because we think it is good that we then give a potential opportunity to choose these projects, that we can get oil and gas and things like that. But then we're back to what I said in my speech. What we need is for us to have a fight with some of the system failures that exist in European cooperation, so that the elected representatives of the European Parliament can actually take this situation into account and actually have an opportunity to give priority to the projects that are there. That would have been nice, but that is not the reality today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114315	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114317	Thanks for the speech. I find it interesting that the rapporteur mentions that there is also a need to look at reforming some institutions. I am very much in favour of the form following the function, and the European Union is also faced with rethinking itself. That is why I would like to ask a little more about this and hear from the rapporteur what fora should be taken up here. There are, for example: the conference to be held on the European Union. Is this a place to discuss this? And is there anything else that the rapporteur would like to propose that this should be taken up in? Because I think that's a very important point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114358	I myself have in the European Parliament, among other things. together with Guy Verhofstadt, as some may know, who was the chairman of the Liberal Group, fought for us to have a Convention, in other words a preparatory, what should we call it, a forum with the participation of both national parliamentarians, parliamentarians and governments, etc., who are preparing a new treaty for European cooperation. This is something that we have been fighting for too long, and we think, in this sense, that the conference for Europe should be the start of a European Convention, as it has been in the past, where Treaty changes were made. That is because it is important to have it broadly anchored. However, in my optics, there is no way around reforming European cooperation if we want to solve these challenges that we are facing and that we can all see whether it is in terms of refugees and migration, the rule of law, the climate or in terms of our defence and security policy interests. The last Treaty amendment that was made was, in fact, an attempt to give an answer to east enlargement in such a mathematical way, but it did not provide any political answers, and that is what we are seeing now. That is why we have to dare to take this discussion, but it is always rejected, not least by the Heads of Government, because they fear their own people. However, it is of no use to take this starting point if we want to solve the challenges we face in Europe. That is why we say it openly and honestly and have said it all the time, at least in all the time I have been sitting in parliament, that we must have a European Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114542	It's a shame to hear that the good work you've been trying to do has been slowed from high up. However, is there an alternative, and is there an opportunity yet to use the conference on the future of Europe to take this up and discuss how the European Union should be reformed in order to carry out the expected tasks so that we are sure that we have a modern European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114605	We can start by taking that discussion a little more fundamental in the Danish Parliament and perhaps get a Danish position in relation to it. Well, we do not necessarily have to agree on everything, but we could perhaps agree that the challenges we face also require a settlement of the system errors that exist. Let us just take such a small matter, which always comes up in the debate: Strasbourg travels. No matter where you stand in a public assembly and talk to the European Union, you're asked about those silly Strasbourg trips. And everyone goes to the polls to abolish Strasbourg travel, but that requires a change in the Treaty. That is just the way it is, and it can only be done by unanimity. How do we do that? We do this by offering the French something else, but it requires again that we dare to go in and look at the Treaty so that we can change it. And so it is with many of those things. So it is just a question of us starting the discussion here and then taking it forward through our excellent Minister for Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114655	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, and welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens). Perhaps we should actually make special rules for speaking time, because it is so complicated to talk about the European Union that it is difficult to stay within the existing speaking time. However, I would like to urge that, as long as we have the Rules of Procedure we have now, we try to hit that time. For the rapporteurs in particular, there is a great deal of help because there is a red beating heart that lights up at 0:00, and that means that there is no more speaking time left. Try to notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227114730	It's 20 minutes I have, right? I would like to say thank you for an excellent review. I think that is an excellent review. There are not many political assessments in it, but there is a review, and that gives us the opportunity to have the discussion here. I also think there is a lack of more thorough consideration of what brexit means, but I shall come back to that. Let us start from the fact that this is an excellent review of what is on the EU's agenda and of what will be up in the future. I will concentrate on three and perhaps four points if I reach it. It is the response to the threatening climate disaster, the European Union's involvement in labour market policy and the debate on the future of the European Union, not least in the light of Britain's resignation, and, if I do so, the issue of the European Union's action at international level or in external relations, as it says. First, on the climate disaster. After all, there are many nice words in this statement or it reproduces many nice words that the European Union and the Commission make. For example: writes the Minister in his statement that the President of the Commission has made the green agenda an absolute top priority. That may be true, but we have just heard what the Commission, among other things, has just heard. has done: oil and gas projects lasting over 40 years are something to be given money for. We must, of course, note that the objectives set out are weak. Given that this is an absolute top priority, it is the weak reduction target that is being put forward, up to 55%. Why is it a weak goal to have it up to 55%. By 2030? It is because it makes it almost impossible to become climate neutral by 2050. That is why we in Denmark have chosen the 70%. We could have just chosen 55%, but anyone who has worked with it knows that if we only reach 55%. By 2030, in order for us to get up and be climate neutral by 2050, there has to be a very, very steep curve at the end, which will be very expensive. So it is a weak objective that is. What, then, is the key tool almost until 2030? That is one thing: the seven-year budget, which sets the framework for what can be achieved. And then the question has to be asked: does it make sure that the changes that make us reach 55 per cent and add the clues that we can be climate neutral by 2050? I would say that I very much doubt that. There's just been a new analysis showing how much new money there is in this budget for the climate, compared to what was last. It is quite a small amount of money that is extra for the climate. There are a lot of declarations of intent about what you can do, for example. in the field of agriculture. Many of the declarations of intent were there in the past too, and yet we have seen an agriculture which, until at least a couple of years ago, I have not had the latest figures of an increase in CO2 that means that agriculture has not only not contributed enough, but has actually gone in the wrong direction. That is why we have to say that the conclusion is that it is too little and too late. There I think we need a government and Danish parties which are something more significant than that which, for example. have been expressed in the mandates given in the course of the negotiations that are taking place. The second point I would like to address is the involvement of the European Union in labour market policy. We, who are sufficiently old, remember that we had a LO chairman who used the argument that we could join the EU • It was in 1972 that the nuts we break ourselves, understood that the issue of conditions on the Danish labour market would continue to be sovereign. Nevertheless, we have seen a large number of interventions in industrial relations. Some of the most important are the Viking Line judgment, the Vaxholm judgment, the Rüffert judgment and the Luxembourg judgment. When the question of Vaxholm was before the European Court of Justice, the Danish Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, sent a letter to the European Court of Justice stating that it was a precondition for Danish EU membership that there was no interference in labour market policy. This was not so much listened to by the European Court of Justice. What is being proposed now is a direct intervention in wage formation, in the form of this European minimum wage, where I just have to say that it is not laws that ensure proper minimum wages or ensure compliance with minimum wages. It cannot be done by means of laws. This can be done by means of one thing: professional organisation. Professional organisation and activity are the only things that can ensure that laws are respected. The problem is that it is not being observed in many places. The problem is that there is a large group of working partners and that people agree to work below the minimum wage, and that is why it is the professional conditions that should be addressed, but there we have seen the opposite from the Commission, at least from previous Commissions, in terms of reducing professional rights. That is why there are some of us who, I would say, Mr President. Jens Rohde, doesn't think we should just sit on our hands and say no to everything, but for years we've been fighting for a social protocol. We have even had decisions here in the Folketing, where at least the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative I do not remember the Radical Left, but it may be that Mr. Jens Rohde has voted in favour of the request for a social protocol, a social protocol in which it is said that when there are contradictions between the free movement of labour and the other aspects of the internal market and the fundamental rights of employees, it is the fundamental rights of employees that are at the top, and we certainly think that this should be stated, both in the specific discussions that exist and in the context of the conference on the future of Europe. This brings me to the debate on the future of the European Union. We believe that it should be about the future of Europe, and that is why we believe that Britain's withdrawal from the European Union has demonstrated that the European Union is and remains part of Europe. The European Union is not the whole of Europe. So, the name of the European Union, including the name of its Parliament, the European Parliament, is, after all, a matter for the consumer Ombudsman because they claim something that they are not. It is not Europe's parliament, it is part of Europe's parliament, and it has had an ambition that it should become the whole Parliament of Europe. And, okay, you can say that it has gone in that direction and that it has therefore been accepted, but now it is clear that it is not going to go in that direction. There are countries that do not want to join, and there are other countries that cannot join, and that is why we need to discuss: how do we ensure European cooperation in several areas, cooperation for the whole of Europe, where we promise as much as we can, but where we therefore have all the countries on the level to which it is now possible to get countries to join? An example of how important this is is, of course, the issue of the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. After all, it is quite ridiculous that what is called Europol has been monopolised as a special EU structure. So, isn't Norway going to help fight terrorism? Should Britain not be involved in the fight against terrorism? Then you would say that they are too; they have an agreement on what they can get with them. Yes, they have an agreement that they may be allowed to sit in the second row and then they may be allowed to contribute and may also be allowed to pay, but they cannot be full members. Excuse me, do you think Britain will accept that? No, of course Britain will not accept it, and that is why we will be faced with a situation in which we need to refine, redefine, a number of ways of cooperation in Europe, and I think that conference on the future of Europe should be used for that. Then I can just say a few words about the European Union's external relations. I had written down what I had to write, and then I sat down and saw the deadline last night, and there was actually a very interesting discussion on this very question, i.e. whether the European Union really does enough to support those movements, it is often that fights for democracy, among other things. in the Arab world. Are we doing enough to support the young people in Lebanon? Are we doing enough to support Algeria? Are we doing enough to support Tunisia, where the first prize was won, or are we retiring? If we do enough to support Kurdish-led self-government in Northern Syria, which fights for women's rights, under difficult conditions, we must say so, but where, for example, we are going to be fighting for women's rights. Fighting for it? And their conclusion was very clear: no, the EU is not doing enough. The European Union looks at everything through a very short-term refugee perspective and a terrorist perspective, and this often leads to cooperation with governments that are actually suppressing human rights. I think it is important that we understand that if we are to develop in this area, we must support the forces that are fighting for human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227115735	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227115741	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. The funny thing is, I kind of share many of the analyses that Mr. Søren Søndergaard brings to the square here from the platform, but when it comes to the conclusion, the Enhedslisten loses completely the suck, because then you just stand and say: "Will not, won't, won't!" I don't want in! It is very good to say that you want a social protocol, but if you do not want to contribute to the content of the social protocol, what is it to be used for? And so on. As I know, the Enhedslisten chose to leave Europe, but that does not move the European Union in any direction. It does not matter about European cooperation. Sir. Søren Søndergaard mentions these judgments, and the reason for them is that we have a European system based on freedom of movement. Freedom of movement is the sacred grail of European cooperation. That is why we want a political superstructure on it. That is precisely why we need to have the social protocol, which gets some substance, because if we do, the judgments handed down in the courts will also change. Then Mr. Søren Søndergaard is helping to get fully involved in the European cooperation that is currently planned within the EU circle and then help reform it instead of constantly discussing or sitting outside on the sidelines, as is being done consistently?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227115906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227115909	Well, I'm not going to say that sir... Jens Rohde lost the suck. I shall confine myself to stating that we disagree. But I find it hard to understand how Mr. Jens Rohde from my speech can hear that we're gonna sit outside. These were a large number of concrete proposals on how to work within the EU. We have the basic view, and indeed we have had it for many years, and to some surprise I myself practiced it as an EU parliamentarian for the People's Movement against the EU that as long as Denmark is a member of the EU, you work for what you now stand for. It is clear that there was little difference between how far one could go in the People's Movement against the EU and how far one can go in the Enhedslisten. After all, all the things I have mentioned here are things that Enhedslisten is working for in the European Parliament. We're not gonna stand outside. We work hard to get these things through. When we talk about concrete examples, let us take the social protocol, which is something other than the social dimension. The social protocol is, of course, a very specific protocol drawn up by the European trade union movement, which has received support in a number of European countries and which is precisely about setting a limit on how much the internal market can decide. Yes, the internal market is the Holy Grail, and it is perhaps one of the problems. We may then have a different assessment of how successful it can be to have it changed, but we are happy to work with Mr. Jens Rohde to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120035	That is precisely the fact that it is the Holy Grail. It's funny that we can get along. I just note that the Enhedslisten went to the European Parliament for elections that one would be outside, in other words that one did not want Denmark to be part of the European Union. At any rate, I have done several interviews with the candidate for European Parliament elections, when Radio24seven still existed, where we were able to confirm that this was what was being sought. That doesn't really go anywhere. It does not help to strengthen the European trade union movement, because it is very good to say that one cannot legislate for wages, but I would say that although there are many problems in Germany, the introduction of the minimum wage has actually helped in a number of areas. I recognize that they still have working poor. But when a trade union movement has an organizational percentage of 7, as is the case in France, then it probably requires some political support before one can begin to believe that trade union movements can take on the task of European labour markets.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120131	I would like to begin by saying that I simply cannot understand that Mr. Jens Rohde cannot have so much dialectic in his head that he can understand that, on the one hand, one can be fundamentally opposed to a particular structure and think that it should be replaced by another cooperation in Europe and, on the other hand, say that as long as it exists, we are working within it to make it as good as possible. I'd like to say to Mr. Jens Rohde, that if we achieve what we are working for within the European Union, if we get these things through, then surely some people will say: well, that is fine; then we are not going out. So there's exactly a dialectic between the two things, and that dialectic, I think, Mr. President. Jens Rohde understands. I look forward to working with Mr. Jens Rohde on all the concrete things that can be done to change the European Union, because that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120222	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120224	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur had the expectation that the British would not be satisfied with cooperation in the future in terms of intelligence, police and international crime. There I have another assessment; in fact, I believe that we are facing a challenge on the part of the European Union that we are losing a very large capacity after brexit. So I would rather turn it around and say: how does the EU rapporteur see that we can continue to hold on to the British in this area of cooperation? Then the rapporteur also mentioned that the EU could be discussed in different areas, but it also means that the rapporteur believes that we should have a European Union at different stages for those who want more EU, such as the United States and Japan. will have it a lot on the social pillar, and one for those who want less EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120310	I was actually talking about Europe in several spaces, and that means that the countries that are outside because they want to be outside, for example. The United Kingdom, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, etc., and the countries which cannot be allowed to join, among other things. Because Denmark does not want them to join, it also has a location, and it is clear that they cannot be in the same room as the European Union. In other words, there has to be such European cooperation in different areas, and that is what I mentioned. For my sake, the European Union can do what the European Union wants. In other words, it is a decision for the European Union, and if the European Union wants to integrate and form a single state, for my sake there is no alarm. I have an idea of whether Denmark should be part of it, but it is something else. I think we are actually very much in agreement, and perhaps I have not put myself very well on the subject of Great Britain, because I think it is a huge problem for European police cooperation in relation to cross-border crime and terrorism if Britain disappears. That is why it is very important that we keep Britain in that cooperation. I wonder if this could be done by saying to the United Kingdom that they can get a Norwegian solution where they can pay, be second-rate members and not attend all the meetings. In other words, does it think that Britain, which is one of the most important sources of information, will accept it? No, we must have equal cooperation, and I think that is the way forward: equal cooperation in Europe between the states of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120432	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120441	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, and warmly welcome to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll... Has someone been pressed for a brief comment? Let's do another round. I would ask the rapporteur to come back to the floor. Welcome, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120505	I'm just wondering when I hear sir. Søren Søndergaard spoke so critically about brexit. As he probably listened to what I said, I am full of optimism. I think it sounds like a scepticism, and this also confirms the picture of how Enhedslisten has chosen to place himself in the entire EU debate. It is as if we have gone from active opposition to the European Union to finding such a moderate intermediate position today: on the one hand, and on the other hand, and if we can just change the Treaty here and there, it is not so bad. That's why I'd just like to have Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard to confirm that brexit is the most positive thing that has happened for the democratic development of the European continent since 1945.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120559-2	I'd like to say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that I simply do not understand how Mr. Morten Messerschmidt could get that impression. I believe that the link that has hit Morten Messerschmidt down in the conciliation which he has heard through my presentation has been weak. I can say that the British people had a referendum. They voted on it and a majority voted no. We fully respect that. So, we are quite clear that the fact that Britain is outside the European Union offers some new opportunities for discussing what I was talking about: another European cooperation; a European cooperation in several areas which is not the European Union; where Great Britain must join with all the other countries that are not members of the European Union on totally equal terms. So it is quite positive, quite clear, that it offers some opportunities. Then there is the concrete agreement that Britain is negotiating with the European Union. It's not our cup of tea. I just have to say that because the issue of employees' rights is far from being as precise as we want to be. But that is a question for the British people to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120712	But I wonder if the agreement that is being proposed is really merely cementing that the British are deciding pay conditions and labour market conditions in Britain, and then the EU can decide what should be in the EU? If one imagined a scenario where Denmark followed Britain, then the agreement would just be that the British decide what the situation is in Britain, and the Danes, the Folketing here, how it is in Denmark. Then the whole positive democratic perspective in Brexit is precisely not, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that we can decide for ourselves? I don't understand why, sir. Søren Søndergaard has such a desire to decide what conditions should be in Britain. He's not a member of the British House of Commons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120749	Uh, there it is again. I think I just said that we are not Morten Messerschmidt, why I have such an interest in deciding what is going to happen in Britain. It's up to the British to decide for themselves. I am just saying that the alternative that Enhedslisten is working for in the EU area is an alternative where there is more environmental and climate awareness, where there are better conditions for employees, more protection for employees, etc. That's what we're working for. Of course, we do not think it is an advantage to have an agreement with the European Union, which means that a number of things from the European Union are actually being implemented that are bad. It is, for example. what has happened in Norway. It is called the EEA Agreement. We do not know how it ends in Britain, but we know that some of the things that have been proposed are negative from our point of view. We want it to be a step forward for the Danish people to have cooperation outside the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120852	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to make brief remarks to Mr. Søren Søndergaard? There isn't. Then I would like to warmly welcome Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227120906	Thank you very much. I will do what I can to be brief, because I myself should have been somewhere else by now. Thank you for your statement. After all, it is an excellent statement that describes all the good that the European Union can and will do. This is also very positive, and I was, in fact, a little surprised to see such a positive statement, especially when we have a reasonable EU-sceptic Prime Minister. However, precisely when the statement is so positive, I cannot help but become a little sceptical and, in fact, a little critical, and I am otherwise fairly pro-EU and also want us to talk the EU up: but then I have to go to the other side a little bit. Dk4 is producing a broadcast about the EU in crisis. In fact, they bring up nine crises, and there is little to be done: the identity crisis, the demographic crisis, in other words pensions; what it is going to cost. There is plenty to address: the Brexit crisis and what it means for our cohesion, and security and migration. There are plenty of crises and challenges. And we are in a world that is undergoing a great transformation, both geopolitically and geoeconomically, and now we are also seeing a geotechnical transformation. So I miss in such a statement here that you look at the challenges that the European Union and Europe face and face. Brexit was a huge shock to all of us. Not only is a large geographical piece torn by the EU, but also a large piece of confidence in the EU project has been removed. We also see scepticism in several countries and it is growing. I think this is a major challenge for the European Union in the future. What happens if that scepticism increases even more in Italy? What, then, are we dealing with with the European Union? We also have democratic values under pressure in the European Union. What are we gonna lift here? It is not because we have common values in the European Union, but because there are principles of the rule of law that are extremely important to deal with. At any rate, I hope that, in future, the use of the rule of law as a means of budgetary control will also be tackled in budgetary terms. We can also use brexit to think about where the European Union is going. Where is the European Union going to be in the future? It could have been interesting if some scenarios had also been described in such an explanation here. After all, we see a Macron who just wants a multi-speed Europe that can get off the wagon. He certainly wants to be an EU leader, but he cannot be yet. Should we have a more slender European Union that focuses more on trade, or should we have, as we believe, an EU that is big on the big things and small on the small things? We also need to look at where that is, trust between citizens and the European Union and Brussels. How can we use the conference that is going to be about the European Union? I think it's a weird word to use. That already sounds very bureaucratic and procedural to me. You would need more public hearings, involve the parliaments, discuss the wider issue of where we are in the European Union. What do we mean by increasing the cohesion of the European Union and the social cohesion, as it is called in good Danish? What do we want? The positive thing about the European Union here and now, I think, is actually in relation to the climate crisis, where the European Union can move forward and should show leadership. I think the President does the same with his Green Deal. It is the European Union that can lift up our green transition, and it is the European Union that can help to create those alliances and help to put very necessary pressure on countries such as India, the United States and China to promote the green transition. How can the EU also use its trade agreements more strategically to lift the green transition, for example? by making stronger demands for compliance with the Paris Agreement? I think it is much more exciting if we could discuss some of these aspects in relation to the European Union and what we can use the European Union more for and also what the European Union should not be used for. After all, we think that there is a great deal that we can do with the European Union, especially with regard to migration and asylum, but what are we going to do there? Fortunately, some of us are going out to look at some of those things soon. The green transition, research and indeed our trade cooperation must not be taken for granted. It is very important that we keep it free and fluid for the Danish economy, for our jobs and for access to free trade agreements. But there are also some things in which we have to say: the European Union should not decide on us here, for example. when it comes to the minimum wage or whether we have to have maternity leave for men... we will find out for ourselves in Denmark. We do not need to have an EU decision on this. I think that will also make it more clear to the Danes and to others what is the EU's focus and area, but also what are the EU's limitations. For the ambiguity surrounding the spread of the European Union and about how something gets through us here in the Folketing and how a lot leaks out through directives and other things can do nothing but create a certain amount of EU skepticism, and it does not get any less. So I think it is important that we also have a debate here about what we want to do with the European Union in the future. Is there also a need for some reforms? I think that would be a very exciting discussion, as Mr. Jens Rohde left earlier. With this I would like to say that it is an excellent statement, but I think it would have dressed it if it had also shown some of the problems and raised some of the issues that we need to discuss, even if it were to be extended. Because I am afraid that if you read this statement, as it is just on paper, you cannot help but become a little bit EU-sceptic and suspicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121513	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121517	Yes, and that is because I feel the urge to say that Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll is probably the best Conservative EU rapporteur I have encountered for many, many years now. It's totally liberating. I've also known sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for many years because we come from the same city, and he's been mayor where I live. And I have always seen Søren Pape Poulsen as a little very EU-sceptic to my taste; he is very sceptical about the European Union. And now I hear a Conservative People's Party opening up more and more to a progressive debate on European cooperation. It is fine that we disagree on small things and one thing and the other and that sort of agreement makes stupid, so it's all fine. But can Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll's speech be interpreted as saying that the Conservative People's Party will also be open to working for a Convention so that we can bring about the necessary reforms of European cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121628	Yes, it is also the position of the Conservatives that we will be in favour of a major debate on how we will have the European Union in the future, and that also means institutions. We need to be open to the discussion about how it should look and then it may well be that we arrive at some things where we do not agree on which way we should go. However, we are certainly open to discussing what the European Union will look like in the future, as well as the United Nations has now undergone a huge reform process, both in form, function and management, here within two years and even led by a Dane. So there we are open to looking at having an open discussion about it. I think that is very important for us to look at: what the European Union is supposed to do, and also how the European Union works, among other things. This is also what we are seeing going back and forth to Strasbourg. I know many Danes think this is completely up to the point that so many resources are spent every two weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121723	Thank you for that answer. It is, of course, just before you dream yourself back to the VKR government of the 1980s when we discuss the European Union. Yes, we are allowed to fly a little and we are allowed to discuss reforms in European cooperation. I think that is extremely perspectiveful. It's a little more difficult in other respects, I think, with the government. So thank you, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. I interpret it as saying that it is desirable to see Treaty changes in European cooperation both in order to strengthen it, but also in order to give priority to the field of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121807	We would like to discuss Treaty changes, but that does not mean that we are saying that we are deciding on treaty changes. It is like saying that we would like to start discussing accession with certain countries; that does not mean that they are admitted. But it is quite clear that we also believe that we should learn from brexit. What's happened? Why has a country so big pulled out? What are the challenges that have been? And what is it like if we also want to say: we must not just continue to expand the budget to the EU; we want to keep a budget-restrictive line? Then we must also be sure that the European Union can operate within a new and restrictive budget and, at least, maintain it. After all, there are more challenges that the European Union must take care of, but then it must also be said that there are some things that the European Union should not do. And it may well be that some treaty changes will have to be included in this, but we are certainly open to dialogue on it, and we will look forward to it with Mr Beazley. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121857	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. I do not see anyone else wishing to make brief comments to the rapporteur, so warmly welcome Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227121908	Thank you. It is always a little funny when you sit and take part in these statements, i.e. how people have read what they have been sent from the minister. I might as well say it as it was, that I thought, was that it? Now we have a European Minister for Foreign Affairs in Denmark, a strong Member of the European Parliament in the past, and then there is actually just such a list of things. Where are the visions, where are the attitudes, where are we going with this? I was thinking, "Oh, my God. It is not because the areas that are being affected are not important, because they are, after all, the key issues, and that is what we are all talking about, brexit, the budget, the green agenda, migration, the internal market, social dialogue and so on. etc. But it's just a list of things that I'm sorry to say. This is also true in relation to everything that I think is quite central: the conference on the future of the European Union, which could of course be very interesting if you were willing to put some interesting content into it. I myself was involved when DiEM 25, a European grassroots movement, was created in February 2016, when we were just talking about the need to create a single citizens' convention to look at the future of the European Union. And you could imagine all sorts of great things you could get out of this for the development of our community. But it just seems that it is mostly about the fact that a little is enough and that we should not talk about anything that is going to affect anything like institutions or treaties, because it is far too dangerous. But we have to if we are to develop our community and our cooperation. I think that what characterises the debate at the moment, and in which I am actually a little sorry about the work of the European Union in Denmark at the moment, is that I think we have had an EU-sceptic government, and I think we are sceptical about a great many agendas. I am often asked, when there are resignations in the European Committee, how I can sit and vote with EU-sceptic parties such as the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, and that is because what we are discussing is the government's position on the things that are on the table. And I have to say that I am deeply disappointed with the Danish position very, very often, especially when it comes to the budget. In the statement, this long list of things is about how we're going to do it when we're going to solve this, and there's a budget approach that's very, very square about the size of the 7-year budget instead of content. It is certainly not surprising to any of the rapporteurs who are in the Chamber, or to them in the ministerial taboos, that this is the position of the alternative. I think it is a pity, precisely when you see the super-work that has been done in the European Parliament, where we have just been working on how we can really get to grips with the green transition, how we can really do something about the social agenda, and not just how little is enough and how we can stick to the fact that everything remains as it is, rather than the actual change that needs to be done. When the European Parliament elections were held in the spring, the alternative went to elections with some other European movements and parties, and the central point of our election campaign was a green new deal, that is, a real new deal, which was about how we together create a green transition, how we together ensure, through the green transition, to create the jobs that are needed in Europe, so that there is a real job guarantee, how we make this a joint project in which we promise together. The election went as it did, but fortunately I can see that the electoral plan, the green new deal, has now turned into a whole project which a great many Members of the Socialist Group, the Left, the Greens have taken up, and work has been done on it, and a working group has been put in place in this House and so on, so that is very sensible. But it is just here that we clearly see a Commission coming up with their little green deal, which is basically a greening of a growth package from Juncker and which does not go in and respond to the real challenges. Once again, with the Climate Act in the back pocket of the Danish side, we could beat the table and say: This is not good enough, we have to move on. It is not that the proposal in this is bad, but it is just not enough. We need to understand in relation to the point we are facing now with the challenges we face, both as a nation state and as Europeans, but also as a global society, that it is not enough to think how little is necessary, no, there we have to think ambitiously. So we're gonna do these things, and we're gonna do it together. I think it is very central, including in the debate on the whole climate agenda, that we are pointing a little at Poland because they say no to increased objectives, but what if we turned it around and said that it is not about setting a target for each country, but about us actually lifting it together? Small steps have been taken again with this green deal with this Just Transition Fund, which we hope can be strengthened, because that's where we go in and do things together. Then it is not about standing and shaming countries or pointing at them and saying what they have to do, because then it is about us doing this together and seeing this as a necessary transformation together. Then I would like to touch on the whole question of the rule of law and then also on the enlargement negotiations. I think I will start with the enlargements, and then I can end up with a positive note to the Foreign Minister in the end. I think it is very, very important that we on the Danish side go in and support the applicant countries that are, in other words both Albania and Northern Macedonia, because there is a need to create the development in the Western Balkans that they are shouting for, and the Danish position so far seems to me to have been very, very sad, very, very disappointing. I think the Commission has now come up with some good things, and that is why I really hope that Denmark will play pro-actively in getting the actual accession negotiations started with these countries. I see it as absolutely crucial for the development of the Western Balkans right now that we are moving forward in this, because we cannot disappoint them once again and, unfortunately, Denmark has played a major role, both the previous and the present government, in this work. Finally, with regard to the rule of law, I would like to say that one of the things that is really important is that we stick to our values in Europe, that we are based on values, and we do so together. We have the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and it is, after all, a great value-writing about how to keep up with each other, and that is where we just have to say that we are so challenged in our community. When, in Poland, cities are able to introduce free zones, when you see the attack that has been on the free courts also in Poland or what is going on in Hungary and elsewhere, we really have a lot of work ahead of us, and I therefore believe that we will only solve this if we say even louder, even more clearly, that the European Union is there for Europeans, the European Union is not there for the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227122620	You're welcome. There is no brief comment to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, so we say thank you. And then I would like to welcome Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227122632	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the development of EU cooperation. The statement gives the impression that the European Union has many ambitions for the future of the European Union, and it is then again an EU cooperation which seems to expand its responsibilities. I do not want to go through the areas; they are in the statement, and various of them have already been mentioned in the debate. It is sometimes said by several parties that parts of the European Union must be rolled back. But I do not see so many examples of this in this statement. The section on brexit and relations with Britain is interesting. It is true that it does not take up so much in the statement, and I agree with Morten Messerschmidt that it is strange that it has not been dealt with anymore. Brexit is a huge event. I believe this is the biggest event in Europe since the fall of the Wall. Now we have a country that has resigned, and it has been predicted that things will go badly for them. This has already been criticised, because the negotiations have been very chaotic, but they managed to be reported out here at the end, and now we will see whether the predictions of how bad Britain is going to go are true or not, or whether there have been scaremongers. We can't say anything about that yet. Now they have to negotiate the agreement here this year and it will be exciting to see how it is going to work out. I hope, of course, that they will have a sensible agreement with the European Union so that we do not end up with a hard brexite. But it is still too early to say. We are certainly looking forward very much to seeing how things are going for Britain in the coming years. It will also have an impact on the mood of the people in Denmark, which is, of course, very EU-positive at the moment. And there is no question of anyone wondering about the course and the way in which it has been communicated in connection with brexit. So I am optimistic that Denmark will also be able to resign at some point. Of course, we hope that we can have a vote on this, but it may not be right now. Then I would like to say about the MFF that, of course, we are very pleased with the government's budgetary line and fully support the mandate that we have helped to give. I would just like to mention one paragraph on migration and border control, which talks about the fact that there is no longer a migrant crisis in the European Union. We in the New Citizen do not agree with that. I do not think that all the countries of southern Europe agree with that either. There is still pressure on the external borders, especially in Greece, and many have also come to Italy. It's going a little up and down, depending on how the political winds are. But the migration that we have to Europe is still untenable. We also face increasing challenges with secondary movements within the EU. The report also states that the many initiatives taken by the European Union since the refugee and immigrant crisis in 2015 have had a noticeable effect. It is true that the European Union has taken initiatives, but we should remember that the main effort to curb the flow back in autumn 2015 was not carried out by the European Union; it was carried out by the nation states. It was when they began to travel border fences in Eastern Europe that the influx was significantly reduced. So these were national actions and not actions at EU level. But, of course, we support measures that can further limit influx from the European Union. So we still believe that there should be a full focus on migration, and we still believe that we should talk about a migrant crisis. That is what I wanted to make of comments here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123021	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to the last rapporteur, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123035	Thank you for that, and thank you to the government for the statement, which we agree with on many points, but where we also miss something. For what determines the future of the European Union in the long term is, in our view, whether the European Union is capable of dealing with the things that are important at European level and failing to deal with the things that are better at national level. We are warm supporters of the European Union because we can see so many areas where it is good that European countries coordinate their policies and agree their policies together. Let me mention here some of the important areas that the European Union should deal with in depth. Of course, we have the common internal market, the fact that goods, services and labour can move from one end of Europe to the other end of Europe under the rules which are jointly set by the countries. We also need a common border guard at the external borders, because that is the best way to protect Europe from dangers that might be outside Europe and that would have to come to Europe if we did not make a joint effort. We need a common policy on cross-border pollution. We need common security policy clarification and coordination and possibly even more binding decisions. We need a common foreign policy in a number of matters where Europe is united and in common interests and where we are best placed to deal with the great world. That is why we have the European Union and that is why Denmark should be part of the European Union. That is a good purpose and it is good to have a common policy on them at European level. But then things come from a more politically active European Union all the time, under the influence of the currents of southern European countries, of the left in the European Parliament and so on, where it is believed that the European Union should deal with everything that is really national competences. Then we need rules on how many of each gender should be on boards. Then we need rules on whether children in Denmark can wear newspapers when they are 11 years old. Then we need common rules on tax levels in the various countries. We need intelligent readers of our electricity consumption in all homes, because it is the European Union's view that the European Union should decide. We need to have EU policy on how many electric car electric chargers should be in different parking spaces in the different countries. All that is mentioned here, and this is only a small selection of the cases in which the European Union crosses borders and deals with things that are not cross-border issues, but which, on the contrary, are merely an expression of policy-making for the sake of politics, which is helping to undermine confidence that the European Union can find out about being the European Union rather than pretending to be a national parliament. You have to be on guard all the time. All the time, governments in the individual countries must be vigilant on behalf of the principle of subsidiarity, which was incorporated into the Treaty back in 1992. As far as I remember, and as was interpreted in the Danish debate, one should only deal with things at EU level if it was the best place to do so and if the problems could not be better solved at national level. That principle seems to have been forgotten in many places, both in the EU system, but unfortunately also in the national governments, including the Danish governments, when they have to decide on proposals from the EU. The question is simply not asked: is this really a cross-border issue on which we should take joint decisions, or is this a purely national matter on which we are best taking decisions on national issues, concrete here in Denmark? I do not think that the government's statement is correct about when something is cross-border and should therefore be the subject of EU policy development and when policy does not have cross-border consequences and should therefore be left to national parliaments alone. I miss that in the government statement, so I would urge that in a year's time, when you get your chance again, you address that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123537	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123541	I am sorry I wasn't in the Chamber, but I have to get up in the chair and I just had to get something to eat. So I heard Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's speech back here and heard his speech about the principle of subsidiarity. I was thinking of a comrade I once had, whom I asked in 1992: do you know what the principle of subsidiarity is? And then he said, no, and if that's how I get it, I'm going to see a doctor. What's the problem is that it's such a rubber paragraph. And I'm not quite sure that sir... Søren Søndergaard, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, sir. Ole Birk Olesen and I will always be able to agree politically on when something is national competence and when it is not national competence. Elsewhere, e.g. In Germany, you have a Constitution with a Constitutional Court. And this federal constitution provides a very, very clear division of powers between Berlin and the Länder. And if someone from Berlin tries to cross that border, any citizen or any state can always go to the Constitutional Court and try whether it is Bundeskompetenze. What does the Liberal Alliance say about such a constitutional form in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123707	I'm not gonna be able to say that. I need to think about it more and read more about it. Nor do I think that we necessarily need something like this in the short term. We should agree on something once in a while, for example. when there are EU rules on how many electric car charging stations to be set up in car parks in Denmark. Then it should be the case that the Danish Parliament, whether or not it was agreed that it should be set up in Denmark or not, agreed that this is not something that the EU should decide. The EU can set objectives on how much energy there is to be green and how much CO2 This is not the EU's business; it is something we decide in Denmark as long as we comply with the general objectives of the pollution policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123801	Yes, yes, and we can always discuss that again. Well, it kind of sounds very reasonable to me, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says there. But that does not change the fact that, when we have these ongoing discussions, we have some, we have to say, structural challenges in European cooperation. And what I mentioned in my speech was that there are some system errors. And I always hear all sorts of mention of these system failures, but I rarely hear that anyone wants to change them. After all, they are based on the Treaty, like all judgments of the European Court of Justice, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt always calls the Activist Party is provided for in the Treaty. And that is why perhaps that is where you should go and look if you think that there is, for example. is a problem with concepts such as the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123850	Well, I'm not going to rule out that sir. Jens Rohde is right about this. I'm just saying I have a need to study it more closely. I have been an EU rapporteur for six months. I'd like to go deeper into it, as sir. Jens Rohde is talking about here. But whatever it says in paragraphs and in constitutions etc., I would say that if there is no vivid support for the principles that are sought to be written down in those paragraphs, i.e. if there is no political support for it, I am not sure that the paragraphs will get you to anything. There are many parties who would like to call themselves green and so on, and so they may think that you are sending a green signal by saying that there must be so many barnstands in so many parking spaces and so many parking spaces. But why isn't one of the parties who says that subsidiarity is really a matter of concern and that you want to be allowed to decide it here in Denmark? That is not something that the European Union should decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123938	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227123941	The last remark, I think, was a bit curious, so that the only way for the European Union to be effective is if there is a lively support for the provisions in question. I think I can say that there are a great many provisions in the EU Treaty that have no lively support in the population at all, yet have a huge legal force. Peace be to it. No, what really interested me and that was why I took the floor was that what we heard from Mr. Jens Rohde, was, so translated into a more direct language: should we not get a German Europe? In fact, the idea of the European Union was that we should have a European Germany, but now we go in full with marching and out there and say: let us have a German Europe; Ordnung muss sein, und... And therefore I cannot understand why Mr. Ole Birk Olesen cannot be a little more categorical in his report to Mr. Jens Rohde's proposal for an EU Constitutional Court and say no. And he can just do it in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124041	Well, this is that principles written down in black and white in a constitution or a constitution have no value if there is no lively support for it in the societies where they apply should be Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows. That is also why, for example, we have to look at the situation. can fear that too many people will come to Denmark who do not support liberal democracy and the spirit of the Constitution, because what does it really mean in the constitution? So, therefore, the prerequisite for political principles to exist in reality is that there is a spirit in the people that supports it. And I didn't hear sir. Jens Rohde said he wanted a German Europe. I heard Mr. Jens Rohde so that he said there is a principle of constitutional decisions in Germany which he considers to be an excellent principle. He wanted it to be introduced in Denmark too. Well, it's not like if we eat a Currywurst in Denmark, we want a German Denmark. And it is also not the case that if we introduce a good constitutional principle, if it is good; I have to get to the point where we suddenly become a German Europe or a German Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124144	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124145	No, I agree. But when I react in this way, it is because the way in which the German modern state is built is a federal state construction where there are clear competences in the Länder and then a strong federal court that determines the limits. And then we can discuss whether it is dynamic or not dynamic. And if you transfer it to Europe, it is a federalisation, because then you see the Member States of the European Union as states rather than nation states. But we may have to take it in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124218	Well, that's not how I think it is. I think it is the case that, within that principle, it is possible to establish that the starting point is the nation. And under certain circumstances, decision-making powers are passed on to the supranational, i.e. the European Union. In addition, there can be a constitutional body at national level that looks at whether the conditions for delivering sovereignty upwards have been respected. And if you don't, you can say no. At any rate, it cannot get worse than it is today in Denmark, where we almost automatically say yes to everything that comes from the European Union, no matter how little it is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124257	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. This did not lead to any further brief comments. Before we go to the second round, it is first the Minister who must be allowed to reply to the first round. That is why I warmly welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227124311	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for the debate on the statement. It is, of course, a statement, but I can hear that there are many views on what a statement should be, but I would also like to say that to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist is trying to list some of the topics and thematics that are. However, I appreciate that it provides a framework for a substantive debate on the European Union, because that is what we need to have, and I believe that many of us are sitting in this room who believe that there is a need for a thorough debate on European cooperation. I would also like all the rapporteurs to be present when we take the debate, because I think that I could send a good signal to the rest of the population that we are taking this very seriously. In addition to today's debate on the statement, we also have a question debate on the conference on the Europe of the future, which several of you have also touched on, and of course I would like to say a few words about that. However, it is just to emphasise that we are at an historic moment for the European Union. Brexit is a reality. A number of people have been talking about the negotiations on our future cooperation, the legislative work in the EU is about to start again for full steam, and the negotiations on the EU budget over the next seven years are under way. The direction we are setting now will therefore have a major impact on our options for action in the coming years, and that is why we have an important debate here today. The new European Parliament, which was also mentioned by several of the rapporteurs, met in July last year after an election with an historically high overall turnout. At home, it rose from 56 percent. in 2014 to 66 per cent. Last year. So, regardless of what views you have on European cooperation, I really think it is very positive that our peoples want to influence the European Union and the development of that cooperation. That is why it is also extra important what we can do to make it easier to understand and follow EU cases in practice. That is something that I am strongly convinced of. And for me, this issue is thus inextricably linked to the issue of greater openness, which several rapporteurs also mentioned, which I welcome. Openness about what is going on in the European Union is an issue that is dear to my heart, and it is a matter for me and the government of which I am a part. That is why I also want to bring together a coalition of ministers and Members of the European Parliament, which will promote openness in the European Union. The aim must be to establish an alliance across the Member States and the institutions of the European Union which can set a tangible transparency agenda for the conference on the future of Europe. This should help to promote our desire to increase transparency, especially on the EU's legislative processes. I believe that if we have greater openness on these matters, there will also be greater public interest and greater media interest, and that will in itself help to create a better debate on what we should and what we should not do, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen's discussion about what, for example, are common competences and what lies in the nation states. So we must ensure that there is openness. It can be said that the European Union must be as clear as Danish water, in terms of how we are going to work. I am in dialogue with my fellow ministers in the European Parliament on this new initiative and I hope to be able to officially launch this coalition within a short time. The coalition must work actively to promote initiatives for more openness, for example. in relation to the so-called trialogue negotiations, but also in areas such as access to documents and easier access to documents. It must be easier for both the public and the media to follow the decision-making process in the European Union, and they must be able to put their elected representatives, whether it is here in the Folketing or in Parliament, to account for their decisions. I think that is very important. Then I also hope and it is important for me to stress that the Danish Parliament and other national parliaments will support this approach, not least on the basis of the good initiatives that the Danish Parliament's parties have already taken together in the context of the transparency agenda, and I would like to acknowledge that attention is also being paid to it here. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt and others mentioned brexit. On 1 February, Britain resigned from the European Union and now comes the negotiations on the future. We know from the outset that the British Government has refused to extend the transitional period, which expires at the end of the year, so we are therefore faced with a short, intense and, incidentally, very compressed negotiation process with the negotiating mandate that we approved here on Tuesday. In fact, less than a month after Brexit became a reality, the 27 countries reached agreement on a common position on future cooperation. I think this is a sign of health and strength, and it shows an important cohesion. I am very pleased that a deep and broad partnership has been set up with the EU's most ambitious free trade agreement so far, which has ever been offered to a third country. That's what we're putting forward. That is what we want, so that ambition is high. It is linked to fair conditions of competition so that we do not risk dumping standards to the detriment of Danish companies and jobs. Because that is the other side where I might well miss a little more realism, including from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and others' side. We must ensure that the Danish interests are also safeguarded in the agreement that will be on the table, hopefully before the end of the year. We must also ensure our fishing activities. We must ensure that the work on foreign and security policy is carried out, such as: Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also mentioned is an important part of European cooperation. In other words, Brexit will be high on the EU agenda for some time to come. Then there is the multiannual budget. It has also been debated here. You know that last week the Prime Minister took part in this extraordinary summit of the European Council. This multiannual budget was discussed, as it is called, on the basis of the President-in-Office's proposal that it should be 1.07%. of bni. According to the government's position, this is an excessively high level of expenditure, so there is a need to prioritise. After all, we do the same when we do annual financial law negotiations at home. That is only right and proper, and we must also be able to do so in Europe. So I think there are two things: it is important that we have a realism in relation to the size of the budget, and then we have an ambition about the content of the budget. In other words, we are giving priority to those areas which make a concrete difference to the citizens: whether it is the climate struggle, which I think we have a duty, even after the elections last year, to promise; whether it is the migration agenda, Africa, research or development. Where European added value can be seen to such an extent, it is very important that the budget is modernised so that it reflects the priorities that citizens expect us to focus on. We have great ambitions • several were mentioned in the green area. Our vision is, of course, from the Danish Government that the EU, which started as a coal and steel union, should become a climate union. It's really important, and it's not just a slogan. This is something that we are working for in the general policies that we come up with. After all, the new Commission, which came into force on 1 December, has published the work programme for 2020, which we have also discussed in the European Committee. It can be said that the priorities of that programme are, overall, well run with the Danish EU priorities. The green agenda is a priority. Now, of course, it is the content that has been mentioned by several rapporteurs. The Green Pact European Green Deal presented by the Commission is ambitious. That's good. The aim is to make the green transition a cross-cutting consideration of EU cooperation; that by 2050, the EU should be climate neutral; that at least 25%. The EU's budget must go for climate-related purposes. We also welcome government communications from the Climate Commission on a green pact. This is therefore in keeping with the government's own green agenda. In the area of migration, which I also think is important, we have also addressed in the report, and several of us have mentioned this, and we can see that the EU's efforts since 2015 have, of course, significantly reduced the pressure. A migration challenge is still missing. There is still untenable pressure on the EU's external borders and challenges with secondary movements within the EU. So it's important to stay focused on it too. It is obvious that this migration challenge calls for new ideas and that irregular migration to Europe must be reduced. That is why the government has launched the project of a fair and humane asylum system, among other things. with a desire to establish reception centres in third countries. In addition, Denmark is working with a number of other countries for changes to Schengen cooperation to prevent these secondary movements within the EU and to create more flexible rules for temporary internal border controls, which we are also very concerned about by the government. Government is also pushing for the EU to allocate more funds in the next budget to a significant increase in Africa and to strengthen efforts in the area of migration. The internal market was also mentioned by several of the rapporteurs. After all, we are still an important economy in the world, even though Britain has left the internal market, the customs union and the European Union. We are, in fact, the most well-developed free trade area at all. By the way, we are also the cooperation that has the most free trade agreements in the world. So we are an important, important player in this area to ensure what is also Denmark's interest, namely to be a free trade nation where we live by interaction with the rest of the world. We create Danish jobs that are the prerequisite for Danish welfare and prosperity. So it is really important for us to raise that agenda. In this context, we need to prepare Europe for the digital age, and I would, of course, have liked to have had a great debate on that too, because I believe that there really are some challenges here. We must strengthen Europe's strategic position in the global economy. We're gonna have to, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report, which he has presented to the Commission, and I think this is a very important and important agenda. Then there is the point that the internal market must be of benefit to Denmark, to the Danes and to the workers, and that is why we mean it when we say that free movement must also be fair movement. Social dumping is unacceptable and we must combat it and we will fight it. We have presented some ideas on the part of the government ourselves, and the future European labour market authority must play a key role in ensuring this. So let me be quite clear: a common European minimum wage is not the answer. It is absolutely essential that the EU's salaries respect national competence. Salaries are a national matter which is left to the social partners in Denmark. We won't give up on that. By the way, with what we have done in Denmark, in the Danish model, what raises wages and working conditions at best, also for some of the groups which in many other countries are the lowest paid, have managed to ensure better conditions in Denmark. So we have a system, a Danish model that actually works in relation to lifting it, and we should not give up on that at all. Let me also say a few words about something, and now Jan E. Jørgensen is not here, but he wanted to say a little more about the EU's external role or global role. It is true that the European Union has strengthened its focus on security and defence policy cooperation. There is an increased threat of terrorism. We must also bear that in mind. It is important that we work together on the security agenda. There is a worsening security landscape in Europe's neighbourhood. We can just see what is going on in the Middle East, in Libya, in Syria, in Iraq and so on, so we have a huge task to do together in the European Union and play a role here. The new Commission has also first established a Directorate-General for Defence Industry and Space Policy with responsibility for the internal market in the field of defence. We must also remember that the future European Defence Fund and the coordination of EU efforts to improve military mobility are examples of how the European Union can contribute to the added value of European security and defence cooperation. In relation to the defence reserve and the discussion on that, I would also like to say that I, like Jan E. Jørgensen, welcome the DIIS report commissioned by the previous government and on which conclusions have been drawn. I think it is extremely important that we debate what challenges we face. This is not the same as the fact that I believe that we should have a vote on the abolition of the defence reserve. I do not think so, but it is the basis of Danish European policy, but I think that the discussion on how it develops and the fact that we ensure that Denmark's interests are safeguarded in this respect is absolutely crucial, and we can actually make a great deal of promises in the area of existing cooperation, as we are doing in the field of defence and security policy as well. A European leadership is needed. We can see how both Russia and China and other powers pose challenges for us, and it is important that we come forward on the international stage. Also, when the United States steps back to some extent, it is important that we have a strong European voice in the world, and that is something for which I, as Foreign Minister, naturally work hard. In conclusion, I would just like to mention that the basic thing for the government is that the European Union and the cooperation we are doing must constitute a positive difference that can be seen and felt in the daily lives of our citizens and of our businesses, and that is in the areas where it counts and where we must be active and show that we are making a difference. So for the government, it is important in any discussion of EU cooperation that the EU is there for the citizens and not the other way around. I think that in today's debate we have come around many important issues and I think that we could have spent the rest of the day debating many of them. However, I think, if I may just zoom out and look at it a little, that after all we share one thing: firstly, that we are discussing content and policy in relation to the direction in which the European Union should develop in cooperation, and that we all agree that what is crucial is that the European Union demonstrates its value to citizens and businesses in the Member States, and that this is what is at stake. And I have no doubt that in the world we are entering today, with greater power rivalry, pressure on standards, values and rules, multilateral institutions, the UN, the World Trade Organisation, etc., it is very important and crucial that we have strong European cooperation in which we share values. That also means that, for example, this is the case. in relation to such things as the rule of law, what the Treaty says, the Copenhagen criteria, which we ourselves helped to formulate in 1993 in Copenhagen, is absolutely essential that it is values that are fought for every day. Because I think that if we start taking some of these things for granted, we're already starting to lose them, and we're in a world where some of these things are under pressure. Then I would just like to mention one rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Rohde, who said that this is a political response to the challenges of free movement and the market. Perhaps I would like to make a big surprise there and say that I very much agree with that. I do not think we always agree on what the answer is, but that it is a political battle, that we are in a political battlefield and that that is what this is all about. That is also why, when we say that we want to combat social dumping and make free movement a fair movement, it is a political struggle. Because we see that there are some of the people who see whether it is the lorry drivers who see that they are being undercut by foreign labour, or it is the craftsman or others who see that freedom of movement and the internal market have not necessarily benefited them, it is a political battleground. We must safeguard and safeguard the interests of those citizens, and I am glad if that is what lies in it. Well, then I'd just like to hope that mr. Jens Rohde will also support the Danish model as wholeheartedly and unconditionally as the Danish government does, and that he can see that there are limits to what to do with EU rules that in this way compromise the Danish model. So thank you for a good debate. I hope that we will also be able to use our annual statements in the future to have a broad debate, but also to focus on the political direction that we jointly set for European cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227125947	You're welcome. But the debate is far from over, I see. There's a lot of eagerness. The first brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227125958	Thank you. There are many things you could go down in, but I think that some of the interesting things that I really want to discuss a little more are the concern here about openness in the work and the work that the Foreign Minister has set in motion. I think it would be really interesting to hear about what the vision is like behind it. Because we sometimes struggle with openness and understanding and insight into the work of working groups, etc. Is it the intention of the government to work for real openness, so that parliamentarians can also gain insight into the working groups which sit, where the countries sometimes vote and make speeches, etc., or is it just the work of the Council of Ministers that we are thinking of?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130044	Well, the vision of openness is clear. After all, I believe that the more openness and transparency we have in European cooperation in legislative processes and trialogues and access to documents, the more democratic and better anchored it becomes. After all, I myself have been sitting in the European Parliament facing the challenges of a lack of openness, and that is why it is a matter of heart for me and for the government to put us at the forefront of this. So, yes, I can say yes to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's question is something where I think we can strengthen the European Union. There is, of course, historical support for European cooperation today, but I think that we can have it even better anchored if openness becomes more pronounced in the European Union, and I will fight for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130124	That's very good to hear. And, as the Minister also mentioned, this is something that we in the committee have been very concerned with over the last four years and have a lot of input to, so the Minister just says so. Then I would like to hear a little about the vision of moving from coal and steel union to climate union. I remember that the sentence was repeated over and over again in the election campaign in May. Is it satisfactory if a budget for the next seven years lands on climate mainstreaming of only 25% if you really want to be a climate union? Is that really enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130158	The government's position is clear: we must be as ambitious as possible. And it has to be real climate action, because you can set some percentage, but we also have to be sure that what is below the percentage is investment in something that really makes a difference in climate. In addition to that, there is regulation. The budget is very important, and we must make it green and climate mainstreaming and so on, but it is also about regulation, that is to say the common rules that we adopt. And may I give just one example here in my short speaking time. There are, for example: The rules on ecodesign and labels • what you know out there • which is a regulation, and when they are phased in, you actually get a saving on energy consumption that corresponds to the whole of Italy's energy consumption in 1 year, because you have made a regulation that is right. So it is both budget and regulation that we are ambitious on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130249	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130251	I noticed that the Minister may have been such a manifestation of a little controversy that the European Union should be of benefit to the citizen. I think we all agree on this, in other words, that everything we do, whether you identify as a supporter or an opponent of the European Union, we do so because we basically want to do good. After all, nobody goes to work as a politician in the morning and says: Now I hope I can get a lot of bad work done. That is why I wonder a little bit about the little sticking pill that the Secretary of State gave me, I think, in relation to the Brexit mandate. Because if we cannot support the government's approach to Brexit, it is not, as my own speech well illustrated, because we do not think there are perspectives in it. No, it's simply because we think the government's approach to it is too pointless. I would therefore like to ask again, and that is in relation to the agreement that the British rejected, but which I think very many citizens in Denmark and in many other EU countries would dream of and would like to have: why is it that the government will not work to get it back on the table? Especially because it might make the European Union just a little less unpopular in the quite broad circles where the atmosphere prevails.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130408	I am sorry that the Danish People's Party is not behind the negotiating mandate in negotiating a proper solution with Britain. For what has been proposed by the European Union is the most far-reaching free trade agreement ever offered to a third country: no customs duties, no quotas, free trade, no bureaucracy; let us get it going. I think that is extremely perspectiveful. And so it must be done on fair conditions of competition for employees and so on. That's fair, too. So I don't understand why the Danish People's Party doesn't support this. Well, you could ask what this means. If you look at the numbers, I think it's 47 percent. of UK exports to the internal market and 53 per cent. of imports. They are, of course, deeply integrated into the European economy, and that is why the British should have a huge interest in getting as close to the internal market and being as unbureaucratic in terms of trade as possible. So that's the perspective. I have heard that there will be friction in a new trade agreement, from the British side. I am sorry about that, because the more bureaucracy you create, the more difficult you make it, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which there are a lot of in Denmark with Danish jobs that can pay for this. And there we had just hoped that the Danish People's Party supported the government's desire for an ambitious trade agreement with the British.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130531	That's not what we're worried about. Furthermore, we believe that, in the long run, the European Union's interest in an agreement with Britain is probably even greater than the other way around, because Britain has so many other countries around the world to which they have good relations. No, when we are not happy with the mandate that the government has asked for and has been given, it is because it has not chosen to fight for all the good things that, after all, were offered back to the British in 2016, and to which they turned down, that is, Cameron's agreement: that the national parliaments should play a greater role, that we had to index social benefits and the sort of things that are paid out to people in other countries. So the government won't offer it to the Danes. That is what we do not like, and I still do not understand why the government has that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130624-2	So it is true that we had then hoped that the British would stay with the Danes and the Swedes and all the others; stay to create better rules in areas where we agree, for example. an indexing of child benefit. That is something we agree on. However, it is a pity that they then go out of cooperation in relation to it, so I wish there they had stayed with us and worked together in the European Union for it. Because fair and reasonable is an important value in our approach to this cooperation. And it has to be, for example. in access to Danish welfare benefits, be right and reasonable in it. We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130703	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130704	Thank you. I shall deal only with one thing: the climate. Last time a mandate was sought for an MFF, we also had a social democratic government. And in the field of agriculture, we actually gave a mandate from the Enhedslisten we supported. And the reason we supported was because there were a lot of nice words about green development and climate and environment etc. And at that time the Minister gave us the impression that this would become a reality. And now we are in a situation where climate emissions from agriculture in Europe have gone in the wrong direction. It is not even a matter of the fact that it is not limited enough; it has gone in the very wrong direction. Can't the Foreign Minister just spend one minute convincing me and telling me why we should believe those nice words this time, when it's mainly nice words that say there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130809-2	I think I only have a 1⁄2 minute, or no, I have 1 minute that's right. I'd like to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that one is the budget framework and the objectives I said before. In terms of content, I think the question is how to ensure that it is really climate measures that are then given. I mean, if you say it has to be over 25%. in the EU budget, how can we see that this is really something that goes to climate action? If we are to implement agricultural policies, it is also important that it is really something that supports the conversion to sustainable agriculture in Europe. And it's a political battle. So now we are setting the framework, in other words a multiannual budget; the seven-year budget is a framework for the budgets. But the political struggle does not stop with the fact that we have made a seven-year budget. What I think, sir. Søren Søndergaard can also look after the last 7 years, is that the subsequent struggle, in terms of how to implement the budget and really do it, is just as important as setting a framework for the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130904	Well, you can't raise those frames along the way. Well, they're there. And that is a framework, for example. It is about how far we have to go, and they cannot be changed. Once it has been adopted, we cannot go in and say that one country or another must do something that is not within that framework. And that's the problem. That is why we had emphasized the need for decisive emphasis to be placed on something considerably more that would provide a guarantee that we could move towards it. So I'm sorry, but the Minister's answer doesn't convince me. And I'm really afraid of where we're gonna be in seven years when we meet again. That is why we were unable to support the mandate at this time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227130947-2	What is important for the government here in Denmark is, of course, as I mentioned, to ensure that we have as ambitious a climate budget as possible and that it is real. And we will fight for that. Then there are the specific policies. I mentioned regulation before, that is to say it is quite crucial. After all, the agricultural sector is a sector in which we have not really tackled climate change. It is quite crucial that the regulation of climate change in the agricultural sector becomes real. And that is what we need to work for; we do that at home, and we want to do that in common within the European Union. We have a high ambition in this area, including our own 70-percent target in 2030 in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131025	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131027	I can assure the Foreign Minister that I love the Danish model and fight for it. And if he is in doubt, he can ask some of those with whom social democracy is customary, namely 3F. I think they will confirm that if anyone has fought against wage dumping, not least in the transport sector, in the European Parliament, then I myself said the dog. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is saying all the right things from the platform, which is why it is a little disappointing when you look at the policy being pursued. All the things mentioned by the Minister should, of course, encourage some more commitment and enthusiasm, rather than those who talk all the time, as we see in particular from the Prime Minister and also now from the Secretary of Defense. And that is the subject of my question, because I cannot quite find out whether the government is in favour of abolishing the Danish defence reserve. I don't want the Minister out in discussions about dates. I think that's untimely now. But when I hear the Minister for Defence talking about the defence reserve, not least on the conciliation the other day, as a defence reserve supporter, have I misunderstood something if I thought that the Prime Minister had expressed a positive opinion on lifting the reservation when the time is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131155	So, the reservations are the basis of this government's European policy. And there's got to be some pretty powerful reasons to change that relationship. It takes what Mr. Jens Rohde also says that people are asked in a referendum, in other words, if they are to have changed the reservations. And there's nothing I can see on the short track in relation to the defence reservation that makes us there. And the DIIS investigation, which we also debated earlier, also confirms that the reservations naturally have consequences, but it is not the case that Denmark cannot be active, even in the field of defence, foreign and security policy. On the contrary, we are really active on the Danish side. That does not mean, I would like to stress, that we should not have the debate on it. I think it is very important to take the debate. There are some exciting things going on. I mentioned the defence fund myself, and a new Directorate-General has been set up in the Commission, and that is something where Denmark can participate in that cooperation, because it is not covered by the reservation. So we must also use our energies to see where we can make a difference in relation to our defence and security policy, where we also want the European Union to play a more central and strong role together with NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131301-2	Well, it's just a contradiction, and that's because the minister always chooses that national premise. In other words, what makes Europe strong will also make Denmark strong on the foreign policy stage. And the truth is, we're not strong. Everything that happened around Ukraine shows Europe's powerlessness. In other words, when territorial interests are involved, our competition for integration processes is playing bankrupt in relation to the currents of power that otherwise come with it. In fact, Europe has a role to play in relation to China... now the minister also spoke values. I think we have some challenges that we have not been able to uncover yet, and perhaps we should spend a little separate time at some point. And that is why it is so important when we speak values that we have a common European defence and security policy, and Denmark must join it if Europe is to be strong. Can't the Minister see the rationale in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131402	But Denmark is fully involved in our common foreign policy. Former so-called "Donetsk People's Republic', former so-called "Lugansk People's Republic'. I couldn't do that this time, because that city is controlled by Russian-supported rebels, some militant groups. This is an example of Russia intervening in a free European country in a way that is totally unacceptable, of course. And since 2014, more than 12,000 people have been killed and over 1 million people have been fleeing in a country in Europe... a country in Europe... because Russia has been acting aggressively. That's where we're gonna stand together. I think I'm very much in agreement with Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde on the point that we in the European Union must stand together and protect our values and interests in a world where some people are actually challenging them, among other things. Russia, which we see in particular in Ukraine to this day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131450	Thank you, Minister. Then we'll go to the second round, and there's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt reported as a speaker. I would remind you that there are five minutes' speaking time for the rapporteurs, and if anyone else wants to speak, press the green button, then we should try to look at it. Here you go, sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227131509	Thank you, President. What makes me speak in the second round is that I had no opportunity but to hear Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde's speech earlier, which is to be praised and praised. Jens Rohde then has been strictly linked to what he has just said to the Foreign Minister, namely that what is good for Europe is good for Denmark, i.e. such a mechanical hyperrationalist mindless understanding of what Denmark is. And, of course, that calls for a response, because it is true that things are connected with a view of culture, which is certainly not Danish. The question then is whether, as Mr. Jens Rohde probably wants to defend is German. Because as I heard Mr. Jens Rohde's speech earlier, he confesses to such a German in many contexts, both legally, spiritually and linguisticly, I have also heard in the European Parliament. But the question is just which Germany is actually dealing with in Mr. Jens Rohde's perception of himself and society. Because I can hear a lot of Hegel, and I can hear a lot of Kant, i.e. a lot of German idealism about the good, the rational, the well planned and it is also the materialistic thing that we mentioned before but is it Germany alone? Is it really only the small part that German philosophers have contributed to our modern understanding of history and idea-historical self-understanding? I would argue against that. In this way, I think that Mr. Jens Rohde is going to walk a lot on one very rationalist leg. Where is Karl Barth and the entire ecclesiastical understanding, the Christian understanding of human life, belonging, not only in rights that we heard from Hegel, Kant, Rousseau and Chateaubriand etc. Jens Rohde wallows in the • but also in duty towards the existing, not necessarily only in dedication to it thought, but also in dedication to it felt and the living? Where are we to take a more modern thinker, Peter Sloterdijk, who published the criticism of cynical reason a few years ago as a direct assassination of the idea of enlightenment emanating from Germany? It is precisely in Germany that we may have to be a little too rational. That is also why I took the liberty of making a small reservation earlier when Mr. Jens Rohde wanted to make me and Oswald Spengler one. Because it is true that Oswald Spengler, like the time with Thomas Mann, etc. cultivates a tale of destruction, one that Mr. Jens Rohde says so, culturally pessimistic view, but what it is all about is that Europeans in the run-up to World War I and Germans have fundamentally forgotten what it means to be European, accentuated by the total collapse of World War II, have forgotten the entire Christian heritage; it has been disposed of on the altar of rationalism. You can almost imagine Mr. Jens Rohde stood as the revolutionaries in 1789 down at the Notre Dame Church in Paris and raised up a harlot like the new goddess on the altar instead of Christ. Where is the nation? Where is the Westfalse tradition? Where is the love of language, literature, history, nature, everything that preceded Mr. Jens Rohde's harder? It's gone. But fortunately there is hope, including in the Germans. It is not long ago that a book, Höllensturz und Hoffnung, was published, where the German economist Hans-Joachim Hahn and the lawyer Lutz Simon carry on with Oswald Spengler's tradition and say clearly what it is that is anti-European, which is non-European, and that is precisely the cultural relativism which Mr. Jens Rohde on his rationalist horse marches in the direction of the fact that there is no value in the national, the fact that the concrete does not have a spiritual dimension, but that it alone has a physical dimension. Because that's what happens when Mr. Jens Rohde says that what's good for Europe is good for Denmark, because it's about getting your stomach drunk. But I just need to remind you, sir. Jens Rohde says that there is something a little above the stomach, and it is the heart, and it is the heart that controls man much stronger than both the stomach and reason. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132025	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. We shall proceed with the second round and the rapporteur on the Radical Left, Mr President. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132037	Yeah, well, that calls for an answer, given that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt stands and gives the great instruction in German literature. So let me just grab the biedermeier culture. It's funny. I think about the biedermeier culture every time I hear Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. And it wasn't a praise. It was such an ironic comment on the cozy, the homey and the safe, and then we're just sitting here. In Germany there were probably no red and white tablecloths, but then you could sit down on Gasthaus and enjoy yourself there and let the world pass by outside. That's what that culture reflected. And that's just not the way the world is. When Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is now so crazy about Oswald Spengler and the view of culture that he drove forward, and which the whole of the German right is so in love with in these years. In fact, as I mentioned before, there was Untergang des Abendlandes, which appeared in two volumes from 1918 to 1922. I would say that we have a Spengler, who has just taken hold, I recognize that, in the spiritual, i.e. culture, the Christian and sets it up in contrast to what I said before, that is, the British individual view of competition and the French likeness, as he called it. What is then only interesting is that the whole philosophy he built up in his books and tried to incite in Germany was exactly the philosophy that the first German Chancellor after World War II, Konrad Adenauer, built his European outlook on the whole! That is quite simply correct, and I have even sent Mr Konrad Adenauer a quote. Morten Messerschmidt on text so that he can see for himself that for Konrad Adenauer it was a prerequisite for the survival of Christian Abendland that a European unity, a federation, was created. That's how he saw it, and he wasn't the kind of guy from the green, relativist or liberalist he was CDUs! And in the CDU C stands for christlich, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt well. And that's why it's not connected. That's nonsense, sir. Morten Messerschmidt stands and says here from Parliament's platform, because there is a strict line from Oswald Spengler to the Europe and European culture vision that Konrad Adenauer advocated when he spoke about the unification of Europe and, of course, just said: Die Einheit Europas war eine Idee der Wenigen. Sie wurde eine Hoffnung für viele, und sie ist heute eine Notwendigkeit für alle. These words, no matter what culture you want to be associated with, are exactly as valid today as they were then in 1954, when Konrad Adenauer said it on top of two world wars and with Oswald Spengler's view of life and culture in the back. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132434	There is a brief comment, and I would appeal that if you use another language a Danish, you should, as a rule, try to translate it so that everyone can join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132445	I'm sorry. Can I make the translation quite briefly? That fg. President Yes). It just means that the idea of a united Europe was an idea born of the few, it became a hope for the many, and it is today a necessity for all of us. I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132501	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132503	Yeah, but that's what Mr. Jens Rohde overlooks the fact that Adenauer is talking about the whole of Christian Europe. It is clear that Germany must have a different historical starting point from what we are doing in Denmark. Where the contrast between Spengler, which I therefore do not emphasize one by one agrees with everything, and Adenauer arises, is where Spengler still sees himself as national. His thinking is still tied to a national identity, a national language, a national culture, whereas all German chancellors after World War II have seen the national as evil.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132545	But that is simply not true, because Konrad Adenauer makes a lot of sense in practically all his speeches in emphasising that he is German and that he is Chancellor of Germany and that the CDU is a German Christian party. But he is also a European. What he's doing up to is the false contrast that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also grows between being national and being European.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132618	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132619	And that is where we return to Hegel and Kant, for that is exactly where man alone is considered to be an intelligent being who, by the power of thought, can rise above the given, above the handed down, above the spiritual and above he felt. That is where Adenauer, Hegel, Kant and the whole of the enlightenment philosophy on which Brandes and radicalism are based betray not only the nation state but the very thing to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132645	And without these people, Europe would not have existed as a common, well-knit cooperation, and then we would not have had the world record in peace that we have, after all, every day in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132657	I thank you for the very committed dialogue. I know that at some point I should have asked the other two rapporteurs whether we should stay a little closer to the Minister's statement, but since I think it has a lot to do with the subject, I put the debate at risk. Is there anyone else who wants to speak in the second round? Would the Minister like to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132737	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 March. I understand that the rapporteur for the questioners is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, and I would ask him to explain the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132828	Yes, I shall read out a proposal for adoption. The rapporteur shall state the reasons for the proposal.' Well, okay, I actually didn't think that was me. I thought this was what I was supposed to take. It is Wednesday's questions that are being read out. If you have a question debate, you only justify the question). That's what I'm thinking, sir. Søren Søndergaard must, isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132914	First, there is the possibility of justifying the question and then, during the debate, there is the possibility of putting forward a proposal for adoption. That's the order. So if anyone can justify why the question has been raised, you are welcome to do so, otherwise we will go directly to the Minister. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227132933	I can at least do that as rapporteur for the questioners. We in the Committee on European Affairs have had a discussion on the conference on the future of Europe that we have discussed in the past. In this connection, we have written a letter from a single European Committee which we have sent to those who are involved in it in the European Union, which, like us, stresses the need to do something about the openness of the European Union's decision-making process and to do something to strengthen the influence of national parliaments on the European Union's decision-making process. We have formulated this in six specific points. What is the reason for the proposal is that we would like to see the six specific points officially adopted here in the Folketing, so that it is, as it were, Parliament's official policy. That is why we have raised this question. Lars Aslan Rasmussen now read out in a moment a proposal for adoption which exactly expresses that purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133043	I'm just trying to get the process straight. What is happening now is that the Minister is given the opportunity to reply, and afterwards there is the opportunity for all the rapporteurs to speak, including the tabling of proposals for adoption. So that's the minister first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133105	Thank you, President. Thank you for the question about the conference on the future of Europe. After all, this is a very topical issue which I have been looking forward to coming and discussing with the Danish Parliament. The conference will last two years. This is a matter on which we are all very committed. This applies both to the government and to the Folketing, which, in line with the other national parliaments, is at the heart of the democratic anchoring of European policy. That is why I have also worked to ensure a strong role for the national parliaments in the conference, and I will just come back to that. I would like to start by saying a few words about the current status of the conference. We are still at the initial stage where the institutions of the European Union must set the framework for the conference. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution, the Commission has published a communication and the Council is in the process of defining its position. Then the three institutions will have to agree on the framework together before we start the conference itself, and that is probably 9 May this year. In the government, we have a clear position on the conference that we are working for. We're going after three point marks. We want an open, efficient and democratically anchored European Union to deliver tangible results for citizens. We want an open European Union because citizens and the public should know what is happening in the European Union, what decisions are at stake and how they can influence the democratic process, which I also mentioned earlier in the debate on the statement. We want an effective European Union because, ultimately, EU cooperation is about delivering results, about solving the challenges facing citizens. And we want a democratic European Union because the decisions taken in the European Union concern us all. There is no such thing in the EU. We ourselves are part of European cooperation. That is why we must have the opportunity to play a part in the decision-making process. It also requires a strong role for national parliaments. The conference is an excellent opportunity to work for those objectives by involving citizens and national parliaments in a broad debate on the European Union, a debate on both the challenges we face and where we want to go. It is the government's view that if we want to make a difference and produce results through such a debate, then the conference must also deal with political content such as the climate that we have also debated in the past, migration, the fight against tax avoidance, the cessation of social dumping and the defence of our fundamental values, the rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression. If we want to achieve the objective of a more open, effective and democratically anchored European Union, we must have, at the heart of the matter, an ambition to improve the way in which the European Union works. This applies, for example, to how we increase the transparency of legislative work, how we strengthen the role of national parliaments. Moreover, it is an obvious discussion when we have both citizens and national parliaments directly at the conference table. In other words, the government has very clear objectives on what the conference should be about, but we also have clear positions on what the conference should not be careful not to get lost in implied institutional discussions. Citizens really demand content, not institutional umbilicalism. We should preferably avoid going into the time-consuming Treaty changes that can draw attention to important issues. The government believes that we stand best by excluding the very possibility of Treaty changes in advance. The experience of the 00s shows that discussions on Treaty changes and institutions and reforms on that front are draining all political attention and energy away from the things that really matter to citizens, and it is the citizens that we must focus on. It is my clear view that the time has not come for discussion of changes to the Treaty. There is ample opportunity to move forward on major political issues, including within the existing Treaty and institutional framework. If it were to come to Treaty changes, we would then have to assess what Danish interests and priorities should be, but, as I have said, it is too early because these matters have not yet been settled. I would like to come back to the question of the role of national parliaments. For the government, it is important that the national parliaments have the opportunity to play an independent and strong role in the conference. This is important both in order to strengthen democratic anchoring, but also in order to help shift discussions in a direction that really matters to people in everyday life. That is why, in the discussions on the framework of the conference, the government has also fought hard to ensure a central role for the national parliaments. I am aware of the European Parliament's letters to the President of the Commission and the working party in Parliament. It is good that the committee is involved in the conference and provides input on the involvement of national parliaments, but I also look forward to an ongoing debate on many other important issues surrounding the conference. The government's active efforts to ensure a real role for national parliaments have borne fruit. It looks as if we are getting clear indications into the Council's position on a strong and equal role for national parliaments. And if the European Parliament and the Commission agree to this, it will provide a good opportunity for the Folketing itself to pass on their wishes and proposals. At the same time, it is clear that the government shares that direction and places emphasis on many of the themes on which the European Committee has chosen to focus. There are several very good proposals that we will continue to work on. In addition to the strengthening of the role of national parliaments, I would particularly like to highlight the desire for a stronger focus on the fundamental values of the European Union and greater openness in the legislative work in the European Union, and it seems that we are succeeding in ensuring that the Council will work to ensure that both the rule of law and transparency become issues for the conference. We in Denmark have been very active in the negotiations in the Council on the framework of the conference. We must also do so when it comes to the outcome of the conference. We want a policy on all shelves and therefore help to bring together a large majority of countries that want to focus on political content rather than endless discussions on treaty changes. The Government intends to remain active during the conference. We will continue our ambitious approach, focusing on the political content and on our cross-cutting pointers: an open, effective and democratically anchored European Union. We will therefore pay close attention to citizen involvement, for example. through citizens' consultations in Denmark, where we will address major issues such as climate policy and the rule of law. Transparency is another important matter for the government. As I mentioned in the debate on the report earlier today, I would like to take the lead in a coalition that wants to promote openness in the European Union. I hope that the Folketing and other national parliaments will support this approach. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133753	You're welcome. And I assume that the mumbling that was among the rapporteurs was to clarify the procedure in the further case. I could see that disturbed the Minister a little in his presentation. One short remark is available per year. The rapporteur in this round, and the first person who has asked for a brief comment, is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133814	Thank you. I shall not go into any debate, but just thank the Minister for his speech and also for the very concrete content of it. A proposal for adoption will shortly be read out, and I would just like to point out that the letters and the active position taken by the committee will then be a resolution for the Folketing, which I assume we are working together for side by side, government and parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133841	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133844	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to the debate. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, and I understand that is what he said. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133900	Thank you, President. Then I will read out the proposal for adoption and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Alternative and New Citizens' Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament welcomes the Commission's initiative for a conference on the future of the European Union and believes that it is important that Denmark seeks maximum influence on the content and outcome of the conference. Parliament pays particular attention to the role of national parliaments as well as greater transparency in the EU legislative process. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to work actively on the points mentioned in the European Committee's letter to the Commission of 20 December 2019, •Conference on the Future of Europe • Proposals on how to involve national parliaments, cf. EUU, alm. Part 1 of Annex 272. V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20200227133951	Thank you so much. This will be part of the further debate. Does anyone wish to speak for the debate? There isn't. Does the Foreign Minister wish to make a final comment? He doesn't. That concludes the debate. And I would remind you that the vote on the proposed adoption will not take place until Tuesday 10 March 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200227134019	There is no more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for the great effort in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 28 February 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
