ParlaMint-DK_20200612100018	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612100036	The debate is open. We'll start with the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612100057	I'm sorry, I just got caught up in something else, but now I'm totally on it. Thank you to the Socialist People's Party for tabling a motion for a resolution to give children of inmates a better framework for visits to be dealt with today by the Folketing. It is important that children of inmates have a good framework for visiting a parent who is in prison, and there are several reasons for this. One is that it is not the children we want to punish. You can imagine what it must be like to be a child and have a parent who is in prison and how it can affect you. This applies to the contact that is gone, missing, the incomprehensible • all those photos that may be in a child's head of how it can be to be in prison and the experience of shame to the comrades who ask: Where is your father? 'Cause it's typical of the fathers it's all about. Well, that's all that. So, of course, we must try to give these children a world that is as normal as possible, since it is the parents who have done what they certainly should not, and therefore receive the punishment that society has calculated. Then it is also important in relation to the rehabilitation measures, because just as it hurts the child, it is not difficult to imagine how you as a parent would feel if your contact with your child was a string of deprivation and fleeting contacts. Those we put in prison must, of course, come out on the other side and be able to function in our society again. It's in everyone's interest. It is in the interests of the individual, it is in the interests of society and, of course, it is also in the interests of the family. That is why it is right when SF says that this is where we need to consider; that we need to consider the conditions and framework of contact between children and inmates on an ongoing basis and whether they are good enough. Of course, the opportunities for visits play a key role in this regard. That is why I am also in favour of the proposal to set up a working group to examine the framework for contact between children and their inmates and how they can be strengthened. A long way along the way, I also agree with the points raised by the proposers and which could be discussed in the working group. There are probably several other issues and ideas that could also be considered, and I do not see the proposal as being that it is the stone of the display that has been carried down and that there is nothing more to say or do about it. These are some of the elements that can be brought into play. In fact, I think it would be sensible to make some comments on the elements mentioned in the motion for a resolution. These are, of course, only general considerations, because what we have to decide on today is not the content of the elements, but whether a working group should be set up to look at them. The first element is a review of the regulation on the children of prisoners. Today, the rules for visiting inmates grant the right to visit at least once a week. In relation to related children, the possibility of more visits should be considered and, as far as possible, accommodated. The exit rules, when certain conditions are met, provide different possibilities for an inmate's parent to maintain contact with his child. First of all, inmates may have the opportunity to visit close relatives at important family events. It can, for example, be done. be associated with infant baptism or the first day of school of your own child. Secondly, there is the possibility of getting access to children. Thirdly, inmates may be transferred to one of the pensions of criminal services if the interests of minors are in favour of it. In addition, there is the possibility that inmates may be posted to their own home with an ankle bracelet for up to 6 months of atonement. This applies, among other things, if the inmate's family relationship speaks for it. In addition, all prisons and detention houses in the criminal services have a scheme with children's officers, such as: aims to support inmate parents in maintaining and strengthening contact with their children during deployment. So there are a number of rules and measures that focus on the relationship between the inmates and their children, but that does not change the fact that there can be room for improvement. On the whole, I think it is an exciting idea that the rules may be better designed on the basis of the child's perspective. In any case, it is worth examining whether this is possible. The second element is that inmates should have the right to video conversations with their children, for example. via Skype. It is a system which has been tried in some of the institutions of the criminal services as one of the compensatory measures in connection with the covid-19 crisis. I think it is natural to take as a starting point the experience of criminal justice in recent times. In addition, there may be interesting experiences from abroad that we may be able to benefit from. I know that the Department of Justice has pointed out that in some contexts the system may cause security problems, and in some institutions it will be the case that if you do so, it will require a disproportionately large number of staff resources. I'm not saying that to say that we shouldn't do it. I am just saying this to point out some of the elements that will have to be included in the considerations that we will have to make, especially in a situation where we know very well that the staff resources of the criminal services are stretched to the extreme, aren't they? But let's examine the pros and cons of making video calls. The third element is that it is the inmate's parent and not the child who should be moved during visits. Inmates shall be placed as close as possible to their place of residence as possible. There is also a transport aid scheme designed to cover the transport costs of children's visits in order to prevent children of inmates from being limited in their association and contact with an inmate for economic reasons. In the opinion of the criminal services, a system whereby the inmates are moved after the children will give rise to practical and resourceful challenges, including in relation to manning and safety. But let's get it properly lit up and see what the possibilities are. The fourth element is about interventions in relation to large children. I have already mentioned that some of the arrangements set up in the field of criminal justice to support contact with children are, of course, also applicable in relation to large children. However, I will certainly not rule out further initiatives to support the relationship between the inmates and their older children. The last and fifth elements are about helping to tackle the comrades. This is probably primarily a task which does not belong to my area of responsibility, but to the social and municipal areas and therefore under the authority of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. So I shall not dwell on that here. A working group will take the initiative to involve the relevant authorities as necessary. As I said at the outset, I agree that there must be good conditions and a framework to support the relationship between children and their inmates. The Government supports the proposal to set up a working group to examine whether further action can be taken to improve the framework for children to visit their inmates. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612100918	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612100922	I would like to thank the Minister for a very welcoming speech. I think it is incredibly positive and it is really important for those children, so thank you very much for that. The SAVN association, which is working with this group of children, has pointed out that we in Denmark may be more concerned about caring for children than we are concerned about giving them rights. Does the Minister think that it might be a good idea for a working group to have rights for children, so that children have some rights for contact and visits etc., so that they look at it from a child's perspective and give them some rights? What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101007	Without going to be accused of ignoring or answering for fluffy, I think that's one of the things that needs to be looked at. The fascinating thing about giving some rights is that then the children know what they have to comply with. What I cannot see on a stand-by basis and why I am replying like this is that there may be antiquated considerations in which we have to say, so to speak, that in some situations rights cannot be maintained and what is worth a right if it cannot be maintained. But the idea of saying that when you are a child and one of your parents is in prison, you must have secured some kind of contact, I think as a starting point is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101054	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101055	What SAVN is saying is that if only we had incorporated the Children's Convention, the view of this would have been different. There the Minister's party and my party have a slight disagreement, one might say, because we would like to go further and have implemented the children's convention everywhere in Danish law. I would just like to conclude with one final question, namely whether the minister in the working group he will then set up will involve the SAVN association and possibly also some of the family networks that exist on the social media? Because they have a gold mine of knowledge of what this looks like from a child's perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101136	Well, the knowledge that lies out with different stakeholders and organisations, of course, we must have and involve in the work that is, because it is not only in their interest, but also very much in our interest that the work that comes out is as solidly placed in the reality that is experienced as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101156	Thank you, Minister. Then we start the rapporteur's round, and first it's Mr. Knox. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101212	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for having tabled this motion for a resolution. Children are not to be punished for their parents'crimes, but they will be. It is a life-changing event for children of all ages when their parents go to prison. I'm the father of two girls four and six years old, and sometimes we play in prison and robbers and cops at home. We can have some fun with that, but for the children who experience a parent being removed from home and going to prison, the game stops, and then it gets really serious. You don't have to be an expert or a professor or have many experiences with it to figure out that it is a hard experience for all children who are put in that situation. No matter how much we want it, it's probably hard to remove the grief, the deprivation, the pain for the children affected. It is clear that, as a Parliament, as a government, as responsible politicians, we have a responsibility for these children, a responsibility which their parents have not lifted sufficiently, unfortunately. Very good work is already being done around both prisons and detention houses etc. to shoulder that responsibility to the children. When you go around and visit them, there are many employees and also many inmates who actually make an extra effort to ensure that the experience of the association between children and their parents is as good as possible. But I must also say, having been around visiting some of the institutions we have around the country, that there is room for improvement, both in relation to the physical framework and in relation to the content. The Minister has gone through some of the options and measures that are available and has also commented on the specific elements of the resolution, so I will refrain from doing so. However, I would just like to join with those who think it is good that we have a working group that can look at this carefully and include all relevant experiences and views, so that we have a basis for further discussion, and that is why the Social Democratic Group supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101447	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101508	In the Left, we believe that when a criminal offence is committed, the guilty person must be punished. However, when the guilty person is punished, it is important to pay attention to the children's need for a parent, because if the child's need for a relationship with its parents is not met, society ends up with another victim, the child in question. Therefore, it is so important that we focus on children of inmates so that we can ensure them a good upbringing despite the very difficult circumstances under which they must grow up. In the Department of Criminal Services, attention is paid to the children. In all prisons, child-responsible people have to ensure that children have the opportunity to visit their parents. In the closed prisons there are visiting apartments with accommodation for the young children, just as there are several places where you can get help and support as a child in your situation, both inside and outside the criminal services. But no matter what, there are many problems in growing up in a family where a parent is incarcerated. As a society, we must do what we can to ensure that children of inmates have the best opportunities. We in the Left are also in favour of examining whether we can do more. That is why we support the SF's proposal to set up a working group to examine and make recommendations and suggestions for improving children's opportunities and children's rights. The proposal lays down, inter alia: The working group will involve the older children and their focus, and it will also be necessary to examine the possibility of using video conversations more continuously, for example. via Facetime or Skype. During the Corona crisis, the Department of Justice has learned exactly that and they can draw on it in the context of further work. After all, in the context of the crisis, we have all found new ways of meeting, and here the virtual has played a role. These are experiences that we need to see if we can transfer to this area if it can help make it easier for the children. There should be no doubt that we in the Left think that we should have a great focus on the best interests of the child. That focus also applies, of course, when it comes to the conditions of children of inmates. So thank you to the SF for speeding up this work, we fully back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101742	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. And that is why it is now Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612101755	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the SF for putting forward this resolution, which is, of course, about requiring the government to set up a working group in 2020 to make recommendations and suggestions to improve the conditions and framework for children to visit parents in prison. And according to the motion for a resolution, the working group will publish its work by 2021 and will look in particular at the following five proposals: review of legislation, guidelines, circulars and guides that concern the children of prisoners; right to video conversations via Skype and Facetime; move the parent, not the child; bets with large children; help to tackle comrades. There should be no doubt that the best interests of the child are important, nor should there be any doubt that it is the child that should be at the centre. But in relation to this, it is also important to think about who should assess it; who should assess what the child's best interests are? Because as a starting point, the child is entitled to his mother and father, but is it always the child's best interest to visit his mother or father in prison? No, it's not safe. And it will also be an individual assessment in relation to the matter, to the needs of the child, to the wishes of the child and also to the circumstances. What if the child doesn't want to visit the prison, it has to be forced? There is no doubt that it has far-reaching consequences when mother or father goes to prison, both because the child loses contact with parents in everyday life, but also because imprisonment can have a bearing on the whole family, and this can, for example, happen. be less economical, harder family life, more secrets, teasing at school and the risk that the child himself will end up in violence or crime. In addition, children of prisoners often have parents with few resources, for example. in the form of a lack of education, or it may also be psychiatric problems. And that is why it can be difficult to clearly conclude whether it is the imprisonment itself or other factors in the family's background that affect children's lives, and it was also some of what the report from the former SFI, now VIVE, showed I think it was in 2015 that it came out. But it's really nice to get this area elucidated, and in the Danish People's Party we'd like to help look at how we can improve this. And it would be good to have a working group set up to look at several issues which must be seen with the child's eyes and based on the child's best interests, also in relation to the child's wishes and needs. So in the Danish People's Party, as I said, there is support for us to have a look at this area, and I would like to thank the SF for putting forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102123	Thank you, President. If parents are well educated, there is a great chance that their children will also get an education. If parents are recipients of cash benefits, there is a greater chance that their children will also benefit from cash benefits. And if one of the parents is in prison, there's a better chance that one of their kids will go to jail one day. For the future of children, too much is determined by the background of their parents. Unfortunately, this also applies to children of inmates. Fathers' imprisonment is of short and long-term importance to their children. It means something to the attachment, it means something to having as a child a role model in which one can mirror oneself, and it means something in relation to growing up under less middle conditions. Children are being teased and bullied at school for having a criminal father. It's a negative spiral. For having a father close to him in his childhood knows many may have played a major role. That is why we must put in place a better future for children with criminal parents, give them back the dreams and opportunities. And to whom can that really be a disadvantage? There is, of course, a great opportunity here that the party with the Prime Minister of the children can really mark itself. So let us learn from among others. Norway, which has better rights for inmates compared to their children. The Radical Left is clear and supports the resolution, because one thing is certain: it is not the children who have done something wrong, it is their parents, but if we do not do more for the children, we are actually punishing them too, and that is unbearable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102324	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments, which is why we now move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102343	First of all, thank you to the SF for presenting this extremely important resolution, which we wholeheartedly support in the Enhedslisten. After all, we were four parties who wrote the understanding paper together a year ago, and there we set ourselves a very ambitious goal when we established that Denmark must be the world's best country to be a child in. And this motion for a resolution is a very good idea of how we fulfil the very fine ambition we put ourselves on the understanding paper. With this proposal, we are doing something very concrete for a group of children who are all too often overlooked in the debate, namely children of prisoners. SF has some very good suggestions for improvement. The rules must be based more on the needs of children than on the needs of adults. In general, I think that is one thing we forget when we make legislation in Denmark that is very, very rare from the perspective of children. If we are to create a country in which it is to be the best country to be a child, we also need to have a child's perspective when we make legislation, and, of course, also when it comes to the children of the inmates, we also need to look at the children's perspective more than the adults' perspective. SF suggests that, like in Norway and Finland, contact between children and their inmates should be opened up via Skype and Facetime. I think that's a really good idea. We have also tried to try a little hard with that now, where there have been some other visits, or one might say lack of it, in the Danish prisons. The previous gang packages that were made have, what can be said, shut down a lot of the digital communication, which would actually benefit these children a lot, and therefore it is very sensible what SF is proposing here. The aim of the whole thing is, of course, to ensure better child life, as I said before, but it is also to prevent the adult either father's or mother's relapse to crime after release. For of course, good and continuous contact between parents and children has a bearing on the risk of relapse to crime. So I want to say that we solve a lot of problems with this proposal... we give both children better chances, but we also give parents better chances and stronger rehabilitation with this proposal. So we can fully support that in the Enhedslisten. So I just want to say thank you to the SF for putting forward the proposal and we would like to contribute to a joint report, but if the SF chooses to send the proposal to the vote, we will also support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102646	Thank you, Mrs Lund, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Lund. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102657	Thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution. This is an important debate, we think. In the Conservative People's Party, we want to ensure the best possible conditions for children, regardless of who their parents are. That is why, as a starting point, we welcome the idea of a working group, as we would like to improve the situation of children with parents in prison if we can. The best interests of the children weigh heavily for us, and that is why it is good that we clarify the situation. However, we also have some reservations in connection with the motion for a resolution. We believe that there is a lack of funding for the proposal, because if inmates are to be transported to visit children close to their children's homes, it will cost money. But there is nothing in the proposal about how much the cost is and how it should be done properly. It is also important to clarify. In addition, we are sceptical about the idea that even hard-boiled criminals must be able to use Skype from prison to contact their children. In the comments to the proposal, SF writes: In both Norway and Finland children can skype with their parents. In Finland, this even applies to high-risk prisoners. However, should high-risk inmates be given the opportunity to skype with their children? I could be worried about that, even for the sake of the children. So, as I mentioned earlier, we support the motion for a resolution, but with these reservations, and we support the setting up of a working group to examine the conditions of visits and to make it better for children in general. We support the working group unreservedly, but with regard to the motion for a resolution there is the issue of funding and high-risk prisoners, where we have some reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102902	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments, and that is why we now move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612102923	Danish children of inmates in Danish prisons should not pay the price for their parents' crimes. It would be unfair to the children, and it would also be harmful to Danish society, which the Danish children must grow up in and hopefully will be a positive part of. That is why we support the SF's proposal for a working group to make recommendations and suggestions to improve conditions for children of inmates in Danish prisons. As others have said, we also have some basic views on what should then be seen in that working group, but I think we can take that when we get there. At first it's good and it's important and it's relevant to focus on this. We thank the SF for presenting the motion for a resolution and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103016	Thank you. And we're hurrying on to sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103022	Thank you. From the Liberal Alliance's point of view, we also support the motion for a resolution and, in particular, the intentions behind it, namely that having inmates is not something in themselves, the children must be punished for anything other than that they are obviously deprived of time from their parents, which is, of course, a punishment in themselves. And that is why we think that this part of a working party's review of legislation, guidelines, circulars, notices, etc., which concerns the children of prisoners is particularly relevant. It is therefore relevant to know whether there are some rules and guidelines that are currently in the way of good things or whether there may be a lack of initiatives in individual areas. I must also admit, just to be honest, that when I first read the motion for a resolution, I was actually a little sceptical, because I thought: is it Parliament's job to regulate access to video conversations via Skype for prisoners? Is it Parliament's job to make policies on how to help children of inmates to tackle conversations with peers in primary school? I thought, can this really be Parliament's job? It is surely a task of authority that we must give the authorities as free a framework as possible to help these children, trusting that the authorities can find out and if there are any guidelines that limit the authorities in carrying out their task, then we must remove them, but requiring the authorities to carry out the task in a certain way I am somewhat sceptical about. So I would actually just like to be honest and say that there are some things in the proposal that make me wrinkle a little bit and ask: does this end in a situation where Christiansborg's side actually ends up doing a lot of paperwork and a lot of rules that the authorities have to follow out there, so they have to hire another diversity consultant who has to interpret these rules so that they can be implemented? I hope that is not the case. I am, in fact, somewhat limited by my knowledge in the area of the framework for children of inmates, and that is why I think that, if nothing else, it is a good idea for a working group to look at this area. It can make the Folketing wiser, and we can look at what we can do better. But let us perhaps also make one another the small promise that we do not want to create too many new rules, requirements and various things and matters, and that we must remember that the authorities must also have the freedom to solve the tasks they consider best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103230	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103239	I can hardly describe how happy I am for the children. I think it's amazing. I made the first proposal in 2008, and it was poured down the board by almost all the parties there might have been a little support on the red side. So it's pretty amazing. I want to start with a few quotes from some of the children who have experienced a parent in prison, because it tells a little about what it's like for them. It's Sille, 7 years old, who says: "The others from the class say: " Good thing it's not my father who's in jail. And it's Anton who says: "It was hard because you weren't allowed to go to children's birthdays because they knew who your father was. The kids weren't allowed to take me home to play, because what if I told my dad that they had it and that TV, it could be he was breaking into the house. And it is Martin, who is 20 years old today, who also experienced it violently. Some of the big children experience that they get their phones and tablets taken, which is a very large part of their lives, and that the framework of the visit sets up such a conversation that is just really difficult and unfamiliar to themselves, but also to their father actually. He says: "I was so nervous, I was actually vomiting before I went in there. Because it was the first time in many, many, many years I had to be alone with my father for three hours, alone. And I kept telling my girlfriend what the hell am I supposed to talk to him about? It tells me these kids run the risk of being incredibly squeezed when they have a parent in jail. They are affected by guilt, grief, bullying, and it is obvious that distrust is what results. We can't take the grief and the anxiety from those children, but I think we have a really great obligation to alleviate that experience as much as we can. That is what today's proposal is all about, and that is why I am extremely pleased with the large and broad support. Families where a parent is in prison are often families in crisis. In addition to the lack and grief and the fact that a caring person is so abruptly torn out of life, there are other problems, for example. the economic challenges. How do you make everyday life hang together as a single parent? It means something, and it's really hard. That's why, in response to the Liberal Alliance, a special effort is actually needed in relation to these children. They risk being enormously invisible in the social system. There is not enough knowledge in the social system about them. I have had contact with many mothers who say they want to do the best for their children, but there's nothing to retrieve unless you're really, really exposed. Of course, there's a social system, but there's not really a system that can help them deal with this situation. I think many of the mothers are incredibly cool. They fight, and they actually want the best for their children. I think we should help them with that. It is heartbreaking to hear the stories they have about how the children are being bullied at school and where they just can't do much to mitigate it. I think it would be a good thing if we could have a fight with many of the child-enemy procedures and rules that exist in prisons and that we probably haven't thought much about how to experience from a child-view perspective and that we might easily change without it affecting safety. That is why I also hope that the Minister's working group will try to involve some of the children themselves, because I think they have the best evidence of how this is being experienced. I also hope that the SAVN association can become part of the working group because they have been working with this area for very, very many years. I think there is so much that can be done, and perhaps it is in fact many times small things that need to be done. I would like to thank you once again for the debate. I think that if Denmark is to be the best country to be a child in, it also applies to this group of children, and I find that the Danish Parliament is very much in agreement today, so thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103654	I would also like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103711	The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612103728	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for also focusing on this important agenda, which actually concerns me very much. Stalking has very major consequences for the victims, both physically and psychologically. Therefore, it is an important priority for the government that we have effective protection against this kind of harassment and persecution that seriously interferes with the lives and everyday lives of victims and families. For me and the government, there is no doubt that today's efforts are not good enough. It is simply not being done enough to secure the victims of stalking against the perpetrators who destroy their lives. That is why the government is of the opinion that more action must be taken against those who commit stalking, and the victims must be given better and faster help. In October 2019, last year, I asked the Attorney General and the National Police to evaluate, in cooperation with other relevant stakeholders, the proper functioning of the restraining order. The evaluation was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs on 6 March this year and shows overall that in the police circles there is a great deal of focus on the possibilities of applying immediate restraining, restraining, residence bans and expulsions. However, the evaluation also confirms that efforts in this area are not yet satisfactory and can be further strengthened. I have therefore launched a work which will lead to new initiatives to strengthen efforts towards stalking. One of the things that the government believes should be investigated is whether action against the victims is being taken quickly and consistently enough and whether it is being taken hard enough against the perpetrators of stalking and who do not comply, for example. a notification of a restraining order. Stalking is a problem that extends beyond my ministerial area, and cross-cutting solutions are needed if action is to be effective, which is why it is also important that the advisory forum for stalking be involved in this work. For the government, as I said, there is no doubt that the efforts we are making with regard to stalking must be strengthened, and so I would also like to thank the proposers for the concrete proposals that I find interesting. The government supports the intentions behind the resolution and I will include the proposals in the already initiated work to strengthen the efforts so that they can be discussed with relevant stakeholders. In this way, we will ensure that a concerted effort is made in which all good ideas and proposals can be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104025	There are brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104028	Thank you for the Minister's speech. Now there are some of these things that fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Justice, and I do not think that we need long-term work in this area. I think we need action. And from the Danish People's Party we have worked a lot in relation to this with stalking, and so we want a separate stalking clause in the law, so I want to know if the Minister for Justice can support that part of the motion for a resolution • The Danish People's Party also has a motion for a resolution on this. It was one thing, then, that the Minister could support a separate stalking clause? Then the Minister talks about the fact that this work that has been started must now be cross-political. So that's what politicians think: Oh, how long and when? So when is the work done and when does the Minister think action can be taken by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104131	To the first question, the answer is: Yes. On the second question, I would like to say that I understand that there is a desire to act very decisively and to say that this is where the closet should be, because then everyone can see how effective one is. But is it not better that we do it wisely than that we do it quickly? And now that we have set up a consultative forum which includes not only the ministries, but also stakeholders in the field, is it not better that we ask them instead of rushing it forward and risk hitting it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104217	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104218	It is always good to ask those to whom it relates, and they have already done a very good job at this stage, which can be taken as a starting point. So the minister didn't answer. Well, we can easily create a stalking paragraph, and then it is clear that there are many other things that it concerns, but at least you could start with that. But the minister didn't answer when this work is done. This has actually been a long time along the way, and there has actually been a wish from some of the parties here in the Danish Parliament for a separate stalking paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104256	It is true that you can easily change the penal code; you just have to ensure that it works and hits where it should, and then it becomes a little more complex. However, the situation is that on 4 May of this year, because we were in the Corona situation, we initiated a written process of work to involve this advisory forum on stalking, and in this context the actors were invited to send their contributions to us by 1 June. And we have received a large number of proposals, contributions and ideas that we are now looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104332	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104333	This time too, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for acting on a proposal from the SF. I think it sounds very positive that the Minister would like a stalking clause. I would like to know if it is possible to advance that part of the work so that we can find a solution quickly. Because I am encountering some really, really ugly stuff about stalking, where it could make a crucial difference. Then I want to hear about something from the minister. For some of what I have not included in the proposal here is the need for a special police unit to deal with stalking, partner violence and rape, which are, after all, difficult cases, because there are often only two who know what has happened. Will the Minister create such a unit? Does he think this could be an opportunity in the future police settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104434	The latter is, in fact, a wish that the SF has already raised for the negotiations that we are about to begin with on the forthcoming police conciliation. Surely it is best that we take the negotiations there rather than that I make my concessions here today, and then the SF will just demand new things from the government. So I think we should take that the right way. Then I actually don't remember the first part of the question, because I got so preoccupied with this thing with the special police unit. Can I have it back?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104512	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt will have the opportunity to do that one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104513	Then I can repeat the question. It was actually whether the Minister would like to bring forward the work on the separate stalking paragraph. Well, I've come across two cases where in one there are 3,000 violations of the restraining order and in the other there are 1,500. So this means that these victims are incredibly weak; they can't use the restraining order for anything. There is simply a need for a paragraph where we can put the stalker away and create some tranquillity around the family. So I think that this work is actually urgent, and then perhaps we can examine the other one even more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104550	I agree with that. I mean, I think it's relevant to introduce a stalking clause into the penal code. We can only really do that when the new parliamentary year begins, starting from the first Tuesday in October onwards. And since it is a new area of law, there may be some complications with it, but there should be no obstacles or delays on my part, so we will be working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104621	Then we thank the Minister and start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104640	Thank you for the floor. Every year up to 100,000 people are exposed to stalking in Denmark, and it is most often women who are subjected to stalking. Being subjected to stalking is a serious matter, it is something that can be devastating to one's life and well-being, it can take many forms, and many cases of stalking are never reported, and nothing is being done about them either, because there may also be different relationships. It may also be that one does not really consider the crime in question to be serious enough to file a complaint. That's why it's a good thing that the government is working on an initiative in this area. One might also think that it has been a long time in the process, and I agree with that, and I fully share the impatience with the SF and therefore also the motivation for this motion for a resolution. The Minister has already explained the work being done, so I will not go further into that here, but just acknowledge that this is a major problem and that it is a major problem for many people in this society. So we have to take it seriously and we have to do something about it, and that is why it is good that we get a move and also have the opportunity to look at the initiatives that are in the resolution here. I also hope that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights can sit down together and discuss how we are going to land it here in a way that will also signal the consensus that I sense there is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612104839	Thank you. The fear caused by stalking deserves no one to live with, and so I would like to thank the SF's rapporteur for bringing this important subject up for debate in the Folketing. The debate highlights a very serious problem. Those who are victims of stalking and persecution have their lives ruined by people who are sickly occupied. It is a nasty form of crime that makes it impossible for the victim to have a day-to-day relationship, and we in the Left agree that much more needs to be done than we are doing today. In our time in government, we implemented a number of initiatives. With the 2016 play-out stop stalking we were able to allow the police to issue an immediate restraining order, which is a preliminary restraining order if a person is suspected of stalking another for reasonable reasons. In this way, we ensured that it was possible for the police to intervene quickly before the stalking escalated. We also set out to tighten up the penalties for infringement of a restraining order, and we introduced a series of measures such as counselling and treatment services and training and training of professionals, and then we criminalised psychological violence, so that mental violence, which has a stalking-like nature, is punishable. These are all important tools, and they are all steps in the right direction. However, we are also well aware that we are not in the end yet and that much more needs to be done, and we would very much like to discuss the possibility of a separate provision in the criminal code if it would strengthen the legal position of the victim. SF also suggests that we look at how the police use the possibility to issue immediate restraining orders. This suggests that there is a big difference in the use of this tool from police to police circles, and we would also like to learn more about that, because it is important that the new legislation we are adopting here in the Folketing works as intended. So, of course, we have to evaluate that. Whether this should be done in a separate job or during the ongoing police negotiations, we need to discuss the work of the committee. Compared to the very concrete model mentioned by the SF, the Esbjerg model, we need to know more about how SF thinks it should happen if that model is to be rolled out throughout the country. We also need the SF to indicate how that expenditure is to be borne. Is it the municipalities themselves, or should we set aside funds for this in the police negotiations or any economic negotiations? Summa summarum, we are pleased that SF focuses on stalking, because it is a serious problem that can make victims' lives a hell. We are therefore mostly in favour of the SF's motion for a resolution and we look forward to the further work in committee where we can work together on the proposal here and cut down on it. This is far from a sensible proposal which addresses a very, very serious problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105207	There is one brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105209	Thank you and thank you for your support for the proposal. It became a little unclear to me whether the Left supports a real stalking paragraph, so I would like the Left rapporteur to say 'yes' or 'no' to 'Backs Left a stalking paragraph'?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105228	In fact, I think I said that in my speech, but I would like to say it again: we are actually very positive about separate legislation in the criminal code if it is the case that the current one does not cover and is not comprehensive enough, and there is, of course, much to suggest that. I think we should take it in committee; I think we should round it down there once. But as a general principle: Yes, we are positive about a separate paragraph in the penal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105257	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105258	That sounds very good, because then I would urge that we make a report at least on that part. I understand that there are elements of the proposal to which the Left is a little more concerned, and I am thinking in fact that the report will also be in harmony with the statements made by the former rapporteur of the Left, who is from March last year, when he says precisely that current legislation is not enough. So I'm thinking maybe you've rounded in the left, that what's lying isn't working.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105331	Well, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, there is no doubt that in 2016 when we started this work, which at that time was a new piece of work, it was for it to work. And when we make new legislation, sometimes it does not work as intended, and then, of course, we have to evaluate it. I also hear that there is an outstretched arm from the Minister of Justice in relation to the fact that we need to make this work. So with a little patience and with the fact that it is just rounding the committee, I am sure that a united Parliament can be behind the fact that we are improving this, so that more stalking victims in Denmark get better treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105407	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105419	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution. In the Danish People's Party we have also drawn up a proposal on stalking, but it has not yet been tabled because we thought that we could not achieve it within the current session. In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about having a separate stalking paragraph made, and in the Danish People's Party we also fought for the Dansk Stalking Center to get a fixed grant, and they got it in a stake pool agreement with a broad political majority. Our proposal acts among other things. on the fact that the government will present an action plan by the end of 2020 aimed at effective action against stalking. The action plan will then contain the following elements: the introduction of a separate stalking clause into the criminal code with a penalty of 4-6 years; the introduction of a maximum period of two weeks in proceedings for a restraining order from the application for a restraining order; and, if that is not possible, an immediate restraining order must be issued; in the event of a breach of the restraining order, the introduction of a maximum period of 30 days from the charge of a restraining order to the judgment; and we also want to introduce compulsory psychological treatment for the practice of stalking both in connection with charges and convictions, whether conditional or unconditional, or as preventive treatment in relation to a given restraining order. We also want professional upgrading of relevant staff in e.g. the job centres, police, criminal services, health care, including psychiatry, as well as the police call centre, which typically has the first contact with stalking victims. We also want to strengthen PSP cooperation, police, social services and psychiatry. Each year, up to 100,000 Danes are subjected to stalking, where they are systematically and persistently subjected to persecution and harassment from, for example. a former partner, a date, a friend or a colleague. It can have great physical and psychological and social consequences to be subjected to stalking, and it can also be very intrusive in the individual's life. Stalking can be among other things. make it difficult for the victims to do their job, and many find that it restricts their leisure life and relations with families and friends, as well as participation in society in general. Stalking can thus have high costs, not only for the stalking people, but also for the children, family and employer of those at risk. It is estimated that approx. 60,000 children in stalking exposed families may be involved and affected by the stalking. According to the proposers and the Danish People's Party, Stalking is an unacceptable interference in the freedom and right of the individual to participate freely in society, and this is a behavior that we should not tolerate in Denmark. That is why we want a massive focus on this area, and we also know that the immediate restraining order introduced under the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party, does not work as intended. Figures from the Public Prosecutor's Office and a survey to the police circles, also carried out by Berlingske, show that the country's police circles have only used the restraining order a few times against stalkers. So there's enough to work with and for in this area. Denmark is one of the few countries without a separate stalking clause, and this also means that stalking in Denmark does not have the same legal protection as for example. in Sweden and Norway and Great Britain. That is also why we in the Danish People's Party want a separate stalking clause to be introduced. So in the Danish People's Party, we are quite ready to continue working on this, precisely because we ourselves also have our resolution that we should have an action plan in this area. So we look forward to improving this area and fighting together, and I also hope that the Minister for Justice is perfectly clear, and that when we meet again, that is one of the first things we are addressing. Now I do not know how the remaining police negotiations are going to take place or how much we are going to achieve, but there may also be elements that need to be looked at in the negotiations with regard to this area. So thank you for the floor. We're ready to fight, if you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105915	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612105928	Thank you for the floor, President. Stalking is a very, very unpleasant phenomenon for the people who are or have been exposed to it. It is not just one, two or ten, but in fact up to hundreds of thousands of people who are affected by it every year. Stalking can have major psychological consequences for those who are exposed to it. Stalking is not clearly defined in law, but is in broad terms an expression of systematic and persistent persecution of individuals digitally or physically. We might as well write that into the law, because it is harassment and psychological violence on a very large scale. Victims are often confused about what to do. What are you gonna do? How do you get rid of the stalker? Is the stalker in the supermarket when you have to take the milk out of the fridge or when you take the children to the playground? That uncertainty is completely wrong. There are even some victims who end up moving from their address in pure desperation because they do not always experience that the system is helping in the right way. It cannot be right that it is the victims who must conform to a stalker. It doesn't make any sense. That is why I am pleased that there is support for this important political area. It is also for the Radical Left. The focus has been on it in recent years with extended possibilities of restraining and by comparing psychological violence with physical violence, but we can still do more. So thank you to the SF for the proposal, which has the backing of the Radical Left, and to the government, which is willing to act. The Radical Left is looking forward to cooperation for the benefit of the people who are subjected to stalking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110145	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110200	Thank you. Between 67,000 and 98,000 citizens in Denmark have experienced stalking in the last year. This shows a research report from the Ministry of Justice published in 2018. So there is no doubt that stalking is a problem that needs to be taken seriously and that the problem is much bigger today than it was for example. 30 years ago, due to the spread of the Internet, social media and mobile phone. Enhedslisten supports that stalking is written into the penal code in a separate paragraph where the phenomenon is defined. What the penalty should then be, we will have to discuss when we see a concrete legislative proposal. In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that strict penalties are a universal solution to all problems, and the four to six-year penalty imposed in Norway, which the SF would like to lean on, seems to us to be at a rather high end. However, we will be asking about the Norwegian experience during the committee reading of this motion for a resolution, and I have also prepared some written questions for the Ministry of Justice to clarify the Norwegian experience. We are very pleased that the SF in its comments mentions the arrangement in Berlin where the police can waive a charge for stalking if the stalker chooses to go into treatment. Basically, we believe in treatment far more than at a twisted level of punishment in cases of stalking. We are also very positive about intensified cooperation between authorities and the involvement of the Danish Stalking Center as in the so-called Esbjerg model, and we are ready to look at an extension of name and address protection, just as we are ready to see how we can prevent stalking on the web by e.g. criminalising what is called doxing where a person's private information, such as: address and telephone number are provided on the Internet for the sole purpose of stalking and harassing. The comments on the proposal show that the use of immediate restraining measures is very unevenly distributed across the country. This makes it obvious that the use of immediate restraining measures in stalking cases needs to be evaluated so that we ensure a fairly uniform practice in the use of this across the country. It cannot be right for stalking victims to have better protection from the perpetrator just because they happen to live in a police circle where priority is given to this. The protection must be good, and it must be the same all over the country. So it should not depend on where you happen to live, whether you are well protected from stalking. It is also worth considering whether stalking victims should be informed in future when the perpetrator gets out of prison or is on parole, as outlined in the comments. And we will support an improvement in police knowledge in this area. The Enhedslisten may support the motion for a resolution. And we are hoping for adoption so that in the autumn we can discuss the final formulation of rules and frameworks during the examination of a final draft law by the Minister of Justice. I would also add that I think that we have taken some good steps in the past by criminalising psychological violence, and I think that it makes sense, in this matter of stalking, to look at what is going on there and what the police's work on psychological violence is like, because I believe that with this legislation in the back we can prevent quite a lot of stalking, i.e. if you intervene a little earlier. So I think that with the debate we also have, on how to prevent harassment, stalking and hatred on the Internet, and the fact that we write stalking into the penal code, and the legislation we have on psychological violence, we can actually get very far and protect very many people from stalking. So thank you very much to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. We look forward very much to the work of the committee and send some written questions to the Minister for Justice about the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110604	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110614	Thank you to the SF for putting this very important issue on the agenda. Stalking is a terrible thing. I think we can all agree on that, especially because it's a strange form of violence: violence against the psyche, violence against the soul. Usually, when there is violence against people, there is some kind of brand grief or another marker. With stalking, it's something else, because you don't see the wound or the bruise. Instead, it sits inside you, and maybe that's why it's so hard to talk about too many and thus even harder to stop. The latter, however, can be helped by the Danish Parliament. Victims of stalking are victims of an ugly form of crime, and they deserve help and justice just like anyone else who is subjected to a criminal act. We therefore welcome the idea of penalising stalking on the basis of a special stalking clause and tightening the penalty, including fines, as a sanction. We are also in favour of the proposal to strengthen the protection of the address of stalking victims if they are at risk of being subjected to stalking again once the perpetrator has endured his sentence. However, we have some reservations about elements of the proposal which we would like to see deepened in the work of the committee. Among other things: We are reluctant to force all municipalities to use a specific model to handle stalking. The Esbjerg model, which is mentioned, is probably good, and other municipalities should see if it is something they can learn from, but we do not think that all municipalities should be subject to detailed regulation on the basis of the Esbjerg model. In addition, we would like to see more detailed information on how the initiatives are financed and what they cost to introduce. We are sceptical about spending more money on treatment, and we do not want, as the SF suggests and writes in the comments, that treatment offers should be an alternative to punishment. We are not in favour of this. All in all, however, we think that there are several things in the proposal that we are in favour of and that we are broadly in agreement. We would like to help tighten the penalties for stalking and do more for the victims, including providing them with better protection. This is an important agenda for the SF, but we cannot support the proposal with the elements that I mentioned, which we have reservations about. But if they are taken up in committee and removed or you make a report, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110903	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110904	Thank you for your support. It is, of course, very positive. I am slightly mystified that the rapporteur will not support the creation of treatment offers. In fact, it is my impression that a great many of those who stalk there are several different categories of people who stalk and at least one category, I think, are quite treatment-intensive. Is it not part of the solution to ensure that treatment can be offered?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110936	We are not opposed to treatment, but we are opposed to the use of treatment as an alternative to punishment. It's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110943	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612110946	I am delighted because I believe that treatment is actually part of the solution. We do not propose it as an alternative to punishment; we propose it as an element to be looked at. For what is the strength in Germany, where it is used today, is that when a person is charged, you can already say to him: if you go to treatment and participate well in it, it may be that no more should happen. We do not need to go that way in Denmark, but I do think it is important that we have a treatment offer from the outset and first contact with the police, because that is what stops it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111025	We agree that we should have a treatment offer. You have to be treated out of the stalking problem. And I have also read the comments about Germany, but I am not in favour of the German model, where the penalty can be exchanged for treatment. Should this also apply to other forms of crime? We don't think that's a good idea. That is why we are not in favour of the treatment offer as an alternative to punishment. You have to be treated, but at the same time you have to be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111051	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111101	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution uses the concept of stalking, but I really do want to use the Danish word persecution instead. As I understand the current state of law, punishment requires that a restraining order has first been issued which has subsequently been violated. It is therefore a violation of the restraining order that is being punished today, and not the stalking itself. For those situations where the stalking is systematic, targeted, openly unwanted and harassing, the law should contain an opportunity to punish the persecution itself. I read B 167 as a proposal that seeks to categorize stalking or persecution better than the current legislation does. According to this motion for a resolution, Stalking must have its own separate penal provision under the criminal code, and stalking must be defined in the penal code. Relationships included in the penal code are traditional relationships which, on a standard basis, appear to be worthy of punishment and, of course, you have to ask yourself whether stalking is such a common crime worthy of punishment. I think the answer is self-evident when, instead of the word stalking, we use the Danish word persecution. Persecution is undoubtedly a matter of criminal law, and New Citizens would like to support the SF's motion for a resolution to criminalise stalking under the penal code. On the day we then have to draft legislation on stalking, we need to pay particular attention to some of the issues that are also included in the resolution. We also believe it is important that the penalties should be effective and appropriate. We need to understand that there may be situations where the stalking is an expression of unhappy circumstances and may be stopped by a simple conversation. I am thinking perhaps in particular of situations where the parties have a common history, which must be described as both complicated and unhappy. We must also bear in mind that a clause on stalking may involve a risk of abuse, and we should not end up with a paragraph such as this. can be used by couples in divorce to bother each other. But, of course, the key point is that we must have a criminal clause that can effectively address stalking, a paragraph that does not leave any wrongdoing with a feeling that the system is failing. With the above-mentioned and mentioned points of attention, I think we can find solutions on the day we have to draw up a new provision, and I would therefore like to conclude by repeating that we in the New Citizens' Party support the resolution, and I also believe that it can be very good. We must put an end to persecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111353	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111402	Thank you. Let us start with all the positive things, all the parts of this resolution that the Liberal Alliance can support. We would like to support paragraph 4 to introduce an unlimited address protection for stalking victims, paragraph 5 on the evaluation of the use of immediate restraining orders and, of course, paragraph 6 on the notification of stalking victims when a convicted perpetrator is released. We all think this is a good idea. We are a little more sceptical and would like to have looked into some of the other proposals, such as paragraph 3 on the dissemination of the Esbjerg model. There we actually share the same basic view as Mr. Naser Khader said, namely, that one size fits all, that one size fits all, that one must force a particular model down on all municipalities, although there is certainly and probably is something to be inspired by in this Esbjerg model. Then there is the whole question of • and it is quite central to say whether you should introduce a separate stalking clause into the criminal code. It may well be that you have to, but before I am convinced that this is a good idea, we have to go into how to define and define stalking in a way that still ensures the legal certainty of citizens. Because as it is today, stalking is when you break a restraining order. Then there is no doubt that you have done something that is illegal, and that is what we would call today to some extent persecution or stalking. If you end up with some vague definition or vague formulation of stalking, then it can go beyond legal certainty, and then it creates some grey areas. When is it that you do something illegal because you turn to people in an unwanted way many times? We believe that there is a good legal element in the fact that today it is a breach of a restraining order which makes it clear that something has been done illegally. So there we have a concern about legal certainty. Then there is the question of the establishment of treatment services for persons who are accused, convicted or granted a restraining order in connection with stalking. I often see as a newly elected politician that you try to find solutions to problems because you love solutions, but you have not always examined whether the problem is really present. For the problem here should allegedly be that there are poor treatment offers for people who have committed stalking. I don't know if there is. I haven't seen any evidence that there is. On the other hand, I have examined what is of treatment offer today in the Department of Criminal Services. There is the Cognitive Skills Programme where participants learn to tackle everyday problems without resorting to criminal behavior. There's a program called Booster. It is a follow-up program for the Cognitive Skills Programme. Then there's a program about Anger Management, which seems to give itself up. There's the program on "Integrated Violence Prevention." There is a program called "New Roads" where participants are allowed to break out of crime through a greater insight into their own actions. And then there's the program "Strength and Wind," a conversational and motivation program specifically for convicted women. In other words, we have a lot of treatment programmes and treatment services for criminals, and before we say that we must now have another treatment offer for a new group of citizens, then we need to clarify whether it is because they fall outside the box. Are none of the treatment offers available to them today and do they now need a separate treatment offer? Or do we, as politicians, need to invent a problem because we have found a solution that we like? So compared to points 1, 2 and 3, we're a little skeptical. If it becomes a split vote, we will be happy to vote for paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. And thank you to the SF for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111721	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111726	Yeah. And that is because the rapporteur is a little concerned about how we define it with a stalking paragraph. In fact, Denmark is one of only seven countries across Europe that do not have a stalking clause. So it works impeccably in many other places. But does the rapporteur recognise that when you break a restraining order and when you do it 3,000 times and 1,500 times respectively, as in the two cases I have encountered, there is a challenge for the victim? It gives virtually nothing to break a restraining order; it is almost non-consequential. And that means that it continues and continues, and that it takes a long time, because the processing time in the police is also very long, and that means that the victim gets nowhere in his life. Could it not be a solution to introduce a stalking clause so that we can take action earlier and actually ensure that the victims have the calm they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111828	Well, if the stalking clause is to introduce aggravating penalties and aggravating circumstances for breaches of a restraining order, we are in favour of it. If it is a question of once again defining what stalking really is, but that it is something other than a breach of a restraining order, then I am concerned about such legal certainty. If the SF's intention with the proposal is the first and not the last, we are more in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111849	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111853	No, what we want is a real stalking Does the rapporteur therefore believe that the treatment services available in criminal services are targeted stalking? And how can they be applied to people who are being charged and who may need something earlier? Don't we need to do something here and help both the victim and, by the way, the perpetrator to stop this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612111924	I went through a large number of the treatment services in the criminal services today, all of which aim to ensure that criminals are no longer criminals. And I think it is a good thing not only to think in terms of punishment but also to think in terms of treatment, so I have no problem in principle with that. But the fact that we have to invent a special treatment offer for every type of crime does well to have a treatment offer for shoplifting, a treatment offer for heeling and all sorts of other things. Well then, I would like to have a thorough documentation that it is because there is a need for it, because otherwise we are just inventing problems because we have solutions that we like. And I'm skeptical about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And now it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112015	Thank you for the floor. After all, this was an uplifting debate, because now we have a clear signal that we are going to have a stalking clause, and I have fought for that for a very, very many years. So I think this is a good day for the victims, and I look forward to seeing it through. I would like to read a little aloud about one of the cases I have received, where there are 3,000 violations of the restraining order; perhaps you know it. It's a woman being stalked by her ex-partner. What's happening to her is that the ex-partner is constantly sending inappropriate messages and death threats. They're being shipped from a lot of different phone numbers. And it's not just for her, it's actually also her family and network that gets calls on a harassing scale from different phone numbers. It could be 1,500 calls in over a weekend. There are 3,000 violations. The perpetrator keeps watch at the victim's place of residence, where he visits her with stone throws on windows and cries at all times of the day. He also broke into the apartment through a balcony. The perpetrator has repeatedly destroyed the cars of the family, the network, and foreign people in the area... he has cut up the tires. The children of the family are contacted on social media in an attempt to fish information about the woman he stalks. There are threats to social services. There is persecution in a car driving madness with the aim of driving the person off the road. And there are many, many other things that the list is long. That is what we risk being exposed to as a stalking victim in the most glaring cases. Of course, not all cases are such, but they are victims who are extremely weak. Stalking is not just a harmless contact with another human being, it is rude, persistent, unwanted harassment. It's something that breaks down people and puts them in an iron grip. They often lose their jobs, they lose themselves and, above all, they lose confidence in other people, especially when they see that the authorities do not strike and stop the very intrusive harassment that they are subjected to. That is exactly why, in 2009, I tabled a proposal to create a stalking paragaf, which actually led to the first legislation we had in this area. I didn't quite come to house it was this restraining law that we have today, and it has subsequently been extended with an immediate restraining order, but basically it rests on the work that was done at the time. And I would say that Lise Lind, who comes from the Danish Anti-Stalking Association, and which I think many of us know, because she has held meetings with us, if anyone is the person who has pushed for legislation. She has tirelessly put us all on the doors, for the first time as an individual, and later she formed an association, which also exists today, with the sole purpose of helping the victims. And I must be honest and say that she has also pushed this time, so I have now put forward the third proposal in this area. This has always been very difficult for the victims. It has been difficult to obtain a restraining order; it has been difficult to get help in relation to the harassment that just continues; it has been difficult to be recognised in the municipality, which does not always understand what this entails. Sometimes you can't do an 8-16 job because the perpetrator simply sends emails to your colleagues all the time and comments on the company's facebook page. Such an employee may get a little tired of, and the victim will at least find it difficult to maintain his life. So these are just some of the things you fight around with when you're exposed to stalking. And the reason for this proposal is that I think we need to help the victims better, and the current toolbox is simply not good enough. As I said, I've gotten acquainted with two cases. In one there is a violation of the restraining order 3,000 times, in the other it is 1,500. These are, of course, extreme cases, but they have in common with cases involving other victims that the victims feel powerless when this happens because the restraining order does not provide any real protection. And sometimes you have to say that families need to be calm, and then you have to get rid of the perpetrator, and that requires a proper punishment. There is a very, very large difference in how good help can be obtained in the various police circles. Some people do it really well, and others do it bad. In an example, which is also fresh, the victim experienced that the police circle said that the perpetrator could not be restrained from visiting the children, despite the fact that a multitude of messages poured into the children's social media and games with very, very insulting messages about their mother. And it was definitely targeted the mother. In the end, the family then went to another police group and one of them did well and, in fact, is also the police group which issued the vast majority of immediate restraining orders. Here they got a restraining order in 14 days. So that is possible, but there is a lack of knowledge, there is a lack of competence, there is a lack of time and there is more missing in the toolbox. That is why I also think there is a need for a real police unit that focuses on these matters, but I think we should leave that to the police talks • and the Minister believes so too, yes. And then we have to discuss the Esbjerg model. In fact, it's just that the municipality and the police have training, that they have knowledge, that they ensure that the victim doesn't fall between two chairs. So when the victim leaves the municipality, there are named police officers standing by the police to take the case further. And that means something's gonna happen. For sometimes it is the municipality that meets the person first, because there is also a great risk that there will be a social case out of such a stalking case, and sometimes it is the police who meet the person first because it has become so gross that now you have gone to the police. But what they said to me in the police was that these people are so vulnerable that if they find that they are not being taken, they go again and they don't have the resources to come back. That's why it's important that we do something here. Then I also think it is important to develop treatment for the perpetrators. There is no doubt that some of these people have major problems with abuse or have different diagnoses, so part of the problem solution is also that we develop some offers that can be made very early in the process, so that it does not develop into a stalking case. The perpetrators are different. Some respond to the prospect of punishment; they stop when you threaten them with a restraining order. That is a good thing, and that is why the effort must also be swift. Others may respond to treatment. And then there are those who do not react at all, and there is my view that we have to put them in prison to bring peace to the family. I think I'm going to end here. I could talk a long time about this, which has been a heartchild to me for a very, very many years. I'm just glad we're moving forward. And in any case, if it is just the stalking clause that we can agree to ensure, then at least that means that help is coming to the victims. So thank you to all those who have backed up today and also to the Minister for starting work. I think that's really big. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112812	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112837	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 16 June 2020. Then it is the explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners. This is Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112925	Thank you. On behalf of all the Danish Parliament's parties, the energy rapporteurs have traditionally chosen to call the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply for a question debate on the annual energy policy statement. I would like to thank the Minister for running today and even on a day that I have been told is the Minister's birthday. So thank you, and congratulations. We look forward to a good discussion on energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612112956	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. I give the floor to the Minister. Happy birthday, and welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612113011	Thank you for that and thank you for the congratulations. It is true that I am today's birthday. I haven't actually gotten any gifts yet, and yet: This morning, when I met, I looked at a gift that stood on my desk. It was actually a gift I received last year, not on my birthday, but when I took over the Climate Ministry from Lars Christian Lilleholt, my predecessor. It's such a little Harry Potter character who's got such a wand, and the reason I got that figure was, as my predecessor said: fine with the 70-percent target you've set, but you can't do that with a calculator and talented officials here in the ministry; there you need magic, because it can't be done. Since then, a great deal has been done in Danish politics, including in the area of climate change. We have adopted a Climate Act broadly in the Danish Parliament, also with Lars Christian Lilleholt's party, the Left, which supports the 70%. It is quite historic, and it is also something that has resonated in the great world. Only last week Denmark was number 1 on a recognized list made by two American universities of the countries in the world that do the best on sustainability, among other things. with reference to our great efforts in the area of climate change. And the Climate Act is specifically described in their report, just as the government's proposal to highlight two energy islands is also made. It is not a small task, of course, to reduce so much. We need to reduce about as much from now until 2030 as we have reduced the last 30 years in Denmark. It might say a little bit about the size of this challenge. It is also a political objective, which is a little atypical, in relation to how to normally achieve political objectives. We are, for example. have been shot in the shoes and asked how we, as a party, the Social Democratic Party, the government, can suddenly be in favour of a 70-percent target when we said 60% earlier before the elections. And the answer to that is that we said at least 60%, knowing that you get over 60%, it starts to be very, very difficult, and then we cannot actually point to concrete measures. That's where we're still standing. We do not know exactly how to get to the 70%, but I would also say that that is exactly what makes it a beautiful objective. It is, of course, as ambitious as it is, because we have managed to have the courage to commit ourselves to an objective which, at the same time, we know we need to develop in order to achieve. We need new technologies, we need new ways of working together and we need to organise ourselves differently in our society. This is a fundamental change we are entering into. Much has also happened in relation to what is then plausible purely technologically with regard to the solutions we need, just in the last year. This has not only happened because of the 70%.; it would probably have happened by itself anyway, because the market is working out there because private companies are working on this transition. However, I would say that this has also happened because of our objective, because the fact that we are now saying so clearly to the rest of the world that we are going to do this here means that there is a market for those solutions and there is political support to set the framework for the green transition to be profitable as well. It has, of course, been the case that more people have looked that way. We have also involved more than ever before. The government's 13 climate partnerships have led to hundreds of recommendations, many of which are already recognised in the project presented by the government, and even more will of course be seen as inspiration in the future. When we propose two huge energy islands, it is a new era in Danish energy policy. Without being too high, you can actually say that if we do this right, it could be a new era globally. This is not the first time we will have done it if necessary; we were the first country in the world to set up a offshore wind farm in 1991. At that time, I do not think there were many economists clapping their hands and saying that it was indeed a smart and cost-effective way of producing energy, all the time that it was not. We then chose to do so anyway, because we wanted to be the country that took the lead, and we could see the prospects in it, and because we did so, we helped to set in motion a conversion that makes sea wind today competitive with even coal globally. And a lot of places in the world can make energy from sea winds without state subsidies. This is quite fantastic, and it is also clear that it is a very, very important trend if we are to have any hope of limiting temperature increases to below 1.5 degrees. The International Energy Agency says that using all the potential of sea wind could actually cover the entire world's electricity consumption 11 times. So it says something about the potential, but it then requires that we develop even more. And that's what the energy islands have to do. So, instead of having isolated offshore wind farms out in the sea, we have to go further somewhere to make better use of resources. We need these islands as hubs, as transformation stations for electricity, and we need to even connect it to power-to-x technology. Sounds like science fiction, but it's actually just science. We know how to do it. You can take electricity from a windmill, use it to make gas and turn it into liquid fuel and put it on an airplane and fly. That's amazing. Of course, if you believe that the world suddenly stops flying, and you believe that even if we are going to be a few billion more by 2050, than we are today, then we will probably be able to limit air transport in the world, you can go that way. But if you believe that this development will probably not stop and that we will probably get more people on the planet and that they will probably transport more and probably also want to fly, well then the right way is to go after someone else. Then the right way is to make air transport green. I can't believe we're gonna be a pioneer in this area. Imagine that, just a few days after we have presented our visions of energy islands, private actors are also joining forces with very, very large projects, a cooperation which has also found its inspiration in the government's climate partnerships. I really think we should welcome that. I mean, this isn't really gonna make a lot of cuts overnight. Of course. But it also plays quite well into the government's strategy, which follows two tracks. The way to put it up is not something we have made up ourselves, but something the Climate Council has recommended, which we have then taken on board. It is a question of looking at climate policy, on the one hand, on the one hand, we need to have an implementation trail: the things we can do on the short track that work so to speak here and now, where we know the means of action, and, on the other hand, we need to supplement it with a development track, namely the things we need to set in motion now in order to have the opportunity to achieve the difficult reductions later. Power-to-x technology, energy islands, when we talked about it a year ago in the election campaign and ahead of the election campaign, I think many thought it was primarily in the development trail. I certainly did. I don't think there were many people who dared to believe that we could think this in so that it could already bring about reductions before 2030. But what we are actually proposing now, what we are discussing with the parties of the Folketing at this time, is a plan to ensure that we also succeed on the relatively short track. We're counting on 4 GW connected to two islands by 2030. 4 GW, how much is that? Today we have 1.7 GW in total in the offshore wind farms we have in Denmark. In the long term, we are talking 10 GW, and that really is a revolution if it succeeds. It is also necessary, and it is necessary for two reasons: one is that this is what is needed in order for us to get renewable energy from the sea wind into our energy systems in a new way; I have talked about air transport; I could also have mentioned maritime transport; I could have mentioned heavy vehicles; I could have mentioned district heating; there are many, many options. The other reason why this is important is that one of the big problems you often encounter when you talk about renewable energy is how you store this energy when the sun doesn't shine and when it doesn't blow. This is a way to store energy, and that's why we think it's the future. Fortunately, there has also been attention to this in the world, and it is good for Denmark, because it helps make us the pioneer country we want to be, not for our own sake, so that we can boast about it, but because we hope that other countries look at us and are inspired by it. We know that we only account for 0.1 per cent. of the world's CO2 Financial Times has called this the world's most ambitious offshore wind project, and that is before we start the negotiations, and who knows it might be even better when we get to the other side. In any case, as far as the negotiations we had on the Climate Act are concerned, I put forward, on behalf of the government, a very good proposal for what it would look like, but I must also admit that what we actually agreed on was considerably better in qualitative terms after a few weeks of negotiations. So I would like to take this opportunity, although I have done so several times in other contexts, to thank the parties for it when we can work together in this way. I do not think there are many who find it out, because if you only read newspapers, they only think that we are tearing our heads off, but if you can work together in the way we actually did around the table, where we listen to each other's arguments, where we are actually willing to meet each other in compromises, we can actually do quite a lot in this small country, and I really hope that this will prove to be the case in the negotiations we are going to have over the coming weeks, in the light of the proposal that I presented on behalf of the government, together with my fellow ministers, a few weeks ago. With those words, I am very much looking forward to today's debate. Imagine being able to celebrate my birthday here with good colleagues in the first floor of the country and a smiling chairman by my side. You wouldn't want that any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114041	Thank you, Minister. So a brief comment from the rapporteurs will now be available before we move on to the actual debate. The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114058	Well, happy birthday. If I had known, I would of course have taken along the Enhedslisten's green climate plan and tied it nicely to the minister. Then the Minister could just as well see how to achieve the 70-percent reduction target by 2030 and do so in a socially balanced way. I think it's fine to focus on the sea wind potential, but when can those two energy islands be ready? How much effect do we have on them by 2030? I guess we're into something that's limited. However, we do have an energy agreement from 2018, which has three offshore wind farms with which we need to establish a roadmap for the last two that are in the agreement. And I wonder why the Minister has not taken the lead in drawing up a timetable for this and reporting to industry that this is the road map we have. When will the Minister come up with a roadmap for this? And when can we expect us to achieve the technology-neutral renewable energy supply by 2020, which we have started to negotiate and which we are waiting for impatiently, because we want to land it before the summer break? Is there a timetable for that, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114207	Yes, there is. But it is also clear that this is one of the things we need to negotiate. The impact of the energy islands by 2030 also depends on the extent to which we think them together with the packages that have already been decided. That's where I'm gonna start thinking them together. Of course, this is not the only option, but I think you have to know with yourself that there is something tradeoff. If you insist on having other packages that are not connected to the islands, it can push the islands out in time, all the time there must also be an opportunity to get rid of the electricity you make. But we are open to all that. What I can say is that when we propose 4 GW by 2030, no matter how you turn it around, it is very, very ambitious and also much more ambitious than anyone suggested before the election of the Parliament at least than we suggested could be talking about and finding a compromise prior to the last elections. I must remind you that we have 1.7 GW in total in Denmark today, and we will have 4 connected, up and running, by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114314	The next brief remark here in the opening round is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114321	Thank you, and thank you for a good speech. How good it is to be in the parliament which deals with the most ambitious climate agreement, or climate law in general, which exists in the world ■ and in the alternative we are totally behind it. But there will also be an evaluation in 2025 with partial targets, and although it is so ambitious, there is indeed a great chance that we will have to be even more ambitious. Does the Minister not really believe that we need to achieve an 80-percent reduction target for the next 10 years when we deal with it in 2025? Isn't that where we're going to end up if we're going to have a chance that the temperature in this world doesn't rise too much? And could we really use the extended option, which is provided for in the energy agreement to place additional offshore wind farms, for that? We can actually place ten offshore wind farms around there; that is, there is actually room for the development of ten megawatts of wind farms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114436	I think the questioner thought gigawatt; the questioner said megawatt. I'm gonna be the last one to fix somebody, because I came to call it the gigabyte when I was on TV some time ago, and I've been bullied with that since then. But the questioner is well into these things and is quite right that there is enormous potential. If we just look at what we have of wind resources, the potential is gigantic. What is the difficulty, in terms of how fast it can go, is how quickly we develop power-to-x so that we can exploit it and how quickly we get electrified our society so that we can exploit it. For us, that is the stop-block. It may even be a little square to call it a stop-block, because we can also help to influence it exactly ourselves. That is why our strategies must go hand in hand. In relation to the question of whether it turns out to be ambitious enough or not, I would say: it is difficult to speculate about, but that is why we have written into the Climate Act that we must constantly evaluate it in relation to science, and in relation to what it takes to stay below 1.5 degrees so we get to that. At any rate, I think I can say with a hundred percent certainty that when we reach 2025, the 2030 target is no longer the issue we are discussing, and that is the 2035 target we are discussing. Fortunately, this is the way things are in politics, that is to say, we are pushing each other in this way. I am not one of those who says that technology solves everything for us, but I am one of those who believes that if we push the market and if we set the framework, we can do a great deal with technological development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114604	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114610	Thank you, and also a great congratulations to the Minister. I have brought the Minister a little gift which he can get afterwards, but I am so brazen that I would like to ask for a gift back again, although it is not my birthday, because I am also a little concerned about the development of sea winds. Recently, a major partnership with e.g. Ørsted, A.P. Møller - Mærsk, SAS and a number of other players presented a bid for what a hydrogen factory near Copenhagen needed from gigawatt; and that was 2 GW. In view of this, it can be said that we are living at a time when being very ambitious is rarely enough. It is very, very, very much. Therefore, I would like to hear the Minister's reflections on whether, in this respect, it would not actually be quite sensible both to build the 4-gigawatt sea wind energy islands by 2030, but actually also to implement the offshore wind farms that lie in the energy settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114711	That is exactly what we have to negotiate on the basis of the tradeoffs that I outlined just now. But in relation to the message that has come, and which was also the one I referred to, I just thought that I wouldn't just mention companies and companies named here from the platform. It's clear that others can join. That is, of course, the good thing about it, because we really hope that it will be taken in, not only in relation to this specific project and not only in relation to the Baltic Sea, but also in relation to what we want in the North Sea. There are also other countries that are very concerned about these things, and there we are also looking for close cooperation. So what I'm really looking forward to sitting around and geeking over the next few weeks with, among other things. The questioner here, but also other good people in the room, is exactly the question of how we actually do this smartest and best. And when what is being called for, that is, what you want in a gift, is not just a very ambitious approach, but a very, very, very ambitious approach, then I will top it and say: you get a very, very, very, very, very ambitious approach. I think I got to say you, and I'm sorry, I thought the questioner would get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114805	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114814	Thank you very much, and congratulations again to the Minister. I do not have a gift, like the rapporteur from the SF, but in reality I may feel a little that, for the Radical Left as a party, there is still a gift from the Minister that remains, because we have been promised as part of the understanding paper an electrification strategy for Denmark. In the past, I have called for the inclusion of these estimates of how much renewable energy is needed in a 70-percent context. For what we are discussing at the moment, and the answers we get from the Ministry, goes a lot on the old base projection and the 60%. So I will look forward very much to that, so to get the gift that we can have a real electrification strategy for Denmark. My question is really on the development track and on the potential of power-to-x. In the government's proposal for negotiations, I cannot find any funding that is in it, and I am surprised that even though the private parties can lift a lot and can see a business in it in the long term, it is after all the case that green hydrogen is two or three times more expensive than ordinary black hydrogen. So the question is really whether the minister is open to look at the possibility of funding for these development projects in power-to-x, so that we can create the revolution that is needed to reach the final thanks up to 70%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612114949	First of all, we fully support the need for a new base projection, and we will also be able to present it to the parties, even at the beginning of next week, I think; it is at least right on the stairs. As the questioner knows very well, it is not, of course, such a political document that I am writing. This is, of course, something that is handled by professionals and that is based on data in a rather long and complicated process as it does every year. I am also looking forward, of course, to seeing the new base projection, which is on the right track. As far as the financing of power-to-x is concerned, it is true that it can be quite considerable investment, which is what we hope it will be. But it is also true that money does not necessarily have to come out of the treasury, because we are hoping to do this in a way that will enable us to attract private investment. The same applies to the energy islands. The questioner knows that very well, but I repeat it as often as I can, because it often sounds expensive, and it is. So we are talking perhaps 75 billion. kr. in the first place and three-digit billions in the longer term in relation to energy islands. It will be the largest infrastructure decision and investment in the history of Denmark, but it is supposed to be private investors who have to raise that investment. And the signals we're getting from the market right now are that they're more than willing to. So I think that what this is all about for us is making the right decisions in relation to the framework conditions and in relation to wanting it here and therefore also having a strategy for electrification etc. to which the questioner refers. Then I think the investments will be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115119	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115129	Thank you. From here, too, a great happy birthday to the Minister. It is not every day that you have the honour to actually be allowed to congratulate a minister, so it is also a great day for us. I'd like to ask about the power grid. In the government's climate play it is very absent, it must be said. Could the Minister just briefly lift the veil a little bit of what you do with thoughts about the electricity grid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115152	This is an enormously good question, because it precisely hits into those core discussions that we need to have with each other. In other words, there is a very, very large difference between whether we are making expanded offshore wind capacity in a situation where we have power-to-x as a outlet or whether it is something that needs to be brought in and wired directly on land. That is why the timing is important, and that is also why I am not just as the otherwise ambitious minister in this area, of course, saying: the faster, the better. It is not always that faster is better in this case because it may cause some other problems in relation to marketing. We have had major discussions in this Chamber about, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. Viking Link, which I think is a sensible investment, but which I also recognise has quite a major impact on some of the people and natural areas that are affected by it, and that is another reason why we have to think very carefully about in the future, in terms of how we organize that part of our energy system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115248	Thank you to the Minister for the first round and welcome back after the rapporteur series. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and therefore to the general rules for short remarks. And the first rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is the rapporteur for the questions, and that is Mrs Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115311	Thank you. The energy policy statement is, after all, an annual occurrence. However, this year it is still different, because in the meantime we have been given a climate law. It is a climate law with such ambitious objectives that they can only be fulfilled if we make significant changes to the way our energy system works. It makes me proud that for the fourth consecutive year Denmark has been named the world's best energy system. And it makes me even more proud that we use the knowledge we have about our energy system to travel around the world and help other countries in a greener direction. Our expertise in everything from integration of wind power, district heating, water technology and much more helps create concrete and noticeable CO2 Thus we have already come a long way and what we can do in the energy sector is in demand all over the world. But Denmark can become an even stronger pioneering country, which is why we must move forward with tomorrow's solutions. In the future, we must not only be able to help other countries with the gains from wind integration, district heating, etc., but also share our experiences with energy islands, green fuels, carbon capture, green industrial processes and an energy system in which oil, gas and coal are rapidly retreating. If we are to be able to pride ourselves on that knowledge in the future and be able to communicate it globally, it is now that we have to take the next steps at home. With the government's part 1 of the coming climate action plan, we are just putting it forward. With two new energy islands, we must be able to reap sea winds on a whole new scale. We must be able to take advantage of Denmark's unique location, where we can both contribute green energy to neighbours in North, West and Eastern Europe. And not only that: we must also be able to exploit this enormous potential in the sea wind to create green fuels that will be so crucial if we want to do something about heavy transport such as aircraft and ships. There is, of course, a major political task here, as the Minister has already mentioned, in securing the right framework for the great-scale power-to-x of the future. But there will also be a few years before the energy islands are ready, and in the meantime we will also have to move on with the green transformation of our energy system on other points. That is why the government is also proposing that there should be, among other things: should be able to help far more Danes to get rid of their oil pine and gas pine, and that it should be easier for municipalities and citizens to choose green heat pumps and district heating for. We also need to address energy efficiency improvements, electrifications and green gas for business and industrial processes. And not least, we need to create a green waste sector where we recycle much more and have reduced the amount of waste energy from plastic in particular, which is precisely what we are negotiating these days. In the Social Democratic Party we therefore look forward to working together on the forthcoming negotiations with the Danish Parliament's parties on these important areas and initiatives that will help us to meet the ambitions of the Climate Act, but also help to ensure that Denmark also has the world's best energy system in the future. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten and SF, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the seriousness of the climate challenge and the need for rapid and ambitious action. The Danish Parliament welcomes the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. The Danish Parliament recognises that energy policy action plans aimed at achieving the 70% target should be negotiated according to the overall climate action and with overall strategies for other sectors' expected CO2 reductions. Against this background, the Folketing instructs the government, in accordance with the Climate Act Agreement, to present an overall overview of the expected reductions by sector in the coming climate programme as a result of government proposals and already adopted policies. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to increase the electrification of energy consumption, including in industry, transport and heat supply, as well as to increase the pace of the RE expansion by presenting plans for the next two offshore wind farms and organising the technology-neutral RES offerings for 2020. In addition, the government is encouraged to increase the energy savings effort and to present a plan for the future assurance of the Danish electricity system. V 85).
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115744	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption will be included in the continuing negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115757	Thank you for the introduction by the rapporteur. The rapporteur touched on this point: we must help the Danes with their oil pine and natural gas pine. In SF we are of the clear opinion that we must also help to ensure that no more people are set up, because basically it will cost and make this transition difficult, which we must ensure in the Danish homes. So I would like to know whether the government, or rather the rapporteur's party, which is in government, has some reflections on whether we should actually introduce a stop to set up new natural gas fires and also an immediate stop to oil fires.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115839	What we are focusing on in particular in our proposals is to help people get rid of the people they have and to give a hand and an opportunity to get subsidies to get rid of the guys, etc. that are already in their homes. What else we need to discuss in the negotiations, we need to go into the negotiating room, but there is no doubt that it is important to send out a strong signal to people that when they are going to reinvest in new green solutions, they must of course think about and choose the green solutions that are fortunately now available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115917	The SF's view is only clear that it is simply necessary to ensure that the problem does not get bigger and at the same time offer reasonable serious help to the Danes who, for many, live outside the collective supply network. The rapporteur is also aware of this, because she has grown up where there is a little distance between houses. And, of course, there must be an offer of something else and an electric heat pump at a reasonable price. In this respect, the SF has actually put forward a proposal, which we have also debated in this Chamber, among other things. to allow municipalities to enter such near-heat solutions. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612115952	There's no doubt that we need to look at how we can phase out these guys, and so on, as it's out there. I would also like to highlight another point, which is also part of the government's initiative, and it is of course that we also want to make it easier for municipalities to choose the green district heating solutions for. So in this way we must also intervene there, you can say where you want to have a greener district heating system instead of, for example, the natural gas network that is there today. So it is also really important to look at the system itself behind and make sure that you can choose some greener collective solutions for out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120031	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120036	Thank you. My question concerns what the Socialist Minister also mentioned, namely the incredibly ambitious idea of proposing 4 GW. I fully recognise the ambitious and visionary nature of the energy islands, which is, after all, an old radical concept of kingship, but in relation to the expansion, the speed, as the SF rapporteur also mentioned, also in view of the fact that two thirds of what comes from the energy island in the east is likely to be used for power-to-x, and when you look into a context in which the Climate Council proposes 5 GW, there is little missing in relation to the social democracy being set up to 4 GW. And that brings me to the Social Democratic initiative from just before last year's elections, where you proposed a Green Supplementary Agreement to the Energy Conciliation Agreement, where you also had the ambition that 4 GW should be built. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to clarify: have the Socialists really become more ambitious with the 4 GW you are proposing now, in relation to what you proposed before the elections? And if the difference is only Thor offshore wind farm, are you sure that it is enough to meet the need in a 70-percent context?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120209	Social democracy has become more ambitious with regard to sea winds since the elections, and that comes, among other things. in this thinking with the energy islands: that we need to get even more out of the ocean-wind resources that we have. And the whole idea of energy islands is also the possibility of future-proofing, so that even more sea wind can be coupled on the energy islands. I also think that the Minister has mentioned some good things in his reply that now we are also going to negotiate on this particular issue and on how to ensure that Denmark continues to be the world leader in the field of offshore winds. And there we look forward to hearing what is of input from the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120256	Sir. Ruben Kidde for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120258	So just for the sake of clarification: in relation to the Social Democracy has moved from 60%. Before the elections to vote in favour of 70 per cent. and now we need to steer energy policy safely to the goal of 70%, you then estimate that these 4 GW that you proposed before the election are still sufficient after the election, i.e. even though the ambition has moved from 60%. 70%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120328	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would just like to clarify the use of direct charges: this also applies in the majority. Then it is the rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120338	Well, I do not believe that the energy islands are the end point at all for what is going to happen on the offshore winds, nor for achieving the 70-percent objective, nor for achieving the climate neutrality target by 2050. We look forward to negotiations on this. As the Minister also mentioned, this is a proposal that we have made, and then we will have to see what we can do inside the negotiating room, also to ensure that we proceed from there with an agreement that we are heading in a very ambitious direction in terms of sea wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120413	Then there are no further brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612120424	Thank you for the floor. And congratulations to the Minister on his birthday, and thank the Minister for the energy policy statement. With the energy policy statement, we look back at a year in Danish politics, which is characterized by both a parliamentary election and a change of government, and the majority of the Danish Parliament's parties are united behind a climate law, and we have seen the first part of the government's climate action plan with a great deal of focus on energy policy. In the Left, we look forward to seeing more. There are positive trends in what we have seen. Although we have great challenges ahead of us, the energy policy statement gives a positive impression, and that is certainly not without reason, because when it comes to energy policy, we have made positive progress over the past year. In 2018, the then VLAK government entered into the Energy Agreement with all parties of the Folketing. The Energy Agreement supported Denmark's global leadership in green conversion and in many ways transformed Danish energy policy. It laid the foundations for achieving our ambitious green goals. With the agreement we drew the direction for Denmark's future expansion of renewable energy, and we showed the way to 55%. renewable energy production and 100% Green power in 2030. At the same time, the energy agreement was an important step on the road to net zero emissions by 2050. Then we can say: what happened then? With the last technology-neutral offer of wind and sun, we achieved an average support price of just 2.27 øre. This is six times lower than in the past, and it is important because the green transition is a major task, and on the energy policy side it is about getting as much money as possible. We must make it green, but we must also do it wisely, and that is why, in the eyes of the Left, the energy policy of the future is very much market-based. But we also have challenges ahead of us. It is important that we set up our infrastructure and rules so that we have an optimal framework for the continued ambitious and appropriate development of renewable energy. Increasing amounts of green energy require an energy market where the flow can flow freely, also across borders. We must ensure that our infrastructure can keep up as we electrify, expand renewable energy and consume more power. This must be done in a way that does not compromise security of supply. Our energy system must be integrated and flexible, so that we among other things. can use data and digitisation to handle future electricity flows. That is also what is sometimes called artificial intelligence. This requires that we think in new ways. This requires continued investment in research in this area. Research must also contribute to other solutions to the challenges of today and the future, for example. challenges with power storage and power-to-x. When we look at the year that passed and the Climate Act, we can say that we are looking back at the past year. In the sign of energy policy, the most obvious thing is left, the Climate Act. The Climate Act is, of course, the name of the climate, but we all know that energy policy plays a crucial and important role here. At least that is what we imagine in the Left. For us in the Left, it is important that we ensure that we have enough energy, and that is, of course, a foundation for our welfare societies as well. There we have a little doubt about where the government really wants to go, how much the government believes the Danish energy policy should play in the green transition. We in the Left recognise that we are faced with a great task if we are to achieve the green ambitions of the Folketing. We recognise that the Danish energy policy also plays a major role. This requires concrete action, both in the transport sector, in the industry, but certainly also in our energy production and supply. But we must also be reasonable. Recently, the government presented its first part action plan, including a plan of action. focus on energy policy tools, but also, for example, energy policy tools. on trash. The plan will reduce emissions by 2 million. t CO 2 h. Actually, it's not that much. Where are the remaining 17 million? I don't know, come from? We are actually a little worried about that in the Left, so we are focusing a little on the fact that we lack an overall strategy. When we originally concluded the agreement on the Climate Act with a large majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, it was stated that sectoral strategies and indicators for the CO2 of the largest sectors should be drawn up here I would like to be quite clear: we are not talking about sectoral objectives, but rather about an overall strategy in different sectors, such as energy, transport, etc. We actually think that's the right way to do it. Otherwise, it will soon be an impossible task to assess whether the government's proposal for CO2 tonnes in the energy sector is at all enough. We need to be able to see the outline of an overall strategy in order to assess whether we are doing enough when negotiating action plans for each sector. If you have to build a house, you often start by drawing a sketch, and then you discuss the sketch, and then you can change a little on where the windows are and what it looks like before you start making the very concrete calculations on how the load capacity in the ceiling should be etc. We need such a sketch, and so I would like to make the following on behalf of the Left, Radical Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, Alternativet, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (UFG) and (SP) parties: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises the seriousness of the climate challenge and the need for rapid and ambitious action in which the energy sector plays a key role. The Danish Parliament recognises that energy policy action plans aimed at achieving the 70 per cent objective of the Climate Act should be negotiated according to the overall climate action and with overall strategies for expected CO2 reductions in other sectors. The Folketing therefore instructs the government, as part of the ongoing negotiations on a climate agreement, to present the Government's expectations of reductions in individual areas. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament notes that the government should ensure continued high security of supply, including a future-proof electricity network, and to work for an energy policy that strengthens the competitiveness, growth and employment of Danish companies while contributing to the achievement of the 70 per cent objective of the Climate Act and the Paris Agreement. V 86 (reprinted)
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121123	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments to the rapporteur and the first is to Mrs Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121137	I just want to hear from the rapporteur about the principle for which I have known the Left Party for many years, namely that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. Does it stand by when climate plans are being negotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121202	That was a very quick answer, and that is quite all right. Here is the questioner for his second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121203	But perhaps the rapporteur could make it clear to me, in a few more words, what is most important if it is a prerequisite that we, for example, should be able to do so. to make green tax changes and will have to pay for a change in Danish consumption, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is it so that the principle that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane is above the climate action, or is the climate action over that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121237	Our approach is that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, but our approach is not that we will not be looking at a conversion of green taxes. But we have the basic view that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane. When we have that view, it is one of them. also because we want the green transition to provide growth in Denmark and ensure business and competitiveness, and that the green transition must also be very, very much designed so that it is genuine global climate reduction that we are doing. So the starting point is that we don't want it to be more expensive to be a Dane, and that we actually think we're on our way with the latest tenders we've had.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121320	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121323	I thought it was a good question from the SF. For what if being a Dane becomes more expensive? What if it turns out that we cannot achieve these reduction targets without being more expensive to be a Dane? Will the Left then abandon the reduction targets? Or what do you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121354	Now hypothetical questions are always lovely, but our starting point is when it comes to the solutions we have to work with, that one of our points is that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane. Because we also believe that we will continue to have a welfare society where growth and being able to offer people a really good offer, including in the public sector, play a crucial role. That is why it is important that we have a society in progress and not in liquidation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121410	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121411	Yes, and it is certainly ambition that we share here from the point of view of the Alternative. But I think we should just be careful to say that this is going to be an amazing growth adventure. It may well be that we have to accept that it may well hurt, and I also think it is important that we are honest about it. My second question is whether the rapporteur thinks that the reduction targets coming from agriculture from that partnership are enough. After all, we are the world's most agricultural country, and approx. 80% of what we produce goes to feed animals. Meat production is one of the greatest climate sinners. Are we not at the point where agriculture may have to tighten up even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121449	We believe that agriculture is really, really effective right now. In fact, we have the most efficient food production in the world in Denmark, and the initiatives that are under way right now, where we are researching among others. to ensure that we can make protein and etc. of locally produced crops in the fields in Denmark, a picture of the fact that agriculture can contribute quite, quite significantly in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121532	Thank you for that, President. Our good rapporteur, sir. Morten Messerschmidt did not have the opportunity to be here today, so I have promised to read his speech just now. Today's debate is about Denmark's energy policy. What about the green transition? How far have we come with the political decisions we have taken over the past year? And the debate is important. In the Danish People's Party, we are particularly interested in maintaining a high level of security of supply while converting to green energy. The Danes must have confidence that they can turn on their lights and that there is heat in the radiator. That is why we are also surprised that the government has just presented a climate change initiative without dealing with the electricity grid. In the Danish People's Party we support that a larger part of the energy should come from power. It would be foolish for us to have spent a lot of money building offshore wind turbines if we are not going to use the power for anything. We have nothing against heat pumps and we are fighting to make it possible to have an electric car wherever you live in the country. But that is only possible if our power grid is equipped for that task. Green conversion is not just about building large windmill islands, which could otherwise be led to believe if you listen to the government and its support parties. Green transition is also about giving people confidence that the system works. That is why we cannot discuss energy policy without discussing electricity networks. We hope that the rest of the Folketing will agree. However, the government's climate action contains several good initiatives. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that you want to lower the electricity tax on heat. After all, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of Danes in the coming years investing in replacing their oil pine or natural gas fired with a heat pump. This is a great economic challenge for many. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that the Danes receive financial help in purchasing the heat pump. It is crucial that the electricity tax comes down as it makes the annual heating bill cheaper, just as we need subsidies for the scrapping of the oil boiler. The Danish People's Party is happy to contribute to all of this in the negotiations. We are in this time negotiating the government's climate action. This is indeed the first time the government has presented something concrete about how to achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. However, this suggests that the government has listened to the Danish People's Party, because we are very concerned about the 70-percent target and whether this is possible in the light of the economic crisis created by the corona. In that case, only a tenth of the way is reached with the government's proposal. So thank you to the Minister if that is an indication that he also cares about the Danes' economy and jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. It's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121809	Thanks for a good speech. It is good that the rapporteur does not flaunt this so clearly that we have to reduce our ambition level. Now it is probably the case that we need to sharpen it up. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that we may in fact have to tighten it up to 80%? already in 2025, so that we have to work at 80% reduction from 2025 until 2035?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121836	Now I am not our environmental rapporteur, so it may be difficult for me to answer that, but our basic view is that everyone should be able to keep up and that the Danes should be able to keep up. It is very good with ambitious targets, but it must also be realistic and it must be possible for everyone to adapt. I hope that was a fairly full answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121857	I am very familiar with the news of being in a rapporteur's area. I have all the rapporteurs in the alternative. If the rapporteur has an equally general answer to my next question, I am happy to accept it. I am thinking of agriculture. It seems that agriculture should reduce by 52 per cent. It may not be enough. Our meat production is a huge, huge climate sinner. Will DF help to get agriculture to sharpen up a bit and perhaps set a slightly higher target?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612121931	With my knowledge of agriculture, it is in fact my view that agriculture is doing a great deal. We must understand that agriculture must also be given the opportunity to keep up. We are never reluctant to sit down and talk to others, but it must also be fair to those who have to do what we ask them to do. There are some challenges facing agriculture that I think we should take seriously and also talk about with agriculture. As I understand it, they're actually doing everything they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122000	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Ruben Kidde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122009	Here again we stand for the traditional energy policy statement and debate. And that is on a happy basis, because since last year we have adopted a historic climate law which binds the Folketing and the government to work for the 70-percent reduction target. So where the discussion last year was about whether it should be 60 or 70 per cent, we have already started the discussion, whether it should be 70 or 80 per cent. And it is a good thing that even a climate freak like a radical like myself must say that we have broke up with the 70% and that we can now only have security for the 60-65 per cent unless we make a huge effort. Therefore, as a radical rapporteur in this area, I would also like to sign for the government's commitment to energy islands. It has been a radical king's idea, and we are very, very happy with and look forward very much to negotiating concretely about energy islands, which hopefully can give us a lot of gigawatts by 2030. Having said that, the energy islands do not necessarily provide everything, at least not from our point of view... not with what we have seen so far... in relation to the Climate Council saying that we need at least 5 GW of renewable energy from offshore winds by 2030. The government's proposal does not come up with that; at best it comes up to 4.7 GW if you bring Thor along, which I think is part of your premise. So there's a piece up, too, all the time that we're probably going to have to use perhaps 2 GW for power-to-x of the capacity to be built up in the east if this partnership, which has manifested itself around offshore wind and hydrogen production, becomes a reality. Therefore, even if we are very, very happy with the intention of energy islands and are looking forward to negotiating it, we need to increase the volume and speed up the pace of expansion, and it could be by advancing and deciding to run with the offshore wind farms that are screened and are actually ready for a tender process. But we must negotiate on this, and it should not change the fact that we are basically delighted that we are going to negotiate energy islands. Some of what I was talking about just now is also about what the need is for the green power, which is going through our cables and ultimately going into our sockets, and not only in our outlets for our hair dryers, but also in our electric car sockets, which hopefully we will have a million or more of by 2030, and our heat pumps, which we are trying to spread, and also in relation to a conversion within the industry. Therefore, the question of exactly how much green current we need is still missing and flapping in the wind for the moment. The old base projection, which says that we have 100 per cent. VE coverage in 2028 can't be fair compared to what we're looking into now, when our ambition level has risen so significantly. So we are still waiting impatiently for a suggestion from the government about this, in other words in terms of what the need is for renewable energy and the pace of expansion seen in a 70-percent context. We very much hope that this will be part of the negotiations that we will have in the coming weeks before we go on summer holidays. In relation to the development trail, it can be said that perhaps one year or two years ago we could say that it was really very difficult to know how we reached a 70-percent target, so I think things have changed. In fact, perhaps we can say with relatively great certainty that we can achieve the 70%. It will just require a bet where we are ready to take a risk as well and thus both invest ambitiously in the development of power-to-x and also in the capture of CO2 If we are ambitious in the three things and are willing to take a risk, it should certainly be possible to reach the 70%. That is why we in the Radical Left also believe that it is important to give priority to the negotiations, and we are also pleased that the government has just put forward negotiations on the capture of CO2 This is probably also something where, although the major business players can lay down a lot themselves, there will probably be a need for some help from the political team. The last thing I want to say in relation to the negotiations is that it has to be said that we have finally started, and in the Radical Left we would like to sign that the government has taken the initiative for negotiations here before the summer. I am not sure that would have happened without radical pressure, so that must also be acknowledged when it comes. There was also an announcement from the Prime Minister earlier this week, in that the government is also willing to look at a green tax reform, and that is of course something we are very happy to have an agreement on here before the summer. However, one thing that several rapporteurs in this Chamber have mentioned is that it is not a pleasant situation as a negotiating party to feel that some essential parameters of the overall plan are being kept away from our eyes. Several parties feel the need to get an indication of what the government expects to negotiate and measure when we ignore these individual sectors that have been put forward with the government's proposals. This is something which, in relation to the proposal for adoption which has been submitted to the President, I can at least say that there is a majority in favour of it in the Folketing, and that is, of course, something that we expect the government to take seriously. In those words, I wish the Minister a continued good birthday and give a really heartfelt recognition that we have come a long way in a year, but there is still an eagerness on the part of the Radical Left to build on top.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122759	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a desire for short comments. The first one is for Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122805	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is no doubt that we share many of the same ambitions in relation to what this green transition is going to contain, both on electrification, sea winds etc. In fact, we also share the ambition that there should be a green tax restructuring of our taxes and also some of our tax systems, and we agree that there should be a significantly higher CO2 but the radical rapporteur will have to explain something to me, because it may be that I have not understood it. Can the radical rapporteur assure me that both income tax relief should be granted in this respect and tax reliefs which I could read recently in Jyllands-Posten? Is it correct to understand that both income tax relief and corporate tax relief should be granted in the context of this green tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122855	In the Radical Left, we believe that green tax reform is quite essential if we are to have confidence in achieving the 70% target. in the most cost-effective way. Because on the one hand we say that we need to introduce a CO2 which is why we are saying that this revenue is coming in on an ongoing basis by having a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122951	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612122953	I simply believe that my understanding of the statement by the Radicals will end there. For the Radicals, in the same vein, say that they want a tax reform similar to the one presented by the Climate Council, which also includes a base deduction, a reduction in energy taxes for heating, among other things. on electricity, and there the Climate Council honestly says that there isn't a lot of money to give off. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur of the Radicals can tell me if there is no money, increasing revenue from CO2 money for education or welfare, or where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123031	The Radical Left recognizes that the SF has worked for, for example. In the last financial law, to have minimum standards introduced and also to have supported the radical struggle to cancel the huge savings in education that were planned. So I think the rapporteur is aware that the Radical Left will give priority to education and that the thing about taking money from that area is... now I run out of time, but I just want to say that we are going to look at a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123113	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123118	Thank you very much. Thank you for your cooperation, and thank you for a good speech. Well, I just had to understand exactly when the radical rapporteur is talking about 70, 80 or 60%. Is the radical rapporteur aware that the world's most ambitious climate legislation may not be enough and that we may have to raise the bar up to 80%. CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123149	Well, we have to keep discussing in five-year and ten-year intervals what the new objectives should be. I sense that if we are to have any opportunity to implement the green policy with the government and a broad majority in the Folketing, there is a need to set the bar as high as possible. And there's 70%. If we are now in a position to increase it further at a later stage, then that is also possible. But it can't just be a think of a number game from Parliament's platform. It will have to be based on what is realistic to make the most ambitious and with a majority of parties in the Folketing behind us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123239	Yes, but it's actually not think of a number in the sense that in the 70%. is not included in our imports, for example, and the figure was also calculated in relation to the fact that we should end up at a 1.5-degree temperature increase and settle for it. But these are some calculations that are already a few years old, and there has been a bigger CO2 so it looks as if we are even more busy than we think. In this respect, the North Sea oil is of interest, and I understand that the rapporteur's party would like to put an end to the next round of supply of North Sea oil drilling, which we would very much welcome from the alternative. But is the rapporteur also prepared to look at phasing out the current drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea, and thus to speed up the phasing-in of the green alternative, perhaps within 5 to 8 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123332	The Climate Council has just been able to assess and give a clear recommendation to the government not to launch the eighth tender round in relation to North Sea oil. And it goes without saying that if all countries continued to expand as they planned, there will simply be too much oil extraction in the world. So the Radical Left is hard on us to believe that no new permits should be granted, or else we are on the targets of the agreements we have historically made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123408	The next brief remark is to Mrs Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123412	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for the speech. I'd like to ask you a little bit about this around CO2 what we can understand now is that the money you get in from a CO2 has been out suggesting that you spend this money from a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123503	Well, the Radical Left agrees with the green organisations and youth parties and economists and experts and entrepreneurs and the trade union movement who are crying out for the introduction of a CO2 so far, the Social Democrats and the government have unfortunately stood firm not to listen to the green organisations in this area. The Radical Left, as part of our green policy, proposes that we should of course introduce this CO2 so, as the Prime Minister has indicated, when we have to negotiate a green tax reform, we have to look at the overall tax base and both ensure that money is returned to ordinary employees and ensure that companies do not move out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123609	The government has not rejected the need for a green tax reform at some point and, with all due respect, not everyone is in complete agreement. It may well be that everyone agrees that we should change our taxes, but there is a huge difference between what people think we should do with the revenue we collect. And if you choose to use a part that I understand you will on corporate tax reductions, there will surely be less left to be able to secure the social balance that we would also like to have in the tax system of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123645	Well, I have to repeat that all green organisations support a CO2 so again: it has been a shame to follow, precisely on this point, a government that is very foot-to-mouth in that area. After all, we need a green tax restructuring that will both introduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123723	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612123733	Thank you. When I read the energy policy statement, I will actually be a little proud, because I think it underlines how much Danish climate policy has actually moved over the years, both domestic but also in the world. In this way, I think that the energy policy statement, just like the climate policy statement, is a fantastic overview of everything we do. I also think it places two points on the fact that the Danish climate action is useful in the world. Sometimes in here questions are asked whether what Denmark does is of any use at all. I really do not think that it is possible to question the experience we have had in Denmark, among other things, by listing all the authorities working together in the energy policy statement. With a high level of security of supply and a high level of renewable energy, it not only benefits the Danes and the Danish conversion, but also benefits the rest of the world, also all the way to China and Vietnam. There is no doubt that the green transformation of the energy system here in Denmark has not happened overnight, nor has it happened over the last year. Therefore, there is good reason to be happy that there have been forward-looking energy policyers and climate politicians generations before us, but also that Danish companies have seen a growth potential and a company in, for example. to create technology that saves energy. But there is no doubt that if you want to be a green power in the world forward-looking, as I and the SF believe Denmark should be, you cannot rest on the laurels and you must also set new goals. After all, this is what we do with our common climate legislation, which we repeatedly place two lines below is the direction of Danish climate policy for the next 10 years. After all, it has already put a significant print out into the world. There was no doubt about that when we were at the climate summit last time. After all, Denmark was awarded a prize for being the country that, like it, was at the forefront of the climate struggle, precisely because there had been a broad and ambitious climate law. It is just as we can see in the report that the world in the energy sector is not exactly on the road to the Paris agreement's ambition of maximum 2 degrees temperature development and preferably 11⁄2 degrees. In fact, I think it's also interesting because it refers to • now it gets a bit nerdy, but I know that the energy rapporteurs in here are just as nerdy as I am • The Production Gap Report from 2019 where they write that with among other things. The development of coal power, which the world sees, cannot be achieved in accordance with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is precisely why Danish exports, also of the marine wind potential we actually have in the Danish marine area, are quite important. I also think that there is another important point which interferes slightly with the debate we have here in Denmark, and that is that there is a fundamental need to reduce both the demand for oil and natural gas reserves, but also to start addressing the supply of them. This is precisely highlighted as one of the areas in which the countries of the world need to tackle. That is why I have to pass on a call to the climate minister, whom he has heard repeated to skinlessness gradually, namely that going in and canceling the eighth round of invitations to tender is in fact one of the tools that is being sought in relation to being a green country of leadership internationally, but also one of the tools that we need to use. We cannot only reduce the demand for oil; we must also reduce supply, i.e. how many reserves we draw up. This is stated in one of the reports to which the Minister's statement itself refers. There is no doubt that if we are to continue here in the Danish transition and deliver on our 70-percent target, we cannot just stay in the world of the energy settlement and in the world of yesterday. We need to look at the need for electrification, as other parties have also mentioned, in relation to how much we need to electrify in order to achieve the 70-percent target. After all, it is both in transport and in the heat supply, so more action needs to be taken. At the same time, however, we also need to be even sharper on our energy savings efforts and to ensure that much more of something that can produce green electricity is put up. Of course, these are offshore wind turbines, which we include. have been mentioned, both those who stand alone, but also those who may be in an energy island, but they are also landwind mills, they are also solar cells • it's all around. I'm actually kind of happy about the discussion with the Left when we do it cheapest and best in this green transition. We know very well in here that it is still the windmills that are the cheapest way to produce green electricity. So there is no doubt that there is good reason to still wear the work clothes, and therefore it is also very important that we get some ambitious agreements made here before the summer holiday around our energy conversion, compared to how much we need to save on it and how much we need to have more of the green power and that it also needs many more places than we know it today. Part of promoting that we use the right energy is also to look at the total green taxes. Therefore, SF considers that it should be seen in context. There are some places we have to turn up, that's among other things. on CO2 on the electricity tax, on surplus heat, etc. I would just like to say that it is absolutely crucial for us that when we have to make such a green tax change, those who are left with the bill, if there is not enough money in that conversion, are not Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who has a normal job, for example. as a social and health assistant. It's gonna be the richest Danes. It'll be a green top treasure if it's up to us. And that is all I have to admit: there is a classic dividing line between the Radical Left, which will provide tax relief from the liberal basebook, and our proposal to create a green top tax. But let us take that discussion when the opportunity arises. I am pleased that the Prime Minister's government has recognised that we need to tackle a green tax reform, also in relation to the tax system. We appreciate that, and we have also asked for it in the SF. So summing up, we have a lot to do. There is no doubt that, in order to deliver on our climate legislation, we need to deliver a more ambitious effort in energy policy, but I would also like to emphasise that if we are to continue to have a great international section in the energy policy statement, we must also constantly strengthen our international work on the green transition on all fronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124457	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. It's for mr. Carsten Kissmeyer in the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124502	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that we will still need a little oil in the years to come, and then I would like to ask: which countries will supply that oil, and how does the rapporteur view the challenge that may also come to Denmark's balance of payments in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124524	When we talk about ending the eighth round of invitations to tender, it is because it is a round of invitations to tender that goes beyond the agreements already in place on the North Sea. I do not think that is the rapporteur's intention, but the debate may sound like the SF is in favour of stopping oil and natural gas extraction tomorrow. That is not the case at all. We are fully behind the tendering rounds that have been made in the past and the extraction that is out in the North Sea. Therefore, there will also be an extraction of oil and natural gas. It is just not the case today that Denmark does not import oil for our consumption. That consumption will all be equal in the future when we are going to be climate neutral, and the Left agrees that we, for example, are going to be less in the future. do not need a lot of diesel and petrol cars to drive around and do not need oil pine, so we also need to have a marked reduction in demand. But we're talking about something out there in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124627	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124629	I understand, then, that the rapporteur thinks we should import skiff oil and that we should import from countries that we are really a little nervous about getting into our pockets. That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: does it not matter to the rapporteur that we have a certain degree of security of supply ourselves after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124655	It is the case that, out of the oil consumption we have today, there is an infinitely small part that does not go to, for example, the oil consumption. transport or the like, so it is a very, very small share that will go to, for example. lubrication oil. At the same time, there are companies that are actually working to take plastic and break it back to the oil form again. That is why, of course, we also need to develop technologies that develop new fuels that are liquid and that can replace the oil we know. So maybe it's too much to say that it's just skifing oil or skifing gas that's the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124728	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612124742	Now it is an energy debate and a question about what the Government's future energy policy initiatives are seen in the light of the energy policy statement. So far I have received a simple reply from the Minister, who was not quite clear, because we have an energy agreement which defines that we need two offshore wind farms more than we have set in motion. There I understand that this is something that the government will involve in future negotiations and not just translate it and comply with the energy agreement that we have. In addition, we then have the technology-neutral offer for 2020, where it is a little uncertain what is happening. This is really a pity, because the cheapest energy expansion is to keep a technology-neutral supply and get some low prices for new plants for solar, landwind and coastal mills. And if it is such that it is difficult to implement it because of a sacred figure in the energy agreement, which the Danish People's Party might hold on to, you must be able to keep a technology-neutral supply, which then includes solar cells, coastal mills, wave power or other. We shall then have a final discussion on this. I think we should achieve this by the summer break, because if we are to make a call for tenders by 2020, a timetable must soon be drawn up for this. So I think there is a bottom-up task in getting it concluded by 26 June. Otherwise, I would say that Enhedslisten is very pleased that this goal of a CO2 by 2030 has come so far. It was something that Enhedslisten chose to join his climate plan. We listened to the green organisations, and then, after a climate election, we negotiated it and got it into the understanding paper, and then it received even more support in the form of the Climate Act. Our version of a 70-percent CO 2 So we've seen a balanced way to do it so the bill doesn't end with the poorest. After all, some negotiations have started, and I find it very worrying that in the work on the first climate action plan, the Minister has chosen a McKinsey-inspired liberalisation campaign against the municipal waste sector. The main focus of these negotiations on the climate action plans should be CO2 When we are going to achieve CO2, it is therefore important to bring forward some target figures which, like indicating what the energy needs to lift, and if it is not going to be very high, we end up with agriculture and the transport sector contributing a great deal. And there I think it will be harder to achieve objectives in agreement with the government than in the field of energy. That is why energy and the forthcoming negotiations are extremely important, and it would be nice to get a little more figures on where we are going. That's 19 million. t CO 2 t that can be reached there. Maybe it could be a higher number. I think it will be exciting to see what the government is playing with in the field of energy. And we can achieve a great deal if we make the fastest possible transition to more renewable energy. If we look at district heating, there is a huge potential for conversion. We must reduce the Danish amount of waste incinerated, we must stop importing waste and we must phase out the imported biomass. Denmark has been driving too far down a blind road. Biomass is a transitional fuel which is mistakenly regarded as completely CO2 Denmark is a pioneering country in terms of district heating systems, but we are not pioneering when we look at the heat sources. The Enhedslisten requires an ambitious climate action plan for district heating where large heat pumps and geothermals are given priority, where the district heating area is growing and where fossil gas is displaced in the areas where gas is fired. At the same time, we need to find some balance between a sustainable CO2 We have a huge export potential with our knowledge of efficient district heating systems. It is good that the global outlook fills in the energy policy statement. The solutions we develop in Denmark can inspire other countries and ensure increased exports of energy technology. I think it is very good that the EUDP funds, which the previous government cut down on, are being recovered. We make an incredible amount of money out of that. Some misinvestments are taking place in Denmark: Viking Link and Baltic Pipe over 20 billion. kr. Danish consumers will pay. However, there are other necessary investments in the Danish electricity network that need to be made to deal with the increased renewable energy from electricity and the increased electricity consumption from electric cars and heat pumps. We need good governance, an intelligent power grid that can be targeted at getting one million electric cars to be charged at the right time, and heat pumps to run at the best times. The future is not for fossil energy. That is why the eighth round of invitations to tender in the North Sea must be dropped. And why is it that the oil industry in Denmark can get free CO2 It needs to be changed. I think that in this matter of North Sea oil we really should listen to the Climate Council and the parliamentary basis. We have to find a solution, so we drop the eighth round of invitations to tender. Enhedslisten is like the Climate Council and many other supporters of CO2 It will have a positive effect and can be arranged in such a way that revenue supports the conversion of energy systems and promotes CO2 There is no question that it is just such an extra tax; it is a conversion tool. We are facing a change in energy efficiency from New Year. We will keep in mind that the new model brings with it the expected energy savings. A shift in taxes and CO2 We in Denmark have a long tradition of a popular commitment to the transition to renewable energy, and we have co-owned energy companies that are still the backbone of our electricity system, which contribute to the green transition, ensure a sky high level of security of supply and are ready to expand the electricity grid under good conditions. We have municipalities that have higher ambitions than the government for how quickly a community can become CO2 We have many general housing associations that are happy that the renovation queue in the Landsbygningfonden is now being dismantled and there will be the possibility of a green screening with a broad environmental impact. But it is a pity that in the negotiations we had, the Minister of Energy did not agree that we should create better conditions for solar cells in housing associations. We have too little power from solar cells in the overall energy system. Why not allow residents of general housing to participate in the sustainable conversion? And we have other popular movements that are impatient and require faster conversion of energy systems and faster CO2 I miss that they are visible here outside Christiansborg. We are at a strange time when lobbyists are driving on, while the popular not really flowers as much as it has done in the past. The Danish Parliament has a major task and an obligation to ensure that legislation and framework conditions promote sustainable change and that the climate action plans are made in such a way that everyone can participate. The Enhedslisten looks forward to the government's initiatives to implement the 2018 Energy Agreement, and that it is also working quickly to live up to the government understanding paper and to achieve ambitious climate action plans. I think that, in the end, we should focus a little on whether this corona health crisis, which will then turn into an economic crisis, makes some people and some companies think and act differently, just as it can be the start of more climate actions. Well, what do people do when they can't take their holidays as usual? Is it then to have a good holiday in Denmark, which is significantly cheaper, and then you can afford to energy-renovate your house? Or is it that you can afford to re-evaluate your transport patterns and your transport consumption and perhaps start saving up for the first electric car? Sometimes, when you experience crises, you stop, and maybe it's the beginning of acting differently. I think that we should be very open to look at what it is for a reboot of Denmark, which is being prioritised, and whether that reboot can also help to ensure that our energy area becomes more sustainable. Finally, I would like to say that we are in a completely different dialogue today than a year ago, because we have a different government. But we still need to see some more action from the new government before we are completely satisfied in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612125800	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Orla Østerby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612125813	Thank you for that, President, and congratulations to the Minister for the 45 years! After all, it has been a year since the government was supposed to find its feet, and unfortunately I think that too little has happened on the energy conciliation that we entered into in June 2018. After all, it was an energy settlement which was historic because it was all the parties in the Folketing who were involved. It was an energy settlement where 19 billion were set aside. kr. It's never happened before. What is good about it is that all parties agreed to that work. In the Conservative People's Party, we lack to take care of the decisions that were in the energy reconciliation, and this is a task that is pressing because we only have 10 years to 2030, where we have to achieve a very, very ambitious target called 70-percent reduction, as the Climate Act says. In the energy settlement from the summer of 2018, we placed three offshore wind farms of up to 3,000 MW. There were solar cells and also technology-neutral tenders for wind turbines for 4.2 billion. kr., and we placed pools in different fields for total and total of the 19 billion. kr. In Lemvig, the municipality in which I live, a local plan of 49 hectares is being drawn up right now to bring energy into the North Sea on Thor. So out in real life we now see what Thor brings with him when it gets started. The story of Thor is that if we are lucky, it is ready to run at the end of 2027. So if the other two parks are to start by 2030, the minister is busy. The Thor plant also makes it obvious that power-to-x can also be connected in energy terms. Someone's doing that. It's got the most media talk over here in Copenhagen; that's the way it is. But I believe that in West Jutland, too, we can succeed in getting such a production up and running. I can say that at the northern coastal wind farm, construction is under way. It's about to start. Overall, we see, at least in West Jutland, that the energy settlement is being put into operation, and now we have to move on. I hope that power-to-x will be an example of how we can solve a lot over there on the transport side and that the wind farms will be able to help. I am not saying that energy islands will not become anything for the time being, but I dare say here that the energy islands will not become anything by 2030. That is why we are busy completing this energy conciliation, and when you reach a settlement, it is because you want to complete it, and I assume the Minister will. If we look at the other sector, many things have been mentioned here, which I will not repeat. I just want to say that in this we are also working on a phasing out of natural gas. I am just asking the Minister the question, and I think we need a debate on it. We know that there is a heating plant that is now in the process of establishing itself with wood chips. I was at a conference which I also think the Minister was involved in, where there were experts who told us that natural gas has a somewhat smaller CO2 so we also need to have a discussion on what is the most sensible thing to do about these low-hanging fruits, and I think we owe it to each other to discuss that too. So far, we've found the 2 million. of the total of 19 million We have to find, and what lies in the text that we have put forward today, including from the Conservatives, is that the Folketing instructs the government, as part of ongoing negotiations on climate agreement, to present the Government's expectations for reduction in the individual areas. We need to find out how much energy we need to deliver and how much energy we need, for example. transport and agriculture must deliver, so that we know what we are negotiating. That is why it is important for the Minister and the government to get together and agree on what kind of strategy we have: what is it that the negotiators can count on when they sit and do climate negotiations, and what is it that we can count on when we sit and do energy negotiations? I think we owe each other that much to the government. This is what the Danish Parliament wants to impose on the government. And I am glad that we have come so far now that we have such a text. Because it is simply necessary to move forward that we do not work blindly, but that we know what kind of cereals we are going for. Then I would say that we in Conservatives also believe that there is great potential in exploiting surplus heat. We can also see in the Stock Exchange today that the director of Grundfos, Mads Nipper, and the director of Danfoss, Kim Fausing, suggest that a grant pool be set up in the form of two pools of 500 million. kr. They also propose that energy efficiency be achieved in public buildings by 3%. a year. This shows that the professions are also ready to deliver in this area, and it is very, very important that we address it. Then I would like to say that I also have a request to make to the rapporteurs here today. Well, we have decided Vesterhav South and Vesterhav North, and they are now being set up. I can't open my local newspaper without a huge hernia compared to windmills along the coast, and up by me it's of course Vesterhav Nord, it's all about. I think it is important that we parliamentary politicians and parties also say that the wind turbines are going up, and that cannot be discussed. I would like to say that every day in the local media it will be discussed when this can now be stopped. And there I think it would be a good thing if the rapporteurs and the parties here made it absolutely clear that the North Sea and the West Sea South have been decided in 2012 and that they are driving. It is the case that the debate is running out there and it is running very, very hard, but I think it is important that we, as politicians, stand by what has been decided here in the Parliamentary Chamber and also in relation to the West Sea South and the West Sea North, because it is part of our energy policy, and that is part of achieving this 70-percent reduction, which we all agree we have to achieve. Finally, I would like to say to the government and to the Minister that energy policy in what we are working on here has a crucial role to play in achieving the 70%. That is why I hope that very, very quickly the speed of implementation of our energy reconciliation from the summer of 2018 will be speeded up, because it is absolutely crucial that we reach the 70%. If we do not do this, we will be calling for reductions in transport and on agriculture, which we cannot defend. So we stand as energy rapporteurs with a great responsibility to implement the energy reconciliation we made in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130716	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130721	The last was sweet music in your ears, and it was all about the speech. We certainly also believe that we should take advantage of the opportunities offered by the energy conciliation to develop offshore wind turbines. Now it's the case that since this climate law is so widely based in the Danish Parliament, we all have our hands on the hot plate. So instead of discussing what is right and wrong, it is exciting to hear how the different parties think we should proceed. That is why my unolenic question concerns the North Sea oil. In other words, we have now agreed on 70% reduction, and what significance does the rapporteur think it will have for the extraction of oil and gas in the Danish part of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130809	After all, the oil industry is based on the market and on supply. I am hearing the debate on this, but one can only say that we will also need the oil product after 2030, even after 2040 and also after 2050. So the question is: Should it be from the Danish North Sea? Or should it be from Saudi Arabia or from the United States where you have a larger CO2 or would it be more sensible to do so in Denmark? We must have that discussion with each other, but I would just like to point out that, together with that, we have an income of between 20 and 25 billion. kr. So we are faced with some dilemmas on which we must have a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130913	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl the word again? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130918	Yes, that is absolutely right, so it is not a discussion, it is more a debate or a dialogue, and in that dialogue I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur will help to wonder whether we are really going to make tenders that go all the way through the year 2050, when we should actually have stopped extracting fossil energy throughout the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612130943	I hear that there are some who believe that it will be completely over by 2050. And if it is, then nobody needs it, and then it cannot be sold, and it will die of itself. I don't think it's gonna happen that way. I think it will take a little longer than some people expect before we can do without the petroleum products. It is not just fuel we use it; we use it in many other areas as well. But I think we should have a debate on that and discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131016	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131019	Thank you. The rapporteur called for support for the implementation of the Western Sea South and the Western Sea North. I think that was a very good part of the speech, and I would like to sign off on saying that Enhedslisten supports the two projects. I am also aware that, as stated in the energy policy statement, we are re-examining whether some of the mills could be a little further out. Well, that's what Vattenfall has to do after they've won the assignment. So I don't want to interfere with that part of it. Then I also note that the rapporteur of the Conservatives is impatient about the next two offshore wind farms, which we have agreed on in 2018, and which we are waiting for to be implemented. And following that, I would like to hear from the rapporteur: if it ends up with a technology-neutral offer by 2020 that can only accommodate solar projects and coastal offshore wind turbines and perhaps in theory wave power and hence not land wind, is it a technology-neutral supply that the Conservatives think we should implement this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131124	I see it as an impossibility that we do not have land wind in the technology-neutral supply. There is a great need for this. I must also say in relation to the technology-neutral, that I think we also owe a debate on the location of solar cells. When you drive in the quite country, at least when you transport yourself from Lemvig Municipality to Christiansborg once a week, you see some energy installations on solar cells that absolutely do not decorate in the landscape. They're taking up a lot of land. And I think we're in the process of setting up some energy plants that somebody will later regret. And I think it is a pity that we are not putting industrial buildings at risk any more, that is to say, going to industrial buildings and using them instead. They're not too pretty already, and the solar cells can't make them less pretty, but the landscape seems to me to have a flaw in what you're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131234	Thank you. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131235	But I look forward to it being discussed at an energy conciliation meeting with the Minister before the summer recess, i.e. whether you can afford to keep an offer without a landwind. And I understand that the rapporteur would like this to be included. Around those reflections on where solar cells should be, I would like to say that I would have liked to have seen a housing agreement being drawn up which opened the door to more people entering the renovated roofs of housing associations. Because we actually have companies in Denmark that are skilled at building integrated solar cells, and there is an export potential in that. So I really share the rapporteur's view that solar cells should also be up elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131313	Yes, and it has to be said at all that our land-based energy production has the great challenge that we have so much need of popular support. Well, if it's not there, it's a fight against yes, windmills! And that is why I think we need to look at this once again in the conciliation circle with regard to windmills and the compensation we give to the people who live close to us, so that we simply reconstruct the way we think and perhaps allow us to set up some large windmills at such a distance from people that everyone can be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131408	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your statement. We are discussing the energy policy statement 2020, but it might almost as well be called the climate policy statement. According to the report, the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy is fast taking place here in Denmark. Since 1990 we have reduced CO2 It is abroad, China and Africa and elsewhere that emissions are not reduced. The explanation shows that global emissions of energy-related climate gases reached record levels in 2018. In 2019 it has been stagnant, especially driven by a fall in the emissions of the countries. This confirms what we have been saying in New Citizens all along: it is no use that we in Denmark set excessively high reduction targets if other countries continue to increase emissions. It is outside Denmark that it would seriously put something down for CO2 Why should we in Denmark further set foot on the accelerator in relation to the green switch? After all, we are converting both in private households and in industry etc. I think it's a good idea. The climate debate is largely based on emotions. Feelings are initiated because they feel good, but without having a real effect. This alone serves to enable Denmark to show some fine figures for CO2 in isolation. Denmark must set targets for CO2 which are at the level of the countries with which we compete. Denmark should not lead with greater reduction targets than other countries. Denmark's contribution to total CO2 economic growth is the solution, not the problem. Stopping economic growth is the wrong way to deal with the problem. Research and development of profitable technologies is the only solution at global level. We talk a lot about renewable energy in Denmark: wind energy, solar cells, wave energy. If you look at the global figures, there is yet another source of energy that takes up a lot but is never mentioned in Denmark. It's nuclear power. The report shows that 28%. electricity in the EU in 2019 was produced by nuclear power stations and nuclear power will also play a major role in the future. That is why we in Denmark should take a stand against the taboo that nuclear power has become. In any case, we should focus on research into nuclear energy. It is not a good idea to exclude from the outset a technology which will certainly also be important for the future. New Citizens are open to reducing CO2 This means, among other things, that the reduction of CO2 Thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131722	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612131732	Thank you. If we are to have a green transition in Denmark, we must realise that this is going to happen at the expense of something. The idea that we can become a richer country that consumes more money in all areas, while at the same time we have a green transition, we must, as we do, move towards realism around. One of the areas where realism is most lacking is the question of what we are going to spend money on in the public sector. Should we continue to have the ambition that any economic room for manoeuvre that comes into the treasury should be spent on more public expenditure, more transfer income, more public employees, or can the economic space also be used to create the conditions for a green transition? Many parties here in the Folketing have gone to elections, also for several elections, with the view that the big question in Danish politics was whether we should spend more money in the public sector or whether we should have tax cuts. That question is sometimes topical, but when we talk about the green transition, it is also very timely that we should decide with ourselves whether we should continue to spend even more money in the public sector, or whether some of the money can instead be used to create the conditions for a green transition. We actually have a party here in the Danish Parliament, which directs itself to the Enhedslisten - the red-greens, but that party must also at some point choose in relation to the green transition, whether on specific issues one prefers to pursue red politics or whether one prefers to pursue green politics. The billion that will be spent on hiring more educators, for example, cannot be used at the same time to facilitate the green transition, so there can sometimes be a choice between socialism, which some of the parties in the Folketing are in favour of, and so green conversion. This is evident in several cases. For many years we have been talking about how taxation should be on those cars that have no emissions, electric cars, hydrogen vehicles, etc., and we are taking small steps at a time to exempt electric cars from general registration tax, because no party dares to take the consequence that we must stop taxing green cars that have no emissions in the future. However, we will have to take a position on this when the Transport Commission, the Eldrup Commission, has played out whether we should continue to have the idea that, at some point, green cars should be phased into the ordinary registration fee, or whether we should accept that we miss the registration tax billions from green cars in the future, because we would like to drive a green development for passenger transport, but with the consequence that there will then be a few fewer billion to spend in the public sector. Another point on which we are faced with this dilemma is the excessive tax on electricity in Denmark. There is no doubt whatsoever that if we want to electrify Danish society, we cannot continue to have the world's highest electricity tax in Denmark. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. Looking at successful electrification and higher use of electricity in other countries, it is of course combined with that one does not have as high an electricity tax as in Denmark. We talk a lot about the spread of electric cars in Norway, and it is driven by some favourable conditions when buying the electric car, but we also have that at home, because it is also driven by some favourable conditions in relation to access to certain lanes for electric cars, but it is also driven by the fact that electricity in Norway costs only a quarter for the consumer of what electricity costs in Denmark. The electricity tax also brings many billions to the Danish Treasury, and we must make it clear to ourselves that if we want to electrify Danish society, we must find a way to avoid charging such a high electricity tax. Finally, there is the last element that shows this dilemma between whether you want to be red or green, and this is about the possibility of charging a general tax on emissions of climate gases in Denmark, to a particular extent CO 2 It is possible to do so, and you should probably do so to some extent, because it is difficult to see how else you get the most effective reduction in CO 2 2 emissions. We have been happy to accept the radical proposal, and it might as well have come from us that some of the money should be spent on lowering corporation tax. The company tax is undoubtedly a tax that has a high symbolist political character on the left in the Folketing, but as in the real world, where economists and business leaders and sensible politicians travel, it also has the effect of reducing investment drive in Denmark, because the taxation of returns on investments is higher than it should be. After all, we all agree that if business managers, business owners withdraw profits from their businesses and use it to buy a large Mercedes or a nice house, they must be taxed on the income they get, as everyone else does, but corporation tax is, of course, a tax on the money that stays in the company. We want to make it attractive to invest in companies in Denmark by having a competitive corporate tax. So let us also agree that if we introduce a tax on CO2 Summa summarum, we cannot go seriously to a green transformation of Danish society if we go scared to reforms of the public sector and the Danish labour market. Reform scare sets the ground for a green transformation of Danish society, and there has to be a time when the left in Denmark also discovers that there is sometimes a choice between having an ambitious green transition and then • to get the ambitious green transition • to be willing to reform our public systems, our public spending and our labour market in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612132517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612132528	Thank you, President. This is an exciting debate. It is not only exciting that we have to give the world's most ambitious climate legislation to go on, it is also exciting that it is such a broad majority, so we have to do it together as some parties which, ideologically speaking, are deeply divided on everyday life. It's obvious that everyone's gonna cut a heel and chop a toe. We have to, because we have a goal that we have achieved together, and we have to achieve that. It's a basic task. I should like to begin by commenting on the energy policy statement which is the basis of this debate. There are many good things in it that point forward, for example. electricity consumption will be 100%. based on renewable energy already in 2028. And it is also very good that there is already room for ten gigawatts of wind farms. So we can actually in principle offer a gigawatt offshore wind farm per year. Years up to 2030. I know it's a tough shot, but we can do that. Then it is also good that a quarter of the world's electricity is now produced globally from renewable energy. It is good that the global increase in emissions of CO2 then it is bad that 840 million people, including 600 million in Africa, still have no access to electricity. When they get it, it has to be from renewable energy, otherwise CO2 It is good that regional cooperation on renewable energy hubs in the North Sea has the potential to cover 20%. of Europe's electricity consumption in 2040. But it is bad that Baltic Pipe has been finally granted permission from the North Sea across Denmark and on to Poland. Well, can it be stopped in any way? Why should Poland be helped to move from coal to fossil gas when we should help them move from coal to renewable energy? It is also good that wind and sun now cover half of our electricity consumption, and it is very good that there are now very low support needs in the production of land winds and solar cells. It's actually starting to run around. These were some cuts from the report, which, overall, shows that there is some reason for optimism. But now history has shown that every time the UN climate panel comes up with a new big report, it often turns out that we are even more busy than we thought. That is why we also expect it to be necessary to tighten up our 70-percent target in five years' time when the targets are to be revised in the Climate Act. That is why it makes good sense right now to launch such ambitious initiatives that we are rather in some places swinging over to some of the 70%. In any case, we would think that would be timely care. In general, we would like to praise the climate partnership for energy and supply as well as the NGOs' proposal catalogue • A green restart, published on 12 May. We can support almost everything in those publications. I would like to comment on initiatives that have come from the partnership and NGOs in relation to the reduction of CO2 We believe, for example, that it is very wise to implement a green tax reform that puts a firm, high price on climate gases, in other words the Climate Council and the Economic Council and researchers around the world consistently recommend a pollution tax on climate gases. It is for all sectors, but of course here in particular energy. And some of the things that are necessary here are also that we turn up the conversion of renewable energy and the dismantling of fossil fuels. That is, for example, the case. within the area of buildings. Danish buildings are still heated by thousands of oil guys and natural gas guys. They need to be phased out. Therefore, focus should be on switching from natural gas heating to district heating, heat pumps or hybrid heat pumps. It can be at a faster pace than we have been hoping for so far, even according to the wishes of the Nordic People's Centre for Renewable Energy. In the alternative at all, we believe that priority should be given to the greenest projects for the renovation of general housing in the Landsbygningsfonden, as the NGOs also say in their proposals. Then we must start planning up to ten offshore wind farms until 2030. This has been the policy of the alternative for a long time now. As the process of building a offshore wind farm takes up to 8 years, we therefore need to invest now As far as wind turbines are concerned, we believe that we can follow the expansion described in the climate partnership for energy and supply report, which corresponds to 3.6 GW up to 2030. Then there's another thing we're about to bet on very much, and it's geothermal. This must seriously go beyond the ramp for the next 10 years, and this requires some administrative changes and a solid support system. And geothermal is just to decode the strange word that's about two to three kilometers down the subway, the water is 70 degrees hot. After all, it is a fantastic source of heat that we are about to drill so much. Solar cells must deliver ten times as much electricity by 2030 as today, also according to the climate partnership assessment. In particular, there will be large land installations and, to a lesser extent, roof-mounted installations. In addition to the ten-fold increase in roofing facilities, the alternative would now like to see more roofing facilities in addition to the landworks, because there may be advantages in building installations which may not be directly socio-economically optimal but offer other advantages, for example. direct consumption and local charging, storage of electricity for electric cars as well as the educational aspect it creates to stay in a house with solar cells that even generates the house's electricity. According to the climate partnership, biogas production should triple from today's level. That development supports the alternative as a minimum. I mean, biogas production has many advantages, among others. better use of manure in agriculture, less degassing from manure tanks, and finally biogas is an optimal form of energy regulation which is becoming increasingly needed, i.e. an energy form that is not volatile, an energy form that can be stored and used when it is used, for example. is difficult to use wind energy. Finally, the well-built Danish natural gas network makes the biogas extra valuable because it can be distributed via this network, and the upgrading of the biogas to the grid releases concentrated CO2 The transport must release the tape to fossil energy. Gasoline, diesel, marine oil, aviation fuel must be phased out by transport and replaced by electricity as a driving force with batteries, hydrogen, biogas and a number of other forms of energy as stocks. The extension of the charging line must continue, and a number of other instruments must make more Danes choose electric cars. At the same time, however, we must get more co-driving and sharing car systems going, because it is untenable, especially in urban areas, for one car to transport one person. We need more super bike paths and e-bikes should be further promoted. And then, of course, we need an electrification of the network. These are some of the proposals that the alternative has to reduce CO2 and that is, of course, because we have to recognise that the world's most ambitious climate legislation is not ambitious enough. We're gonna raise the bar to 80%. In 2025, we hope, in the alternative, that the parties of the Folketing will be involved in the discussion. I also see it from this debate that there are a number of parties that are susceptible to a discussion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612133400	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Therefore, there is now room for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to respond to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612133410	Thank you for that, and thank you for all the nice words on the occasion of my birthday. There have been very many, I think, good speeches and exciting considerations. In fact, I also think that the political positions of this debate have become a little bit more cleverer, because what we can fairly say has happened in the last year is that, contrary to some of the debates we have had in the past in this Chamber, where we have probably been able to say very much that it was they who were green, against those who were black, if you are a little harsh in the rhetoric, then everyone is practically green now, at least rhetorically. That's really, really good. Since we have such broad support for our climate legislation, I think it is even possible to say that it goes beyond rhetoric in its intentions. So that's good, too. The question is, of course, how one agrees when it comes to concrete action. I think that there have been good signals from virtually all parties from up here today, and that is why I am of course very much looking forward to the negotiations we will have over the next few weeks. A lot of people have noticed that we're in a hurry. We have, it is no secret that we have been delayed in the process because of the corona crisis we are facing. I also think I have to say that if I look around the world or just around Europe among the countries with which we normally cooperate and compare ourselves, including those who are very ambitious in the area of climate change, then I certainly do not know of anyone who is actually able to make such extensive negotiations as we are in the middle of right now, despite the fact that there is a crisis. So I think we can be proud that we here in Denmark are able to do so, even though we are in the middle of a crisis that is about life and death and many serious issues for our country. So we still have resources and energy and political will to sit down and try to agree on some very important decisions. So I hope that spirit will also be taken into the negotiating room. Let's say for the sake of good order, and I'm kindly that everyone in this room is green. Let's say so. However, compared with the political differences, I think it is fair to say that there are some who are green and red and others who are green and blue. I think that has also come out very clearly today. One of the areas where it comes out very clearly is, of course, when we discuss CO2 Some have said: Why is it that one does not just introduce a CO2 Everyone agrees, red and blue agree, the CEPOS agrees with the trade union movement. I'd like to give you some advice. When such claims are made and it almost sounds too good to be true, it is enough because it is too good to be true. That's enough, because of course it's a gross simplistic. Of course it is because you talk about completely different things. Everyone agrees that this can be an effective means of action, yes, yes. It can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an effective tool, it can be an I also believe that everyone will agree that if you have a toolbox, a real physical toolbox, then a hammer can be a quite effective tool. But if you have a canyon hammer, there is quite a difference between whether you need it as an effective tool, because you want to use it to pull nails out, or whether you want to turn it over and use it to beat nails in. It is the same tool, and everyone agrees that it is right and good and that you have to use it right in the situation you are in. Yes, yes, but if you are in completely different situations, it is completely different cases. When the Radicals now openly and honestly say that they will use the proceeds of a CO2 For what happens? Yes, we are taxing something that we would like to get rid of, namely CO2, which means that the revenue generated by the Treasury will be considerably reduced, and there is only one place to take it, and that is the Treasury, it is well-being and everything else. The revenue that will then be generated, which will gradually be reduced, must therefore also be used, in addition to it, to provide tax relief. It is a very large redistribution in Denmark that we then talk about if necessary. It is fair to have that position, it is a legitimate position, but one cannot, on the next day, say that one agrees with all the green organisations and the extreme left in Danish politics, because one simply is not. These are two completely different models. What does CO2 mean Everyone wants a CO2 Fine, I can deliver that. We have had this for 30 years in Denmark. We have 2 What is perhaps a little more right to say and what I think people want is a climate tax in which we take all greenhouse gases and which not only covers the parts of CO2 It is also interesting to hear whether you think that tax should also cover those parts of our society covered by quota trading. It may well be that it has to do so already today, but should it stand instead? Then the argument that it should be the most cost-effective falls, I guess. I think that most textbooks discuss what is most cost-effective: taxes or quota trading. But I don't think most people still think it's quota trading, because in the quota trading system you can make a cap and trade that you can set a ceiling on how much you can actually reduce, and you are sure that you reach, whereas, if it's a charge that you're trying to impose to achieve the same goal, you should count on some economists who can figure it out and figure out exactly how to set the charge exactly as it should be, across sectors, to reach it. You don't have that question in quota trading. On top of that, it has the effect of converting you more quickly as a company, selling your allowances and spending that money to further support a conversion. So I must at least warn very much against moving away from quota trading as a principle, especially in European legislation. If so, that question should also be answered. In the government, we are not opposed to using taxes and taxes. These are really, really important instruments, but it is clear that we have to think about how to do it. Right now, in the midst of a crisis, it is probably not the time to add additional expenditure, we believe, to the business community and to the citizens of Denmark. It is also clear that a general climate tax, a general CO2 It obviously hits much harder if you have little money in our society if you are poor in our society when ordinary consumer goods may even increase quite significantly in price. Then there are some who will say: well then we can just take in the revenue we get from CO2 that there are just two problems with: firstly, the Radicals have just spent the money on corporate tax reductions, and secondly, we should like to come to a situation where that money does not come into the box at all because we are taxing something that we are abolishing. That is why I have allowed myself to say in the public debate: yes, I can see the idea of CO2 Yes, it is clear that there is little understanding of climate policy if you have not understood that it is probably a very good idea to have a price to pollute. But it is too unmanageable to say that CEPOS and Greenpeace agree, and that is why it is probably a good idea when the truth is that CEPOS and Greenpeace do not agree at all on anything but that a hammer is a good tool. They don't agree on whether to use it to pull out nails or knock nails. There are other tools in the toolbox, fortunately. We'll get to over the next few weeks presumably and hopefully already in the next few days to present results. We very much hope to be able to present a whole new reform of our waste sector... something that has been tried for 20 years without success... where we can significantly reduce the burning of plastic in Denmark, recycle considerably more. It will be very, very important for our ability to achieve the objectives we need to achieve. We've talked a lot about wind islands here today, luckily. This is a huge vision for Denmark. Some people have asked a little about how ambitious it really is. Well, this is beyond the Thor project, which is on track and which is coming. So in addition to that, there's 4 GW. Today Denmark has 1.7 GW in total from offshore winds. There will be 4 extras, not in 2045, but by 2030, in our plan. Then there are others who say that they want to advance some other parks and so on, and we have to discuss whether we should, but it is clear that it is of course connected. Whether or not we consider the parks that have been decided on in the islands is important for timing. We want to discuss everything with the conciliation parties, that's clear, but if we have an ambition that these islands are going to be on rails, no it's probably a bad picture to use these islands to get started, then it's clearly smartest to think it together. That will be our starting point for the negotiations. Finally, about being a pioneer country: Why should Denmark run ahead of all the others? someone asked about today. If it had been a year ago, many people would have asked about it, among other things. Left, who thought of the concept of green realism, which was contrary to green idealism, and here was the attitude of the then energy minister, Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, that you were a little crazy if you had an ambition to be far ahead of the others. Fortunately, that has changed. I shall be the first to sign for the Left. What is the whole point of our climate legislation is, in fact, precisely that we have to be in front of others. It is not because we believe that reducing 70%. of our emissions, which amount to 0.1%. of the world's total emissions, is what saves the climate alone. But where we can make a difference is when we show others the way; when we show that we are a society that can actually do this task without fundamentally compromising our quality of life for our citizens, without compromising our competitiveness for our businesses, but instead strengthening us. That's also why I'm so concerned about this equality and social balance in this. It's not just because I'm a socialist. It is, of course, also because I am a Social Democrat. But imagine that we made a transition that led to more inequality in this country, which led to situations like those we've seen in France with yellow vests. Do you really think that people would point to us in the world and say, "Look, it's a fantastic pioneer country?" In fact, I think that some people in the world would say: look, that's what happens if you just hurl out there and are too ambitious in your environmental and climate policy. So to me, whether you're red like me or not, there's no other way than that we have to do it here, taking into account social balance. It is similar in terms of creating jobs. Now this one with the social balance was kind of a shot to the right side of the room. Then maybe I can bring a little shot to the left side of the hall. What happens if we do not ensure competitiveness, including for those parts of our industry which are the problem children in the eyes of the goose? It is clear that we are going to ensure the competitiveness of the green industry; it goes without saying, but what about the industry which is not the green industry? Take a company like Aalborg Portland, which is often used as an example in this debate. If you were very polemical, you might ask whether, as climate minister, I would not be happy that that company closed down. Then I would have solved a large part of the problem... it's huge discharges, they're coming with... but I wouldn't do that at all. Firstly, it is because less cement would not be produced in the world. It would just be produced elsewhere where it would pollute more. Secondly, however, and at least equally important, perhaps even more important, it is because the way we solve the world's climate problems is not hoping that cement will not be used in the world. At least that's a naive hope. It is then to ensure that that cement can be made green, and there we are the country in the world that may have the best opportunity to actually influence and press and help our companies to do so, among other things. Aalborg Portland. I was here the other day on Funen, and I visited Strings Tegl, where they make bricks. Let's hope you don't use bricks in the world. I also think that we should use more wood in the construction industry, but we will not have a world where we do not use bricks in the future. Besides, you can go down to the basement here under the house and see some bricks that are a thousand years old. It is reasonably sustainable if you recycle them and they last many, many years. But it is clear that very high temperatures must be used to burn bricks. So how do we make that process more green? Yes, there we actually have some options in Denmark. If you use biogas in that process, it turns green. So should we put so many taxes on Strings Tegl that they move to another country or close completely and then it just gets produced in Poland? Or should we help them to try to produce in a sustainable way? I think, of course, the last, but only if these dimensions include: only if we ensure growth; only if we secure employment; only if we secure social balance; we are a pioneer country and if we are not a pioneer country, then we have no chance of influencing the rest of the world. I have, of course, noticed that there are various proposals for adoption. That surprises me a little bit. I hope that the fact that the Radicals support one and not the other should not be taken as an example of how they permanently move into the blue camp on climate policy, but I may not quite understand what they want. I think the Left said that this is not good, I am glad, because the government is certainly not in favour of this either. That wouldn't be rational. I thought there were nuances in the way some of the others spoke, which allowed me to suspect that it was precisely in order to achieve sectoral objectives. I have been in the European Union for many years now, negotiating when I was a Member of the European Parliament. It was often the case that if we could not reach agreement, then, in the end, when we made a compromise, we chose a wording that could be interpreted in both ways, and then it was up to the Court of Justice to finally assess what was right. It is slightly different in European legislation. We do not usually do this in Danish legislation. In fact, this is not something I thought was very sensible to do either, but it is known in Brussels that this is often the way it ends in these compromises. I do not think we should do that in Denmark. So perhaps it could be fine in one way or another to clarify before voting on this proposal for adoption, what is really meant by over in the blue wing, and then I count the Radicals here: do you want sectoral targets or do you not want sectoral targets? Sectoral objectives I would warn against. We negotiated this quite harshly when we negotiated climate legislation, and I think it actually ended up being agreed that it was probably not really a good idea. By the way, the Climate Council is also opposed to this. I think it would be sensible for us to do this when we sit here and are very busy ahead of the summer holidays in order to get some very large tasks done. We would normally have taken many more months to negotiate, but as we have to discuss now because of corona and other things, it would be beneficial for everyone if we negotiated what we are now going to negotiate on the table here, and then talked a little less about what we are not going to negotiate on the table here, of course knowing that everything is connected and that we are not going to do it blindly, and that there are things we are going to do now, which will draw threads out in the future, but remind each other that we have agreed in relation to the Climate Act, that there is to be a climate programme and a plan of action this year in which we are going to show the way, that is to say in all sectors, that is perhaps what is being asked, until 2030 or even 2050. So I guess there are two ways of reading the alternative proposal for adoption. One is that you break with the Climate Act and that there are sectoral objectives, and the other is that it should be within the framework of the Climate Act, and then it is not a discussion about whether we should live up to it or not. Because we have to. It is, of course, in the law that we have proposed ourselves, and if the latter is the way to interpret it, I do not understand why the Radicals do not support the second proposal for adoption. Secondly, the proposal for adoption is the more ambitious in relation to all the greens and all that has to do with climate. The only reason I can see why the Radicals should support the bourgeois proposal for adoption rather than the green proposal for adoption is surely that we want to have it here with sectoral objectives. But if the Left now says that it is certainly not a sectoral objective, that it really is not a sectoral objective, then perhaps I think there is a small problem of explanation. However, we may be able to clarify this. In any case, I would like to thank you for a very good debate, which has also made me wiser and also confident. I know that you would rather not use English words up here from the platform, but I would nevertheless like to say that I do not hope that it will be famous last words, but that I am actually quite optimistic about the negotiations that we are currently holding and which will have to be continued over the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135122	Thank you. If you use English terms, you also have to translate them along the way. Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply Well, that may be good). I think it's gonna be okay this time. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135135	Thank you. After all, with a pill on the left, the Minister mentioned that we must ensure competitiveness. I would like to ensure the competitiveness of the wind turbine industry, and that is also why the next two offshore wind farms are important to get a timetable so that they can be realised, so that there is something to be done in Danish jobs that produce wind turbines and that have become accustomed to the implementation of the planned offshore wind turbines, even if there may be some ripples around the political processes. And I am listening to the Minister, like the two offshore wind farms, which are very specific in the energy agreement, involved in something that can be negotiated in relation to something else. I am, in effect, very opposed to that. I'm very much in favour of moving on with those energy islands, but I don't see the reasonable thing about dropping the two offshore wind farms. So I would like to appeal to the Minister to have the energy conciliation group convened before the summer break and to get it to the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135243	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135244	Well, you're called, we're negotiating; it's part of these energy negotiations. It is a fair position if you say that it is more important for us that these two islands are built without having anything to do with the energy islands. They must not be connected with the energy islands, if that is what Enhedslisten thinks it would surprise me a little, unless one is against the energy islands in principle. If you think we should have some energy taxes and you even think that they should come as soon as possible, and you want them to be able to count in the 70%. In 2030, it would be foolish not to think about how to think about the offshore wind farms we have already decided to create into a context of energy islands. But that's what we have to negotiate. And I guess just to make one thing clear, it's important to say that what we're proposing here isn't something that moves away from it or is less ambitious; this is far It's also far
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135349	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135350	Well, we need a timetable for those energy islands, because if it is some mills that can be set up in 2025, then I can see the sense of it. But if those two energy islands are something that comes just before 2030, then there is some kind of gap compared to the fact that ordinary Danish jobs in the wind turbine industry have a hole in production. And when we may not be able to set up farm mills, we really do have a problem. And that's what I'm appealing to you to take a little more seriously. And then, last of all, I would like to hear from this technology-neutral VE offer in 2020 when we will resume negotiations on it in order to get it implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135426	It is also part of the negotiations that we are currently engaged in and which will of course also be continued next week. Well, of course we respect conciliation, but I also think that the questioner agrees that we can question something that is in that conciliation and perhaps make it smarter and better. Otherwise, we can skip all the technology-neutral supply, because then the Danish People's Party is right that there is a windmill ceiling, and that is just the way it is. But I think I agree with the questioner that we would like to appeal to the Danish People's Party if we could not change, because the situation is different now, and we are more ambitious, and there were some things that we did not think would go as they have gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135504	Then it's Ruben Kidde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135505	Thank you very much and thank you for the great attention on the Radical Left in the Minister's speech. After all, it is a good thing that we as a party have not only moved the government to speed up their plans for a real climate action and to respond to the desire for green tax reform, but are now also at the centre of the Minister's speech. The Minister then questioned why the Radical Left, together with the Left, the Alternative and some more bourgeois parties, have put together a majority outside the government as part of today's debate. Why? After all, it can be boiled down to some fairly crucial lines, which are that the Folketing instructs the government, as part of the ongoing negotiations on a climate agreement, to present the Government's expectations of reductions in individual areas. What is the position of the Minister on having come into the minority, or at least appears to be in the minority, in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135613	That's what I asked you a little bit about, what did that mean? I mean, the alternative is in favour of sectoral objectives or, of course, I don't know if the alternative does, but what I know they fought for in the climate legislation negotiations, but they didn't get that. I do not know what the Radicals are in favour of and mean anymore. I know that the Left certainly doesn't want it. So if it is not sectoral objectives, but it is the expectation of how to reach 30, then we are committed to it in the Climate Act. This is what we need to do in the climate plan, so I do not understand what you are demanding in goose eyes, but it must be something important, since you will not support the red-green text, as I call it, which is of course much more ambitious and which is, of course, very detailed in what you are asking for. So perhaps the questioner could elaborate on that, that is to say what is really meant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135656	Sir. Ruben Kidde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135657	This is not, of course, about sectoral targets, as has already been revealed, but it is, after all, a question of getting an indication of what the government expects in each area. The Minister also knows this very well from the sitting which has also been held, that is to say that a wide range of parties around the government really do not want to negotiate blindly, but to have some indication of where we are going. So I just hope so, and I would urge the Minister to recognise a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135731	In other words, when there is a majority in the Folketing, of course I recognise that, but nothing has yet been voted on. But we must look at this; if there is a majority, then we must recognize it. It's gonna be so little difficult when you can't tell me what it means. In other words, if that means what we already have to deliver in relation to the Climate Act, then of course we will be delivering there; that is clear. We are in the midst of very, very important negotiations. We're gonna have to, among other things. Negotiate the world's most ambitious offshore wind project, an idea that the Radicals would like to take credit for having also given birth, which is probably something right in the world, and then what you focus on is half or whole lengths of clogs to get an assessment of something that needs to be done on something to be negotiated later. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135814	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135815	Thank you so much. In the alternative, we are also in favour of what we have begun to call climate taxes. So we're not red-green. We have nothing against socialists in the Alternative, but we are not a socialist party ■ we are green. In this connection, I was aware that the Minister said that there were two problems with regard to the revenue from possible climate taxes. The first is that the Radicals will apply them to corporate tax reductions. I think that is also a problem, and the Radicals should not be allowed to decide that alone. Hopefully, more of us will have to decide that. The alternative should not determine it either, but after all we have other proposals, and there we come to another problem, namely that it will be phased out or what can be said; it is a temporary tax, trying to phase out what the tax is on. But there is, after all, for some time before we are so lucky that it will be phased out. We could use that time, for example. social compensation, perhaps even support for green entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612135925	It is very precisely presented, that is, what the challenge is. And that is actually just what I would like to point out when someone says: 'Well, we all agree that we should have a CO2 Yes, that is very good, but that is just one side of the coin, I was going to say; it isn't even a tiny part of the question. Because if you, like Ole Birk Olesen, think it might be a very good idea, because at the same time you have far less money for the entire huge welfare state that you want to get rid of, well, it's probably not us that you get along with it, probably not the questioner either. If it is a question of finding a system where, on the other hand, it can be done in a way which is socially balanced, which ensures that we have money for our welfare and which ensures that the green transition can continue, it also requires revenue and competitiveness, then perhaps we can agree. And as I said, we have a CO2 Now the questioner says that his party is neither red nor blue, but he recognizes that there are distributional consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140035	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140037	Yes, we recognise that there are distributional consequences. Although we are not socialists, it is sometimes the case that we come to the same conclusions as socialists, but we approach it from another background. We are approaching it from a point of view of value policy. But even if you have a value policy starting point, you can, for example, have a value policy starting point. be very much against economic inequality and so on. etc., and you can also be a much more freedom-loving party on what we called the centre-left wing at the time. However, I recognise that there are ideological discussions about where such revenue should be channelled, and there we are certainly not talking about tax cuts on business tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140118	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140119	I don't know if I can keep threshing long tails on that picture with the hammer, but perhaps it's better to say: you agree that you need a hammer, but the ones on the left in the hall think it's the companies that have to pay for the hammer, and the ones on the right in the hall think it's the workers who have to pay for the hammer. Then you cannot say you agree; yes, you agree that a hammer can be good. Perhaps we could also try to make the debate a little more nuanced and ask what we want to achieve. Instead of talking about agreeing on a tool which, incidentally, we do not agree on if I may just say so, but let us just assume that we agreed on the tool, should we not also agree on the objective? And if we agree on the goal, there are suddenly all sorts of other tools that you can use as well. I would also like to say that the fact that something is cost-effective is a good thing, we are also in favour of it, but that is not all it is about, because then we would never have had offshore wind farms in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140211	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140224	Thank you. The minister mentioned that there were some who were red-green, and then there were others who were blue-green. He forgot some of us are green-green. It is the case that the Radicals are also green-green, and then they are also bourgeois, so it is quite natural that they are included; the Minister could not understand that. I think that if the SF weren't so close to the minister, they would also have said that this was a very good idea. The minister mentioned it with sector quite many times. That is not what the text says. It says: "The Danish Parliament therefore requires the government, as part of the ongoing negotiations on a climate agreement, to present the Government's expectations of reductions in individual areas. That is what has been said for a long time now in the climate negotiations. It is, of course, that you want to know where the minister is going. Well, we know what the target is, but we don't know who's going to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140332	But we're gonna have to deliver that. It is at least an open door that you then kick in; it is to push us into something that we have committed ourselves to doing in the Climate Act. This year, for the first time ever in Denmark, we are going to present a climate action plan that illustrates the way forward to 2030 with sectoral strategies. It's in the law, so we have to. That is simply what I am a little puzzled about unless it is political teasing and one has found such a wording where some will sneak in sectoral targets through the back door and others will not, and then it is fun to have the government in the minority, and peace be with it if that is what it is. But of course it is genuinely worrying if we enter into such important negotiations as we are doing now, without any certainty as to what the parties that have now joined together in this community want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140436	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140436-2	What we are trying to tell the Minister is that it would now be a very good idea to tell us what the Minister's plans are to achieve the 70%. What should agriculture deliver, what should it do, for example? transport deliver, what should the energy sector deliver? We don't know anything about that. Negotiations continue in the area of climate change, as they have done so far. Then you act so bluntly: then it's waste, then it's small deals with reaching 2 million. t, but we have to reach 19. What if you're missing 7 million? T, they say, Dear farming, you must take them, because we just need you at the end, so you must take them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140522	No, as I have said a few times, we have to present the overall plan this year to illustrate it. So it is not up to us to discuss whether we should or not. Then it is true that we are not discussing all the issues at the same time on the same table, and we are doing so, among other things. Not because we don't have the knowledge we need now. I really believe that the questioner must agree that it is a very good idea to wait for the Commission which the author's party has set up itself, i.e. the Car Commission. So all the time that we haven't heard from the Car Commission yet, can we not say so well what we will conclude on the Car Commission, so how can we explain what the effects of it will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140559	So, it's Mr. Knox. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140600	Thank you. I actually think it's relatively simple. I understand that the Minister is trying to trouble it and tease it a little, but the essence is that if you have to build a house, you have to decide whether it should be a log house, a mansion or a funkiss style, and then you start with some sketches. That is actually what we are asking the Minister to do in this area, i.e. to make some sketches that show where we are. Our nervousness is, of course, that we end up in a situation where the last reduction targets become some that burden the Danish economy, Danish growth etc., and we are not interested in that. That is why we want to know: Where are we? What kind of picture does the Minister have? Right now we're discussing 2 million. t, what's next? The minister must have in a drawer somewhere a master plan for where he's thinking we're going. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140653	Once upon a time, a friend of mine asked me, because after I came in here, he had started to follow what is happening at Christiansborg: Do you ever discuss what you really are doing, or are you only discussing what plans you want? You say: the Left has no economic plan, the Social Democracy has no economic plan, but we want you to do so. When we bring it up, you ask, "Why don't you bring me anything else?" In other words, it may well be that some people think that 2 million. I think it would be a little sloppy to think that if you come from a former government party, but let it lie because it is significantly more ambitious than anything we have ever seen from them. But we do agree that it is real action that these are things that can happen here and now. I think that the picture with the house is quite a good picture intuitive, but I also think that before you do such a sketch, you have some data to do that sketch on the basis of. You know what kind of land you're building on, what light conditions are and all that kind of stuff. So does the questioner not think that it is a very good idea that we also have the data on cars? Why has the Car Commission been set up if we do not think we should listen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140805	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140806	What we're worried about is about the 2 million. t is enough. That's what we're actually asking. That is why we would like the Minister's picture to be taken, as my good colleague from the Radical Left says, just what we are asking for in half and in whole lengths of clogs. And it is clear that we who are behind this proposal for adoption have some political disagreements, but we really just want to know: what is the Minister's quite rough plan? It doesn't have to be on decimals or anything, but just so we get a sense of where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140841	We have presented a detailed plan on how to achieve 2 million. t, e.g. the world's most ambitious offshore wind turbine project according to the Financial Times description. But you're not so interested in that. You are more interested in getting something in some half and whole shoe lengths of e.g.. the transport sector, where you yourself set up a commission because you had to understand, because it was the then government that was in power that could not make decisions about it until you had the data. Now we say, "Well, why don't we wait for that data?" And then you say, we want to know what you mean before you get that data. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140917	As I see it, no one else has asked for the floor. Yes, Signe Munk would like the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612140928	Thank you. I'm sorry if I made a typographical error (The Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply) A typographical error? )... but I would like the floor. Thank you for that, President. Well, I'd like to talk a little concrete policy. The SF called on the government to present such a climate package, not because we had foreseen corona, or that we would be in such a pressure situation as we are doing now, but simply because both the Climate Council and many major NGOs said: there are, like some acute climate decisions that you must take. And I would just like to sign that the government has actually taken on a great deal in relation to energy and to what the Climate Council recommended, because it is really important for SF that we also make sure that I have made it before the problem does not grow bigger, that we do not move further away from the 70%, because that is really a bit what can happen if there is too much investment in a black future. So it's good, yet there's little missing, compared to what SF sees as acute climate action, among other things. some reports in relation to the transport. The Climate Council has among other things: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Does the Minister think that this could be part of these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141037	First of all, thank you for recognising that, despite a very difficult situation, we are now actually putting forward proposals which, of course, deliver on the vast majority of the advice we have received not all of them and that on some of them we also go much further. I mean, like... As far as winds are concerned, we are going far beyond what has been recommended, and I think that we are probably quite satisfied with that. Then there's the thing about diesel or petrol cars. After all, we have said that we are working in the European Union to have the opportunity to ban the introduction of new cars of this kind by 2030. And then you can easily have an idea that it would be good to do it before, but it would be illegal to do it before we changed the law. I think it may be difficult enough to have it changed to 2030, but with regard to doing so by 2025, I would say that there is no proposal in the European Union right now, and if so, it should do so. So we cannot, I think, count on anything we adopt now, even if we should do so, all the time that it is probably totally unrealistic to get through. In addition, we believe that 2025 is too early and that it will hit families with little money hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141146	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141147	Okay, that was one element that could be in relation to some climate change action in transport. SF has among other things: We also said that we would like to see a stop to the purchase of diesel and petrol cars in the municipalities and regions, and we have much more on the palette; I think the Minister knows the SF's approach to the wealth of ideas in the climate area. I would just like to ask again: could one imagine that then there is a variety of, for example. the transport or agricultural sector, which will be part of these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141217	Well, I think I can promise that we will need the wealth of ideas, including with the proposals we have put forward. I'd say we're gonna be busy for the next few weeks. There is much to be negotiated and it is very ambitious to believe that we can achieve it. But we believe that. If the question is whether you believe that we can achieve that and that does not mean that it will be postponed until next year or until 40 years or 50 years from now. This means that it has been postponed to the other side of the summer holiday, as we have said quite clearly many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141246	So have a nice day. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 16 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200612141301	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 16 June 2020 at 1 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
