ParlaMint-DK_20200319100012	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 141 (Proposal for a law on the legal status of employers and employees in the event of compensation for employees in connection with covid-19). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing of Troels Lund Poulsen (V), who is on leave, I have been informed that from today's date, on 19 March 2020, he can again meet in the Parliament. Anders G. Christensen's role as a temporary member of the Folketing therefore ceases from today's date and not as previously announced from 26 March 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319100053	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319100103	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319100121	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. It is, of course, a very special vote that we are going to have today, by the fact that Members of Parliament are now coming into the Chamber in teams and going to their own seats and votes, and we are then waiting to have quite a lot of teams before we have completed the vote. But I would ask the Secretary-General to ensure that the first team to vote comes in. Here you go. It is now possible to vote for the third reading of L 100 of the Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber, and when you have voted, please go back out. You're welcome to vote. The vote will end. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) voted against 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319101136	Amendments have been tabled and I now ask the rapporteurs of the L 140 and the Minister to come into the Chamber. The rapporteurs and the Minister can just sit down in their usual seats. The debate is open. It is the second reading in which amendments have been tabled and I should like to hear: does anyone wish to comment on the amendments? Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319101249	Today we are second-reading L 140, which is of course urgent legislation in the field of children's and education. I already said at first reading that we on the Left had a number of clear demands on the legislative proposal, among others. we believe, and we continue to believe that it is quite relevant that it is society that is going in and supporting the family economy we are also going in and supporting the business economy of these days when the corona has really taken its hold in our society. And if we look into a period which is longer than the 14 days that have already been withdrawn, in relation to the closure of nurseries, kindergartens, afterschools and schools in Danish society, we believe that the Left, as I have also said at first reading and repeated in the consultations and the committee procedure we have had, is quite reasonable that parents should of course not have to pay for a benefit they do not receive. That is why we want there to be financial compensation for parents. We have not been able to get through with our demands in the discussion, but we have received the Government's statement that economic negotiations will be convened if we look into a period when schools and institutions are still closed after Easter. We look forward to that debate. We believe that it would be irresponsible to do anything else at a time when parents are losing their jobs, the small independent hairdresser or café owner can see their life's work disappear, has turned the key and is closed. They have children at home who receive neither education nor care. They may also have children at home from post-schools. Therefore, we do not think it is fair that parents should continue to pay for those benefits, and we obviously hope that we can agree on this together, that is to say that parents should be compensated. This is also the reason why we do not support the specific amendment because we have written it down in our political report and feel covered by the report in this area, but it is a matter which is extremely important for the Left, and I know that it is also the case of the Conservative, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and other parties that there is real compensation for parents in the situation we are in. It costs about 1 billion. kr. a month, and you can say that is a lot of money, but it is even more money in the family's economy where parents have already been fired, and we know that there are already tens of thousands of Danes who are or where you have an independent company that does not have any earnings at the moment. After all, it is taxed money that you pay crèche, kindergarten and post-school, and therefore it takes a very large slice of the family's resources if you then have to continue to pay for something you do not receive. We hope that there will be support for this. We are certainly looking forward to the political negotiations. We also mentioned at first reading that we think it is important that, although we are adopting urgent legislation, there is also a form of parliamentary involvement and control over the regulations and powers that we are now giving to the Minister and the government. There we are pleased that a follow-up group has now been set up with the rapporteurs in this area so that we can ensure that we can take some of the difficult decisions we are about to take together. We would have liked it to be a decision-making follow-up group, but we note that it is a follow-up group and it is better than nothing. It is also important for the Left, as I said at first reading, that there is no sudden discrimination against children in need of emergency care based on whether their parents have critical job functions to perform in the public or private sectors. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples in which children and their parents have been denied emergency care because there were municipalities which interpreted the rules in such a way that they were sitting with critical work functions or simply still had to maintain their work in a Danish production company, they were not entitled to emergency care. There we have been made clear in committee that this must not, of course, be the case. It's the way this society's gonna keep driving around. We must spare the private sector as much as we can. There are very many people who are still away at work, and if those families do not have the opportunity to have their children taken care of in other ways, emergency care applies both in the child field, but also in the sfo-part up to the 9-year-olds, of course, also to the parents who have private employment. It has been important to us that this has also been clarified in the legislative process. I would also like to refer to our contribution to the report, where, together with the other bourgeois parties, we have listed a very large number of elements which have been adjusted in the legislative proposal and which have been important to us. There are two final points I would like to mention here from the platform. There is a need for there to also be a concrete follow-up to the quality of emergency education that our children and young people receive in these days and hours. This isn't an extra vacation. This is a situation in which there must continue to be a proper quality of emergency education. It is clear that it can never be a quality that matches what is in everyday life, where you are in a classroom with a well-prepared teacher. Because we know that teachers often also have children at home and that they also have to multi-task in relation to a number of functions. But there must not be a situation in which children and young people, especially those who have special needs, experience that they do not receive the education that they are entitled to and that they need. During the committee procedure, we have put a number of questions to the draft law. We have taken a great deal of interest in ensuring proper conditions for our post-schools as well. They look into a very, very critical situation. We welcome the concession and have taken note of the concessions which have been made by the Minister and the government and on which we have agreed among the parties of the Folketing. It is a form of school which is even more challenged because the parental pay for the post-schools is relatively much higher than for the other forms of school, and therefore they risk being further affected, both the families who have their children at home, but also the school form as a whole. One area which was originally not included in the bill was the high schools and the whole of the public awareness work. But this has also been achieved in good cooperation. So thank you for your cooperation to ensure that they are also included in the legislative proposal. It is against this background that we think we have made a great deal of progress on the legislative proposal. The left can back up the bill. We support the Minister's amendments. Given that we have obtained the concession of having a real economic debate on parental payments, we have chosen, together with the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, not to support the specific amendment. This does not mean that we do not share the substantive wording of the specific amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party, but we think it is important that we now enter an economic negotiating area where we also find the roughly billion needed to compensate parents if the period lasts over the 14 days. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102014	Although several Members have asked for the floor, I do not think it will take us so long to send our colleagues back to the offices. That is the assessment I have, at least for the time being. Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102031	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we support L 140, i.e. the emergency legislation here in the Ministry of Education, but we also believe that it is important to stress that there should be no parents who have to pay for a benefit that they do not receive after 1 April. We wanted to send this very clear signal to the people that they should take it easy. We know that there are a great many who are already plunged into worries and can look forward to having a bad economy. Then we should not at the same time be faced with a situation in which we have to pay for an institutional space which we cannot use because it is closed. Therefore, we think it is very important to send the clear signal to all Danish parents who do not have their children in emergency care that they should not pay for that. That is why we have tabled this amendment to the effect that from 1 April we can count on compensation. It must be the state and the municipalities that have to pay for these seats, so you don't have to report your child out to save money if that's what you're afraid of; if you're afraid this crisis will last longer than these 14 days, and it probably will. That is why we have tabled the amendment. It is to reassure people that you do not have to pay for something that you do not get after 1 April. We hope, of course, that there are others other than the Danish People's Party who will support this amendment, which is really just a clarification of what lies in what we have debated and talked about during the legislative process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102215	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102221	It's an abnormal situation we're in. Denmark is closed down and children are kept at home from school and day offers. It is necessary, and New Citizens support it. However, we must be sharp when we make urgent legislation like this. In New Citizens we are therefore incredibly pleased that together we found a solution for those parents who are hit hard economically if this crisis extends to after Easter. However, we would like to see a fixed deadline set, and that is why we support the amendment on a deadline of 1 April. At this early stage we must all contribute, but if this situation continues, we must meet the Danish families in the economy. If this exceptional situation continues until 1 April, we believe that parents should be compensated and, of course, no longer pay for something they do not get. Many families are hit economically by this crisis, and that is why, as a society, we must, of course, hold our hands under the families financially. It is the family's own money that they must, of course, be allowed to keep more of in this difficult time. I am glad that we are united at this time and about this solution, and of course New Citizens continue to support the overall legislative proposal, but we also support the amendment on a deadline of 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102351	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102357	The urgency proposal here at second reading deserves just a few words on the road. It is an extremely far-reaching proposal which provides for provisions that we never thought we would give. In fact, I think that is how all the parties in the Folketing feel. But it is truly extraordinary to have to deal with the decommissioning of the country's schools and day care centres. Since first reading, there has been a massive process; over 100 questions have been sent over to the Ministry and have been answered. We, as Conservatives, want to emphasise a few points here, and also for the sake of the time of our fellow Members, I shall be very brief. The first is that we must ensure that we get the best possible benefit from distance learning and the situation we are in. The Minister said that we might have less quality, but we do not think we should throw the towel in the ring in advance. We must try to be creative and make the best of the situation for our children. The second is that with regard to the economic situation, the Minister has given a concession in relation to V and K's desire to keep their hands on the families who are already in a very precarious situation. A lot of parents are worried if they have a job tomorrow. We therefore called at the committee meeting yesterday for solutions to be found so that parents do not find themselves in a difficult economic situation and at the same time have to pay for a school offer, for example. at a post-school school that students don't get. We are pleased that the government will call for financial negotiations to end parental payments. We look into a situation where day care institutions, schools etc. continue to be closed when we get across the Easter. And now we have been granted the concession that we are taking up the negotiations there. That is why we are voting against the DF's amendments. The third point I would like to mention here is that we are concerned about the socially disadvantaged that they are left on the platform. And how does it leave it behind, for example? children with autism or asperger? They need structure. Where does it leave the child, who is socially exposed and who is surrounded by solid adults in school, club offers, leisure activities and there is help to deal with the difficult situation at home, but who must be at home with one thing? Here we are calling on the Minister for Children and Social Affairs to ensure that those children are protected so that the differences and conditions do not become too great. Finally, the parties find it very worrying that it appears extremely unclear in the legislative text how the parental pay and, therefore, the income base for private day-off services as well as free and private schools and afterschools are ensured during this temporary closure. The parties have called on the Minister to ensure a proper framework and clarity so that we do not end up in a situation where parents report their children out and schools are in an economically unsustainable situation. Here we will continue to appeal for clarification. So, despite these very far-reaching legislative changes and despite our four concerns here, we take responsibility and Conservatives vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102703	Thank you. I understand that there is a brief comment from Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102711	I shall make this supercard, but it is just because the rapporteur says that the minister has thrown the towel in the ring in relation to the quality of home teaching that has been done. And there I just wanted to say that I didn't hear it at all. When we had the discussion at first reading, the Minister said that, and I think that was actually a very good thing, that expectations were being balanced and that this is a completely new situation. We don't know the consequences anymore out of the timeline. And, of course, we must have high ambitions, but this is not about throwing the towel in the ring. I just wanted to comment on it, that's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102745	Fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102748	Thank you. And then I just have to make sure that there is no one but the Minister for Children and Education who wishes to speak, because otherwise I will interrupt that assembly out there. Here you go to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319102802	Thank you. It is actually a truth that it says a lot about Danish democracy that it can manage to do these things in such a short time. Now it has been mentioned from up here that more than 100 questions have been asked, and I am quite sure that this is because it is in these questions and in the conduct of both a technical examination and also of the committee procedure and, moreover, a closed consultation on this, that we are ensuring that the legislation has the appropriate quality, so it is also in normal circumstances and that, moreover, there are the checks and balances that must be in a society between the different interests, between the different social groups that exist and between the different positions that exist. It is quite extreme to have to carry out the processes in such a short time as we have done. And I would like to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for having used all the powers that have been used to ask the questions qualified and properly so that we have been able to get around all the issues that need to be considered when making legislation. So we've made it all the way around? It's hard to say, because usually we spend a lot more time, and we usually have a lot more in there and we can run many more rounds. But we've all done as well as we could, and I'd like to send you a huge thank you from the government that you've put the incredible amount of effort into it over the last 24 hours. Then I'll say something brief. I will try to be brief, but we will have to sort out some things so that it is also recorded, so that we know what we have agreed with each other and so that it is very clear. In the case of day-to-day places, it is the case that, from the next month onwards, if you have lost your income base, you will be entitled to full and partial free places. I just think we should make that clear. And that means that for those who lose their income during these days, the usual rules apply in relation to the whole and partial freeways, and thus there is a possibility that you will not have to pay in the future too. So what is the discussion here, which is a completely legitimate discussion and an expression of a difference of opinion, is how early we must take action in relation to the rest of the parents to mitigate the consequences of this on the economic side. There is a disagreement about this in Parliament and long live it, because one of the most terrible things we can do in this situation is to put democracy out of effect. So I would like to thank you for the enthusiasm shown by the Danish People's Party when it comes to actually having an amendment tabled, and then I would like to welcome the fact that the Left and Conservatives are doing what is also making our democracy incredibly strong, namely that over the middle you can make agreements when it comes to both are important, both positions are crucial so many thanks for that. I would also, of course, like to thank Enhedslisten, Radical Left, SF and those who at one time were the Alternative Thank you very much for the cooperation these days. Then I would like to say something about the private employees, because it must also be said clearly from the platform, namely that people employed in the private sector who have not been repatriated because of corona, all have the right to have their children in emergency care if they are between 0 and 9 years old. Now it has just been said quite unequivocally, because there have been doubts about it. It must be said equally unequivocally that those who have a child between the ages of 0 and 18 who have challenges have the right to emergency care because the child has adhd; it may be because the child has autism; it may be because the child has other general learning difficulties; it may also be social problems at home, moreover, and that it may be a sibling group where someone has problems and where it therefore presents challenges. This means that a 17-year-old child can also be cared for. It is incredibly important to say, because it can be so difficult to make things stick together on the home front. In relation to high schools and post-schools and the problems raised here in connection with the treatment, I would say: yes, we will come back to that and, of course, we will have to ensure that there are proper rules there as well; the same applies to amu. The last thing I want to say is that I attach great importance to the follow-up group which has been set up at the request of the parties of the Folketing. We have the first meeting we call tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. 11. We expect to continue to have regular meetings in the follow-up group so that we can, together, as far as possible, allow the activities of the Folketing to continue as normal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319103211	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319103219	I ask that those who are already in here stay in here and vote and then go out. And then we'll get the co-workers into teams. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, 3 and 4, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB, 1 (S) (by mistake) and 1 (V) (by mistake)), against 81 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200319103952	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Thursday, 19 March 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 12.00, with the third reading of Bill No. L 140 and first reading of Bill No. L 141. If the supplementary report by the Committee on Children's and Education, above L 140, has not been published at 2.30 p.m. 12.00, I will switch the order of the two cases, so we start with the first reading of Bill No. L 141. As a starting point, however, there is another vote in the Parliamentary Assembly today at 1 p.m. 12.00.
