ParlaMint-DK_20201221120012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kim Valentin (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Birgitte Bergman (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a board of directors of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on more flexible assistance for families with children with disabilities). Kristian Jensen (V), Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Marianne Jelved (RV), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of private teacher training). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120106	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120208	Member of the Folketing Henning Hyllested (EL) applied for leave from 1 January 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120236	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in South Jutland's Storkreds, Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 1 January 2021 on the occasion of Henning Hyllested's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120256	Before starting the vote, I would ask each one to check whether the correct name is in the voting panel. If that is the case, I will start the vote. The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120336	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120347	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 1 (LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120416	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak on the amendments? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120432	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF, NB and LA) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 2 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF). Amendment No 3, which was adopted by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) on Amendment No 3, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community. No 4 or Amendment No 4 by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and NB). 5, to be They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120522	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole, and I know that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen wishes to speak. I would just like to get a sense of how many rapporteurs wish to speak in relation to whether or not the vote A should be turned off. I'll get that in the next few minutes. But first it's sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221120536	Thank you, President. It is against a sad background that we are here today with L 77: on the one hand, the global pandemic, which has affected not only Denmark, but the whole world, and on the other hand the fears it leads to, and on the other hand some very far-reaching political decisions. One of the decisions is, of course, the decision taken by the government at the beginning of November. At a press conference, the government announced that it had decided that all mink should be killed with reference to public health and that this should be done immediately and quickly. That work went on. Later, it turned out that there was no legal basis or any other way of saying: it was not lawful to make such a decision. We should have said at least that it is not legal, that we should have the Folketing on board. That's what the government wanted to do in an afternoon. That is what it says in the letter sent by the Prime Minister to the Parliamentary Assembly, whether we would like to dispense with all the rules and adopt it in an afternoon. Of course, that could be a fine solution for the Prime Minister and for the government, and I think that at that time the Prime Minister thought it was the right decision. I guess she wouldn't have suggested it otherwise. But that was not the right decision and it was not a fair and fair treatment of those who have been affected by the decision taken by the government. It's the 5,000-6,000 people who work in the mink business. It is all of us in relation to the bill that this ends up triggering in compensation, which is going to be a huge amount of billions. That is why there was not a majority in the Folketing to grant dispensations, and that is why we have given this proposal a general treatment. I think that has been very wise, and I would like to acknowledge here today, on the floor of the Danish Parliament, that I am glad that a great many people have moved from their original starting point, not least the government. From not wanting to pay compensation to a significant extent, it has now moved forward and wants to pay compensation to a much greater extent. We have received the Minister for Food's word for that in consultation. There is still no agreement on compensation. We are, of course, sorry about that in the Left, and we hope that will soon be possible. We said at first reading that we did not think the draft law was good enough, and we still do not think so. This does not mean that there will be a guarantee of fair treatment for minkkeepers and their families and accompanying businesses, so in the light of the fact that there is no compensation agreement and in the light of the fact that the bill is as it is, we cannot support it. We are also sorry that there is a majority which has now voted down the amendment that we tabled in the Left to write into the bill that there should be full and complete compensation under the Constitution. We must then note that there is no majority in favour. It also says a little about the compensation agreement, which may be on the way, but it has to come then. That is why this proposal is still not such that we can support it in the Left, but we would like to acknowledge that there are many parties that have moved from the original where we should adopt something in an afternoon. We would like to acknowledge and sign for that. We think it is basically good that the Danish Parliament has had the opportunity to ask questions and to clarify a number of different things. And what has also grown out of the proposal is what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure decided this morning, namely to set up a committee in the form of a committee of inquiry to look at the political foreplay: what led to such a decision being taken without it being provided for? Then there will be a search commission to investigate. I would also like to acknowledge that all the parties in the Folketing are now supporting it and that many have changed their point of view from the view that this could be investigated by independent legal investigation or otherwise, and that we now agree that a proper investigation commission should be set up with the legal guarantees that apply to witness hearing etc. I'd like to sign for that, too. Then I would like to say that there have been considerations, including in my own party, about using the provisions of the Constitution to postpone the entry into force of this proposal after a parliamentary election. After all, a minority of 60 members of parliament can ask for this, and then it will be postponed until after a parliamentary election. In view of the fact that we are not satisfied with the fact that there is no agreement and that we are not satisfied with the draft law, it is of course tempting to choose such a model. But we have asked about this, and we have also received some fine answers from the ministers about it, both from the Minister for Food and the Minister for Justice. We would like to sign for it and they say quite clearly that if you do, you take the mink and their families hostage in a political game. Although we are not satisfied with what is at stake and although we are dissatisfied with the government and basically want to have a government other than the one that sits and has to decide on this and other matters, we will not be involved in taking these people who have been through so much as hostage in some political game and a fight between the blocs. We do not think that is fair and fair. It is quite reasonable that other parties should take that position, but we do not think that we can be familiar with those people who have suffered enough. That is why we do not support such a proposal, and we have also noted that the mink growers and Kopenhagen Fur and a large number of others have also said that they now need clarification. So I would say, even though the Left cannot support this bill, that now comes an authorisation for the Minister, and then the Minister has the opportunity to pay out the tempo bonus and a number of other things, which we think is fine, and we also think it is fine that it has been increased. One can then get to grips with the big issue of compensation so that the people affected by the decision taken by the government and who were unhomed, that is, taken on a non-legal basis, can get some money so that they can come home at Christmas and perhaps find out how they can move on in their lives until they get the big compensation paid and there can be an agreement on it. We in the Left think that is the only right and decent thing to do. That is why it is our position on the proposal, and that is why we are voting against the draft law as it stands, but we hope that it will be possible to reach agreement quickly on the replacement and enforcement of the authorisation that is now coming here to the government and to the Minister for Food. We are not looking forward to it, but we look forward to clarification as to why these decisions were taken in the government, on what basis and on whom some mistakes have been made. Because mistakes have been made. So has the Prime Minister. And who will be responsible for them? We are now examining this and we are all agreed on it. I am pleased about that, and in those words I should like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121245	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121249	Thank you very much to the Chairman of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. I agree with Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in that there have been long and there have been many debates and there has been a thorough discussion, a thorough discussion in the trade committee around L 77, but when I want to take the floor, it is to be a little bit wiser on the practice that then happens to the Left. Because I assume that the rapporteur agrees with you that this, among other things. L 77 corrects, is the law home around the tempo bonus for minkkeepers that means that they got an extra bonus to help the process happen faster. After all, the Left is voting against it here in the Danish Parliament today. In other words, the Left is opposed to the mink being given a tempo bonus. At least they're not gonna let this happen today. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121344	We have voted in favour of the amendments which increased the pace bonus, and we have explained this in our report's contribution to the political comments quite thoroughly. When we do not vote for the overall proposal, it is because there is no agreement on compensation. We don't have any certainty about what's going to happen. With this bill you give the government a blank cheque, and there we can say that our trust in the government at this time is not where we just want to give the government a blank cheque to decide what the compensation should be. Then it is true that there is something political on top of it, but if there had been an agreement on compensation, we might be different from the proposal, but there is not, and that is why we are voting no, and we have been honest about that from the start. I said in my rapporteur's speech at first reading that what was there was not good enough. It's gotten a little better. We have voted in favour of the improvements, but basically we do not think it is good enough yet. But now we have to take a position, and then we have to say yes or no, and then we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121441	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121443	But there are two courses in this. The rapporteur has been fully aware of this. There is the negotiation process of a replacement, expropriation, and then there is L 77, which is the law of killing mink and the law of the tempo bonus. These are two very different courses. Will the rapporteur not recognise that by voting against the report, the Left will also vote against giving hardworking minkers the very important tempo bonus?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121516	No. I think it's something weird, sir. Anders Kronborg is out in. It is usually the case that you negotiate, you have a legal procedure, and then you take a position at the end. After all, the bill will be passed. We can see that. This can be seen in the report. So we're not helping to stop anyone from doing anything. We do not think this is good enough, and if the government had listened more to the Left in the negotiations, it might be that we had voted in favour, but now things are as they are, and neither can Mr. Anders Kronborg or I will change. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121548	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121550	Thank you. We have asked legal experts whether there is a situation such as that explained by the government, namely that mink farmers risk not being able to receive compensation for the animals they have slaughtered on the basis of some kind of promise that they could get a compensation and also get paid a tempo bonus. It is quite clear that when the State has promised that you will receive compensation, regardless of the fact that you are not entitled to it, there is either a risk that you will be held liable personally, or it is the state that is doing so. You cannot be in a situation as a citizen, where you have done what you have been ordered to do and then you do not get the compensation. This brings me to the question whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that, in this situation, it is not the Folketing, but the government that will take the minkkeepers hostage if we activate section 73 and thus postpone it here after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121654	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121656	I wish I could confirm that, but I have to tell Mrs Pernille Vermund that this is not true. We've asked about that. That is why we have asked, and that is why it is good that we have had a thorough legal procedure. We've asked the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Food. The answer to question 182 shows that an activation of Paragraph 73 (1). 2 will mean that the payment of compensation and compensation will be postponed and that other legislation will have to be put in place. So if you do what the new citizens seem to want, there is no legal basis for paying the tempo bonus, there is no legal basis for paying any kind of compensation, and then you will take some families who have suffered enough, namely the minkkeepers, as hostages in a political game. And that's fair if you want to. The Left just won't be a part of that. We want to ensure better treatment for them than the one they have received from the government, but we have to recognise that in order for the government to be able to pay something, they must have an act in the Finance Committee or a bill in the Folketing. You have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121754	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121757	There is nothing to prevent us from making an agreement to pay compensation which does not force us to ratify the law that has been committed by the government. But peace be to it. The rapporteur himself says that this is a blank cheque on the left that, if you vote for it here, you give the left a blank cheque because the compensation is not in place. Does the rapporteur not see that when we activate Paragraph 73, it is our only option to ensure that it is not the left and the government that puts the fingerprint on the compensation, but that we can actually influence it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121833	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121837	Well, that is not quite true again, Mrs Pernille Vermund. We are in the blue block challenged by the fact that we do not have the majority, and as long as we keep fighting each other and the rapporteur's party is good at it, I have to say that we will not get the majority, and that is what I am fighting for in the Left, so that we can work together in the blue block so that we can have the majority. Then we would have ensured that these people had better treatment and proper compensation and that the Folketing would not have to legislate in one afternoon. But now we have to bow to the fact that the majority is somewhere else, and we cannot prevent that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121910	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221121918	Thank you, sir. President. I am also aware of what the rapporteur has said, in other words that the very link between this has been incredibly poor in terms of ensuring that the people's regime also works in terms of implementing legislation and, above all, the large compensation case, which there is, of course, and in which we may at least be talking about 20 billion. kr. Overall. I would like to ask the Left and the rapporteur about this particular clarification in relation to L 77, i.e. how the Left feels when, for example, on 2 December, the Danish People's Party convenes a consultation in the Committee on Business Affairs with the Minister for Food and Industry with a view to balancing the situation, i.e. the credit and financial crisis, which is with these 1,100-1,200 mink growing companies in Denmark, and the answer from the two ministers was that it only has time to find an hour and a half to process and explain and defend this financial crisis on 14 January 2021. Does the Left think that this is a good way to carry out a popular government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122020	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122025	No, I certainly do not think so, and it says something about the government saying that they want a lot of things, but that when it comes to their actions, both in this case and in other matters, there is not quite a connection. I mean, you say a lot of great things, that you're worried about the minkkeepers and that they don't have to suffer anymore, and so on, but when it comes down to it, you're acting differently and giving different priorities. After all, they are not the first government to do so often in politics, but in this case I now think it is reasonably clear, which is why it is unsatisfactory, and my party has backed Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's party in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure today to take this up with the Prime Minister and to have a proper discussion of the Folketing, and I hope that all parties will be able to support this. However, I think that the treatment given to this draft law is better than that initially proposed by the government for legislation in one afternoon. Now we've had a normal process with a lot of time. Then you might think that the government should have responded more quickly and made itself more available to me, and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122127	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122131	The question is also whether this tempo bonus, which has also been increased along the way, will not have an impact on the price or prices which a possible replacement case will result in in relation to average prices for minkskins, minkskins above average and minkskins below average, i.e. in quality. After all, there are many people in the industry who believe that this will have an unintended consequence, i.e. that the compensation prices that come later on in relation to the quality and price of the minkskins will also depend precisely on them now just getting some of the money a little in advance. Does the Left share the view on this issue as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122215	I must be honest and admit that I simply cannot give a clear answer to this from the platform. I understand the mechanics behind it, but I do not believe that it is something that is going to hit the minkkeepers adversely. But that is the best answer I can give at this stage. Although we would have liked to have seen something better than this bill, I think this bill is, after all, better than what the government started out with, and it gives these needy people who, like all of us, are about to face a Christmas, but some degree of security.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122245	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122253	I think the rapporteur is right to say that if the blue bloc continues to fight each other, then the current government will be doing well. And if you look at the supplementary report, it must be noted that the Left has, of course, clarified what they think in this matter, but has not managed to bring the blue block together for a common position. We cannot even say that we are voting in the same way on the amendments tabled to the draft law. So I think it looks really good. Then I have to say that the Left is not helping to secure Christmas for mink growers who have slaughtered their mink in a hurry. The bonus of 20 DKK. This bill guarantees too fast slaughter. The extra bonus of 10 kr. per In the case of the municipalities of North Jutland, the Left does not help to ensure that they do not vote in favour of this bill. Nor do they agree with the clarification of what compensation can be granted in the longer term. Does the rapporteur not see that it is quite true that the Left does not ensure Christmas for mink growers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122353	No, I don't see that. I simply do not see what the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten wants with that point. As I said at the outset, we have voted in favour of all the amendments that improve the legislative proposal, and now that we are at the finish line, we do not think that is good enough. But it will be adopted after all. Nor do I believe that there are many mink farmers out there who honestly believe that Enhedslisten wants them very well. The Enhedslisten has, in the years I've been in Parliament, fought minkavl. So I think they know how things stand. And then I can just say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur as such a historical curiosity that I remember what it was like under the Thorning Government, where Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party did not agree on much. This gives me a little optimism for the future, including in the blue block, so that after a little time in opposition, we find out that, instead of fighting each other, it is about looking at who the big opponent is. For us in the blue bloc, it is the current government and not each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122501	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122505	But the rapporteur is quite right that the Enhedslisten has been calling for a controlled dismantling of mink in Denmark for many years. Our model would have been much cheaper. It would have gone a little slower, we have to admit, but it would have been much cheaper. Then we must say that we are also ready to clean up. We just made an agreement with the government that the minks should be dug up. We found that this was the right solution. In this case, too, we have to note that the Left is not in favour of the constructive solutions, but that, from a populist point of view, the mines will have been dug up as soon as possible. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a little too much populism in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122539	I do not think it is a populist view when we are called by a food minister shortly before an agreement has been reached and when you ask orally whether we want to join in. Then you get some papers, and then you have to take a stand. I don't think that's a proper treatment, just as it's not a proper treatment... which was the government's and Prime Minister's original wish... to deal with this bill in an afternoon. So no, I simply do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122600	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122609	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that if Article 73 is initiated, we do not have to wait until after a parliamentary election, but that it can actually be withdrawn and then the law comes into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122617	No, I can't confirm that. This is the answer given by the Minister for Justice, namely that if you use that part of the constitution, there is no right to pay compensation, and therefore you take the mink as a hostage to this legal game. So no, I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122632	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122635	I think I will repeat my question because that is not the answer. I ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that you do not have to wait with section 73 until after a parliamentary election, but that you can withdraw it whenever you like. You don't have to let it go all the way after a parliamentary election. Therefore, § 73 is the only way this minority in the Folketing still has an opportunity to ensure proper compensation for mink growers. Right now it has been passed on to the majority, to the government and its socialists, who can now decide what they want. So I ask again: can one confirm that the initiation of Article 73 is not the same as that of Article 73?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122711	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122714	No, I cannot confirm that, because it is simply not right. But I can tell you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that if the blue block cooperates, not only in this case, but also in other matters, we have a chance to win a future parliamentary election, and then I can promise New Citizens that these mink growers will get better treatment than the one the government has given them in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. It is the case that I have three rapporteurs, Mr President. René Christensen, sir. Rasmus Jarlov and Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, which is why I have decided not to remove the A. It is also because, if we are going out, we need to clean the Chamber again. Of course, if it goes on, I'll do it, but I'll try it like this in the first place. Here you go, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221122813	Thank you for that, President. So we have at the end of L 77. And as the Left also said, it started with us making these decisions over an afternoon. Fortunately, it was the case that we got it in committee and got it properly dealt with. I happen to be chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Food, and I can say that it was good that we got it down to proper treatment. Some 200 questions have been asked. There has been a great deal of consultation. This case has, of course, filled a great deal, both for politicians and indeed for the public and, above all, for the mink growers concerned. So the matter has been well explained so far in many areas. However, as has been said, a committee of inquiry is now being set up to look at what actually happened. That is what I would just like to spend a little bit of my speaking time on. Is this really about mink? It is also about mink, but I and the Danish People's Party really hope that this case will help to ensure that future governments, regardless of their colour, do not find themselves in a situation such as the one in which the government has put itself, in which the Folketing has been placed and in which the citizens have been put. Because if you look at what the consequence was of the very quick decision to knock down all mink, then we don't even know the consequence today. Because, as has rightly been said, the compensation scheme has not yet been put in place. In fact, we find this very disturbing, given that we are standing here today and that L 77 is being voted through. I would like to say that this is why the Danish People's Party cannot vote for L 77. Of course, we want there to be a legal basis for paying compensation. We also want there to be a legal basis for payment of the tempo bonus. But we also want us to have known what it was that would then be paid out, given that we are now giving the legal basis for it, and we do not know that at this stage. What happened in the case was that when the decision was taken that all mink should be put down, we heard it time and again, namely that it was about public health. We were in the middle of a pandemic. Some quick decisions had to be made. We kind of agree that there should be. But when you look at it, you can look at many of the questions that have been asked that you have not found one sick mink on Funen, Zealand or Lolland-Falster. Many sick minks have been found in Jutland. We could also see that it moved very quickly. Therefore, there was absolute reason to act quickly in relation to killing mink. But was it all the mink that had to be killed? You can ask that question today, and you never get the answer. Because that has happened and we do not know what would have happened if it had not been done. It must also be said that it will be Christmas in a moment. And on many of the consultations we have had, I hear how ministers from various ministries have sat and said: 'Well, don't you want mink farmers to have their money?' Now we've made this decision, so don't you want the mink to be able to sleep calmly at night? Yes, some have even been crying in front of the mink and saying how terrible it is that we have put them in this situation. And then we stand here on 21 December, and we cannot tell the minkkeepers what is going to happen in relation to the fact that all their animals have been killed and their production has been completed in Denmark. It's not okay. We simply find it reprehensible that the government is now bringing this proposal down to the Assembly, so we have to vote on it today without having any idea what we are really voting on. We provide a legal basis or a legal basis, because we do not do so in the Danish People's Party, but no one knows what the legal basis is for. What is it supposed to do? What is the amount to be spent? Then it has become as if there has been such a number blindness, both in Danish society, but indeed also in this Chamber. As Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby said from his place before: Yes, we may be talking about 15-20 billion. kr. And that decision was made without the Folketing being involved in any way. In other words, 15 to 20 billion have been spent. tax crowns, without the Folketing being involved in any way. I understand if there are some social rapporteurs or others sitting in this Chamber thinking: what is happening? You can sit over in the Treasury and fight for a few million for some men's centers or something. You can fight to get 5-10 million. kr. for animal welfare and other. We are fighting for that politically. But a government, a few ministers, can only decide to spend up to 20 billion. kr. We really hope that when the committee of inquiry is completed, we will also have a tool so that, in future, whatever colour the government has, we will not find ourselves in a situation where we will have a legislative proposal similar to L 77, in which we will have to give a government, with retroactive effect, the power to carry out what it has already done. We cannot vote in favour, but we are, of course, pleased that we now have the legal basis for the mink growers to be compensated for the unfortunate disappearance of their profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221123318	Would you be so kind as to have a drink? Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221123333	This is a very violent matter in many ways. An historic decision has been taken to close down an entire profession. A two-digit billion sum has been spent without Parliament's involvement. There appear to be at least three very clear violations of law: on the one hand, there has been an illegal injunction to kill all mink in Denmark, and on the other hand, that a tempo bonus has been illegally offered without having the authority to do so, and on the other hand, that mink has been dug down in a way that has not been legally established either. There have been ministers who have given very dubious explanations along the way. There has been an enormously questionable basis for this whole decision, in which it has come to light that the authorities had not recommended that all healthy minks should be cut, despite the fact that this was what the Prime Minister, the Minister for Food and the rest of the government was trying to give a very clear impression of the need for this because of the authorities' recommendation. It was not true, it was a wrong decision and it was an illegal decision by the government. Now we have a bill against which we are fundamentally opposed and against which we are voting. We also have an opportunity for the Danish Parliament to object to the entry into force of the bill, because we have Section 73 of the Constitution, which says: "The right of property is inviolable. No one may be ordered to dispose of his property except where the public good so requires. This can only be done according to law and against total compensation. In other words, compensation for mink farmers does not depend on a political agreement. Compensation for mink growers is provided for in the Constitution. It's something you're entitled to. Those minkers who have killed their animals are entitled to total compensation. It's out of discussion. They have, because they have received an order that they have followed, and that is, of course, binding on the state. It cannot be that you come and give an order and then say: No, it was not an order, and even if you have now killed all your animals, you should not have any compensation. Pieces 2 in section 73 of the Constitution says that one third of the Folketing, i.e. 60 members may, within a period of three days from the date of application, be: after Christmas, from the final adoption of the proposal, require it to be nominated for royal confirmation only after the new elections to the Folketing have taken place and the proposal has again been adopted by the then-concluded Parliamentary Assembly. Conservative MPs are going to try to make use of this paragraph. We are still missing 48 Members, but we are at least going to do our part to ensure that the law does not enter into force until there is a political agreement. It is important to say that this paragraph. 2 well can be withdrawn. It can be undone. It cannot do so by saying that this is no longer the case, but it can do so by resubmitting the bill in the Parliamentary Chamber for a new reading, and then we can refrain from objecting to it the second time the bill is dealt with. We know, of course, that the Folketing can deal with such a bill here in an emergency procedure in a week's time, if you wish, so that in a week's time we can really put this into effect again. So it is not a final stop to the draft law, but it is a temporary stop to the proposal if we make use of paragraph 2. 2 of Paragraph 73 of the Basic Law. We think that would be a good thing to do because we have no agreement on compensation for mink farmers. The mink growers can go to the courts and claim their compensation, but we do not know what political agreement is otherwise being made. If we allow this bill to come into force, it is the Minister for Food who is allowed to lay down the rules for compensation. It puts us in a bad negotiating position that we are simply saying that the government can decide how the compensation should be, without the Folketing setting any counter-conditions. Therefore, we believe that it is clearly in the interests of the industry to use this 73 paragraph. 2. This ensures a better negotiating position in relation to the political agreement that we have still not negotiated, despite the fact that it has now been a month and a half since the order to kill all mink was issued. So we intend to do that, and then all we have to do is bring 48 other members of parliament. I guess that's about what you have in the Social Democratic Party, so maybe it's that social democracy wants to be involved. Otherwise, there may be others who would like to take part in opposing this bill. We think it is a totally unreasonable situation to put a profession in, and this provision of the Constitution is made precisely for this situation, because expropriation of human property is a very serious matter. That is why the fathers of the Constitution have provided us with this provision, which means that we cannot simply make such decisions without careful consideration and that we cannot do so in such chaotic conditions as have happened here. So that provision is tailored to this situation and we think we should make use of it. Then we look forward to the government negotiating an agreement on compensation in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221123905	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221123910	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservative People's Party. In a moment, our rapporteur, Peter Seier Christensen, is going to stand up and say something about the same thing. And that's why I just want to back up briefly and say that with our 4 mandates it's not much, but it's, after all, of course, part of the pool of signatures that needs to be made to ensure that this bill is pushed. And there are parties that say that it should be pushed at least until we are certain that this is a law which also includes a full and fair compensation for mink farmers. And then there are other parties who say that we do not like the law at all. Whatever the case, it is quite wrong from a citizen's point of view to allow this law to come into force now without recourse to the protection of minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221123957	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124000	We agree with that and then we have 16 mandates. It's a good start, you might say. We need a little more to be up to 60. But for us, it makes sense. And then I would also say that we simply think it is wrong to expropriate the growers' businesses that are out there. In fact, breeders still have their animals. It is very, very few growers that are left. But we do think that expropriation of one person's property is one person too much without there being a good reason for it. That is why we are voting against the bill and fighting it with everything we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124031	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124101	Thank you. I don't want to defuse the microphone. Someone tried it here a few days ago, and it didn't work out very well. The law, which we will vote through here in a moment, is a blue stamp of the government's violation of law, a blue stamp of an illegal decision to kill every mink. There is not, and never has been, a medical recommendation to kill all mink and thus de facto close an entire profession. It was only a political decision for which the government alone is responsible. The Folketing should not help to legalise this. It is not worthy of the people's regime that the Left and the Radical Left, at the push of a button, take a line over the government's illegal expropriation of an entire profession. This is not about whether you are for or against minkavl in Denmark, but it is about private business law. That is why I and New Citizens call on the Folketing to activate the protection of minorities in section 73 of the Constitution, which will force the government to postpone the entry into force of the law until after a parliamentary election. Let the Danes be heard first, it is the only reasonable thing, it is the only worthy thing. I therefore have the hope that my colleagues in the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the DF will help to bring together the 60 good men and women who, in this matter, will put private property and minority protection first and demand the postponement of the law after elections. We're up to 18 now. I can count on it. We have 3 working days from today to let our process run. After that, it's too late. Then the illegal acts are blue-stamped by the Folketing. The background is serious. On 4 November, the government decides that all minks in Denmark should be killed, including breeding animals. With this decision, the government is abolishing the de facto mink industry in Denmark, and the state becomes liable for the expropriation of an entire profession, a bill of two-digit billion dollars which the Danes have to pay. The expropriation has taken place without the legal basis laid down by the Constitution and without the matter being referred to the Folketing. The whole course will now be examined by the Danish Parliament in a formal course, where the Prime Minister and the other ministers responsible will be questioned and the proper context of the matter will be exposed to the Danes. I look forward to it. However, one thing is already quite clear: the mink farmers and the companies who have lived on the mink industry are entitled to full compensation for their losses. The right to full compensation is enshrined in the Constitution, and no one can mess with that powerful Prime Minister. The compensation must be paid, and this can only go too slowly, regardless of the fact that the government has acted illegally throughout the process. It does not change a fool on the responsibility of the state that the government and the left now post party, you might say, are trying to get a law in place that blue-stamps the government's violation of law. So there is no excuse for letting the law pass for the payment of compensation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124422	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments. I need to know if anyone else wants to speak. As this is not the case, we are ready for the vote. However, I would like to make sure that people are ready for the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124457	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124529	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124540	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124606	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124616	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 3 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124645	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124651	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124720	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124727	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124756	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124801	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124830	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221124839	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Two of the tax minister, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 56 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 42 (V, DF, KF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 1, also by the Minister of Taxation, as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Three of the tax minister, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 49 (S, RV, SF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 48 (V, DF, EL, KF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Four of the tax minister, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For voting 49 (S, RV, SF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against voting 41 (V, DF, KF and NB), abstentions 7 (EL). The amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125018	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125023	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 55 votes (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 43 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125051	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125106	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against voting 7 (EL), abstention 1 (ALT). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125127	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125142	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 86 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 12 (DF and NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125201	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125227	If there is no request for a vote, I consider Amendment No. 1 and 2 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125235	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125242	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 3 (NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125305	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125323	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125342	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 76 (S, V, DF, RV, KF and LA) voted against 10 (EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 11 (SF and NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125425	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125434	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125453	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125508	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 10 (EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125534	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125543	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125618	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125636	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125649	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 43 (V, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125725	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221125752	Thank you. After all, we are about to adopt a law which is much more intrusive than the law on mink, on corona or instructions or, for that matter, on a timely pension. It is about depriving more than two thirds of the population of one year of dignified old age. It is sad that the government and almost all parties are blind and deaf and silent when it comes to raising the retirement age to 69 years. Between the first and third readings, we have had two appearances. The first was two young carpenters, Jesper and Markus. One described the working conditions of his parents. It looked in many ways like his own, but they did not experience a dignified retirement. The father died right when he could go on early retirement. The young carpenter found that he had now been appointed to work 15 years longer than his parents were able to. The second delegation came from SKOF, the municipal specialist workers in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg you know, those who most think stand and rest the tail on a shovel like this half the day. Many people see them that way; that is not the way I can tell. We heard from them, and now I quote: We are tired of attending colleagues' funerals shortly after we have been at the farewell reception. And the second quote is: Our jobs are not designed for people in the ailing age. The latter made a great impression, for the man, who was in the mid-50s, specifically told how working life had changed just during the period when he had worked in the field. In the light of constant announcements of early tendering, more and more outside tasks had been cut away and the core tasks had become harder and harder. When he started being younger, it was obvious that the young people in the square took a harder roof for those who were a little up in the years, but now there was simply no surplus to take off and no one could take off for him. This gives the perfectly realistic explanation that the increased aids do not solve the problems, as is often claimed. Moreover, it also explains why average considerations are quite useless. When the great difference between the different working lives over time also becomes so apparent, it is necessary to think through the unrealistic idea that the retirement age can only increase and increase as the average age increases. The statutory increase in retirement age has been said in a different way and is in fact only affecting those with the worst pension scheme, the hardest jobs and the poorest conditions for finding other ways out. The majority of the population who experience it themselves are strongly opposed. One might wonder whether the Members of Parliament are living apart from reality. Does it not at all make the impression that the three largest trade unions, 3F, HK and FOA, and 100 local trade union organizations urge to pause the increase in retirement age and wait for the Pension Commission's reports and then try to shout us down from the Parliamentary Farm here today, where they know this is the last chance? But it is not until 15 years from now that the change will come into force, so those who will vote in favour can hope that it will lose a little bit in the mist of the vintages that will then drag themselves through the last few years into the labour market, who actually pushed them to the last drop of blood. When reality comes to light, the majority of the people will stand up for themselves with economic arguments, but in the legislative process, Enhedslisten has asked questions on the basis of the economic estimate of the fiscal impact of the bill. The answers show that the draft law will increase labour supply by 28,000 full-time people and strengthen public finances by 9 billion. kr. lasting. This estimate is based on a number of highly uncertain assumptions, in particular that the employment rate for the elders will increase in parallel with an increase in the retirement age to 69 years, even with more working hours per year. nose, which is very far from the realities that are today, and is not documented by any empirical experience. The financing of past tax concessions by the future rests on sand and pushes a heavy financial burden ahead of it. As has been shown on several occasions, the Enhedslisten votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130218	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Would you please wipe it off? Then I think we're ready for Mr. Kim. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130251	Stop this ever-increasing retirement age! Stop this acidification mechanism installed in ordinary people's lives! Two steps forward, one step backwards: First the Folketing adopts improvements for seniors, now here a moment later to want to weaken them. We just sucked air into our lungs, and immediately it has to be pulled back. The left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. It's like looking at a person who's in the process of pouring nice hot water into a bathtub, but forgot to put the stopper in the drain. But people can't just keep running for a finish line that keeps moving further away. We need the money for welfare, it sounds like. Well are worthy years as seniors with proper health, so you can be active with the grandchildren and your interests, not also welfare? Yeah, I think it is. But the only thing responsible is that we force the old people to keep working, because otherwise the bottom goes out of the treasury, that's what it sounds like. I think it might be better to force employers to allow seniors to work more flexibly and make it attractive to continue on the job, because then the people who can must probably continue. It's all wrong, this. Parliament will keep seniors in the labour market, while young people are being tightened up, who are in vain fighting to gain a foothold. 10,000 are looking for an internship, and 70,000 between the ages of 15 and 29 do not have an education and are not doing one and do not have a job either. An unhealthy and insecure working environment costs society billions, and every day sick reports swarm like snowcracks across all cracks in private and public workplaces. The only responsible and long-lasting thing is to solve these challenges instead of jump actions like pushing, tormenting, twisting and threatening the last theoretical ability out of a senior. It is as if the doors are not locked, but then at least bind heavily in relation to getting seniors out of the labour market and making room for young people to enter. The SF shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130506	Thank you. Would you please wipe it off? Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130517	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken now. The vote will end. In favour, 79 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA) voted against 18 (SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130549	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130604	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130613	The debate is about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130620	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, DF, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, RV, KF, NB, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130647	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130705	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130712	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130718	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130739	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130753	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (S, DF, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 43 (V, RV, KF, NB, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130816	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130834	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (DF, KF and NB), against 79 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130857	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130917	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (DF, KF and NB), against 78 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130940	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221130953	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 0, against 90 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (by mistake) and Susanne Zimmer (by mistake)), abstentions 7 (EL). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131016	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131035	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF and NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131059	After that, the debate is about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131105	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 41 (V, DF, KF and NB), against 56 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131145	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 9 (DF), against 88 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131209	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131224	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131247	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131312	No amendments have been tabled. But I understand Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131327	Thank you, sir. President. I take the floor, both because we have written in committee together with the Danish People's Party and other parties that we will explain our position on the bill here, and because together with the Danish People's Party we have tabled an amendment to use L 48 to balance the payments in the AUB system, a case that we can say has taken up for several years because it has meant that the employers in Denmark have overcharged payments. We also had the discussion last December in connection with L 60, where a majority in the Folketing unfortunately refused to strike a balance in payments and payments. This led in the spring to criticism by the National Audit Office and subsequent State Auditors that there was no balance in the schemes. If we maintain the amendment which then goes on to L 48, which is then basically followed by L 120, where there is something similar, but where the amount is corrected less, then it is simply because we have not been able to get sufficient and satisfactory answers from the government in committee on what the real feature is on the AUB scheme, and so we cannot say that the amount included in the amendment to L 48 cannot be as correct as the amount included in L 120, and that is why we think it is a good thing that we also have the opportunity to vote on the amendment we originally tabled to L 48 before the subsequent draft law was tabled as an emergency legislative proposal as a result of the tripartite agreement and on which we shall vote afterwards. This does not alter the fact that we will ultimately vote in favour of both the draft L 48 which is being discussed here, and also L 120 which is being dealt with subsequently, but we think it is a bad idea that, despite several questions and answers in committee, we have not been able to get answers and insight into what the economy really looks like, because it makes it difficult for the Folketing to check whether the payments to the AUB will be balanced in the future. We would like to ask for both legislative proposals, i.e. both L 48 and L 120, which will be dealt with under the next item. I will now say this back to the committee between the second and third readings, but will vote in favour of both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131543	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131550	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (V, DF, KF and NB) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 41 (V, DF, KF and NB), against 56 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I understand that it has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131630	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131651	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I understood that it was also this bill that was requested to be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131708	Amendments have been tabled. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag) has informed me that she wishes to accept Amendment No. 1 of the report back. Does anyone wish to maintain this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. The members of the Unity List have informed me that they wish to accept Amendment No. 2, 3 and 5 of the report remain. Does anyone wish to maintain these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221131744	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 and 7, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and LA), on Amendment No. 4 or on Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee, or Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.35, so we can clean the Parliament Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133527	The sitting is resumed. The debate has been opened and the first rapporteur should have been Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, but I assume it's Mr. Stoklund. Lars Aslan Rasmussen instead. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133604	Thank you, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we are very much in favour of the repatriation scheme, but there is a huge gap in the present law on repatriation. We learned this from the tragic case of the young woman Huda Ali Ahmad, who was brutally killed by her ex-husband, Hussein Abbas, during a stay in Syria. At the same time, Hussein Abbas killed their eight-year-old son. In several press articles we read that Hussein Abbas came to Denmark from Syria as asylum seeker in 2015. In February of this year he chose to repatriate to Syria, and in this connection he received his first instalment of repatriation aid of about 100,000 kroner. The absurdity of this case, which is also the reason for this bill, is that Hussein Abbas stands to receive his second instalment of repatriation aid. This means that, despite killing his ex-wife and his 8-year-old son, he is about to receive a little more than DKK 100,000. In addition to the DKK 100,000 already paid out to him. This is madness, because unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to prevent a repatriated killer from being paid the second instalment of his repatriation aid, as it would involve expropriation and thus be contrary to the Constitution. The death of Huda Ali Ahmad is a tragic reminder of the freedom struggle in which thousands of women originating in the Middle East find themselves. That is why I am looking forward to the first reading of another legislative proposal a little later today, which is strengthening the fight against negative social control. Of course, repatriated persons should not have paid Danish tax dollars after they have committed serious crime. This bill will be put to an end so that the remaining part of the aid for repatriation and reintegration assistance for repatriated foreigners who have committed serious crime can be withheld in the future. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133750	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. It is, of course, a neglect that goes back a long way, but it is something that has only now been updated and something that the Folketing has become aware of in connection with the tragic case, which the rapporteur also mentions, from Syria. We discussed earlier this year a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which won the support of a majority in the Danish Parliament, which very specifically said that we want the second installment in this particular case stopped. Does the rapporteur not agree that a clear majority of the people asked for the second instalment to be stopped in the specific case and that it is a day of sorrow, and I would almost be tempted to say that it is also a day of shame that it is not possible? So why is it precisely that the government is putting forward a bill that does not deal with the unfortunate situation of the payment of the second repatriation rate to a man who has allegedly killed both his son and his wife?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133854	I would very much regret this course of action. I don't think anyone wants this person to have this money. That is why it is also being directed forward, so that hopefully we do not end up there again. I hope that the Danish People's Party is happy about that too. And this applies both to people who have committed gang crimes, drug crimes and, in this case, to two murders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133911	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133912	That's not the answer to the question, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. We have a coincidence, and fortunately only a coincidence, but we would also like to deal with that case. I just have to say that the proposal put forward by the government here does not deal with it. Is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen does not agree that even if this is adopted, the assassinated Syrian man will still be paid the second installment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133939	Yeah, unless it's possible to stop it. But I guess this isn't just about the Syrian man. In general terms, it is a question of avoiding similar situations, because unfortunately there are a number of foreigners who have committed serious crime, and there we will be able to use this scheme forward-looking if we have the legislation corrected, which we hope will be done now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221133954	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134014	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Left we support the law of repatriation, because it is a good tool for getting more foreigners to voluntarily return home or return to a former country of residence. However, we should not pay out money to repatriates who commit crime in their country of origin. That's never been the point of the law. It undermines popular confidence in the laws we adopt here in the Folketing when such matters can exist. In February we became aware that the Danish authorities are obliged to pay repatriation aid to a Syrian man, despite the fact that he is in custody in Syria charged with killing his wife and son of the couple, he has also confessed to the Kurdish police. The husband's wife was a resident 26-year-old fugitive who, on 13 February this year, disappeared from Funen and 9 days later was found killed in Syria. A few days before the murder, the man was paid out the first of two installments of just over 100,000 kroner. from the Danish state. It is a repatriation aid which, among other things, is: goes to new passports, plane tickets, transport costs and medicine. Now we have soon on February 13, 2021, when the same man is again paying more than DKK 100,000. by the Danish state, even if he is convicted of double homicide. We in the Left find this totally unacceptable, and with the current legislation we must understand that we cannot do anything about it. So we have an obvious hole, and that hole has to be closed. On the basis of that case, it would seem that there are more holes to be closed. That is why we in the Left, hopefully together with a resounding yes in the Danish Parliament, welcome this proposal to amend the law on repatriation in the same way as all parties in the Danish Parliament supported a motion for a resolution on the amendment of the law on repatriation earlier this year. After all, no one disagrees that Denmark should not provide financial assistance at all to persons who have committed such serious crime after returning to their country of origin or to a former country of residence. The Minister feels the same way, I have to understand. We in the Left are delighted about that. In the Left, of course, we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134237	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134242	As I recall, earlier this year the Left was included in the motion for a resolution we tabled in the Danish People's Party, which was also specifically intended to meet the challenge of the man accused of murder in Syria, whom the majority of the Danish Parliament did not want to have sent the second instalment. I now understand that the Left will vote uncritically in favour of the proposal put forward by the government and therefore will not solve the specific problem. Now, you solve it in such a way that forward-looking people who commit crime will not be able to get paid the second instalment, but so, why is it that the Left in this brilliant and disgusting case, where a double killer now gets money from the Danish taxpayers, has only looked forward today and no longer talks about what I think a united Parliament otherwise agreed was the main problem when we dealt with this a few months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134338	If the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party believes that you stand here uncritically and support it, I think it is because you have not listened to what I said. Because I specifically mentioned that there is just a • and this shows the case with all the clarity • gaps that need to be patched up. We support the draft law from the Minister here today because it is going to deal with matters in the future, and I must also understand from the answers given to the minister by the rapporteur for the DF that it is more than difficult to resolve the backwards. But of course we in the Left are interested: if the rapporteur has any good proposals, bring them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134409	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134410	But if Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen had taken part in the consultations we have had with the Minister, she would also know that we have put forward some rather concrete proposals. We propose, among other things, that the date of entry into force should be set at such a time, i.e. at a later date, that the person accused of murder should be included. If a question arises as to whether the action will be expropriative, the person who considers himself entitled to be expropriation must go to court. It follows from Article 73 (3) of the Constitution. 3, in which I think most members of parliament are now quite well versed. So that is the solution we have set out. I just did not hear Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen welcome it in her rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134451	I am sorry if I have not done so, because I have read the answers which have come from the Minister to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. It is, of course, impossible under the Constitution and under the cases that have been backwards, but we in the Left welcome the fact that we are looking at whether there are some things that can be resolved in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134509	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134532	It's always good to rely on the Constitution. It's actually one of the best things we have. As has been mentioned, the draft law is the expiry of a very specific matter which has been discussed, and it has been dealt with by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt also repeatedly explained in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. It is a case from spring 2020, when a resident Syrian man who had arrived in Denmark in 2015 as a refugee had returned to Syria with repatriation support. The man had then lured his wife and their 8-year-old son down there, and then he had killed them. First installment of the repatriation grant of about DKK 100,000. has been paid out, and the second instalment of just over DKK 100,000, where the payout falls in February 2021, cannot be withheld because the law today does not allow it. No one in the past has thought that such a situation could arise where we were forced to pay the money to a murderer. It is sad that this is happening, but it is hardly possible to blame any governments for it, neither red nor blue. It is therefore clear and logical that the gap in the law must be closed as soon as possible. And let it be said plainly that if the Danish authorities forget to send the second installment of money to the murderer in Syria, where he is in prison, the Minister or others will not hear an evil word about it from the Danish People's Party. And I would like to call on the government, in general terms, to introduce rules throughout the legislation that allow the authorities to withhold money which should be paid out if the recipient commits serious crimes or is charged with such crimes. We wouldn't want to see similar cases anywhere else in public. Of course, the possibility of withholding funds already allocated must be present. If a person, e.g. is granted early retirement or something else, suddenly jumping out as a terrorist, it cannot be the intention that it is an acquired right that cannot be withdrawn. I hope the Minister will join us. So I assume that the bill closes the gap in the law, and the Danish People's Party therefore naturally supports the proposal. However, I should also like to ask the Minister to comment on the remarks made by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt has made two brief comments, because I think that is actually worth taking along too, and I would very much like to hear the Minister's comments on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134803	Thank you for the floor. If, at the time of the application, you meet the conditions for, for example, repatriation assistance or reintegration assistance, but do not do so at the time of the payment itself later, because after the application and until the payment of repatriation aid or the continued payment of reintegration assistance you commit serious crime or other things that would remove your residence basis, it is not logical that you can continue to receive the payment in question. That is why the Radical Left welcomes this bill, which, after all, corrects some of the points that have been raised in the past in this debate, that is to say, the matter that has been before this year. The Radical Left will also ask some questions in the committee procedure itself to see if we can make this law even better, namely that we will be aware of the rather low level of evidence required for the retention of the benefit. It makes sense immediately that there are, of course, lower proof requirements for detention than if there were actual cancellations, but this is not a decision in the proper sense of administrative law, we would like to ask further questions to see if we could do it even better. Because it may be a little problematic when the requirement of proof, among other things. is about things like that with rumours in the media, etc., and if you do not know through a justification that this is the reason for the detention, it is difficult to get through on the basis of it. So the Radical Left welcomes the bill, but also has some things that we would like to discuss further in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221134948	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135028	Thank you. Today, we are going to deal first with a legislative proposal that will withhold the remaining part of aid for repatriation and reintegration assistance in the event of serious crime, etc. committed after repatriation. It's about time, too, I guess. I am quite incomprehensible that we have not been aware of this before. This bill has been created on the basis of repatriation aid to a refugee who ended up killing his wife, Huda, and their 9-year-old son. This is an important matter. Unfortunately, as it is now, we have not been able to find a solution to the obvious injustice that a murderer has been able to get away with such a grotesque act and even retain his financial support. We are going to change that in the future, and that is good. For no one should benefit from taxpayers' hard-earned tax dollars in repatriation aid and at the same time commit serious crime, such as murder, as we have seen with Huda's husband in a matter which is very close to my heart and which I will not let go. I hope that the Minister will once again reverse the entire legislation and find out whether we can at least give financial support to the twins who are left behind. They are little girls who have not only lost their mother and brother, but also their familiar surroundings and friends here in Denmark. Minister, we're We can't use the argument about the waiver of residence permits on these kids. After all, it has lapsed, because that is the basic rules, but if we think it is unfair, then we can change the rules. Minister, Denmark has a responsibility here, if nothing else, from a humanistic point of view. Let's at least make sure these girls have a future here in Denmark. The mother had to die because she wanted freedom. I don't want these girls to suffer the same fate. With these concluding remarks, I would like to say that the SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135307	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135313	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz, both for the speech here, but also for the support for the resolution we discussed earlier this year. I see a rapporteur from the SF who has been deeply involved and engaged in the good way, and it is nice that we can say "cross the right and left', after all, sometimes let the heart rule. So praise for that. What is my concern is precisely what Mrs Halime Oguz says about whether you cannot take this money and give it to the twins who are left behind. After all, this is not being dealt with by the proposal put forward by the government here. We would like to try to deal with this either by some amendments or by a subsequent legislative proposal, and I would just like to hear whether we can continue the cooperation between the SF and the Danish People's Party in this regard too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135406	Thank you for that, and thank you for raising this case. I'm really, really grateful for that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. That's what I'm gonna say. I can assure the questioner that he will bring SF all the way through in this matter, as long as it is, of course, based on our rule of law. It can't be illegal. As long as it is not unconstitutional, I can assure you that the SF is with us all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135442	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135443	I am very pleased about that, and the good news is that we in the Danish Parliament earlier today under item 8 dealt with a draft law, L 77, which is probably expropriative, but the government has chosen to let it hover in the air. Of course, I also expect that we can do that in this matter, with the difference that we all want the mink to be compensated and help with it. In this case, we would all like to avoid compensation for the murder accused in Syria, which is why he must, in accordance with Article 73 (3) of the Constitution. 3. ensure that that claim is brought before the courts. Doesn't Mrs Halime Oguz agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135524	I very much agree that a murderer should not, of course, have the remaining money. I do not think we can defend that to our taxpayers. But we also have a constitution. As long as it is not unconstitutional, I would like to say that the SF agrees and agrees with Mr SF. Mr Messerschmidt's amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135552	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135610	Thank you. After all, it has never been the intention of the Return Act to be able to receive aid if serious crime is committed subsequently, as we all know in the case which has also been mentioned from the platform several times today. It is therefore, overall, unproblematic for us in the Enhedslisten if the second instalment of the payment is withheld if the recipient has in the meantime been convicted of serious crime. However, there are some problems associated with this, we think that the right of appeal in cases of withdrawal of aid is very, very important. In several of the countries where people are repatriated from Denmark, legal certainty and human rights are not something that is at the Danish level or at the top of the agenda. Even in rich countries, there are people who are convicted of terrorism simply because they have expressed a disagreement with the current government on social media or for demonstrations. It is therefore important if we are to be able to face ourselves, and I think that we should be able to measure the possible cases of serious crime according to Danish standards of legal security. It is important that it is relatively easy for those covered by the draft law to be able to complain about a decision. It is therefore not enough for the matter to be dealt with before the courts in the first instance, as it is very costly and often impossible if you are repatriated. The Minister has noted in consultation notes that this will create a new situation for the Ankestyrelsen, but this is also a completely new type of case, which we must at the same time assume will be very few of, and therefore we should not cut off access to administrative recursion. In addition to these comments, we can support the bill from the Enhedslisten side. However, I would just like to add that it is a mistake for us to make legislation on a case-by-case basis. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135820	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135834	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. We Conservatives are very pleased with the repatriation scheme. We also think we can try to adjust it even more in relation to how the instalments are paid, but in relation to this bill, of course, it is common sense. It is a pity that the government has not yet acted on the very good motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which I think brought together the entire parliament, to slow down the payment to the double murderer. But I hope that Parliament will be able to hold on to the government so that they will actually do something when it has now been adopted as a motion for a resolution. However, in relation to this bill, which then corrects things forward-looking, but unfortunately not backwards, we of course wholeheartedly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135921	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221135942	The Danish law on foreigners is absurd: we let people into our country and give them residence permits and the right to public support, although we could have helped them and many more much better in the vicinity. We accept that some of them become criminals, abuse our hospitality and exploit the generosity of the Danes. And we are gradually turning them into immigrants with permanent residence permits and the right to lifelong support. This has proved to be a really stupid way of conducting foreign policy, and changing governments have tried to patch up the system over the last few decades in order to eliminate some of the harmful consequences. One of these patches is called the repatriation service. It means that the Danes pay large amounts of cash to foreigners in order to get them to go home to their own country and yet another absurdity. First you let in a lot of people who shouldn't have been let in at all in the first place. Then you give them access to paid education and training and then offer them money to go out again. This is foolish and should cause any politician responsible for this system to crumble toes when it comes to defending it. Some of the foreigners the Danes pay money to repatriate even regret: They come back to Denmark and troops up to the municipality after spending the money they have already received and want cash assistance again. They'll get it. New citizens will never back such absurd patching solutions. We believe, as we have always done, that foreign policy must be resolved from the bottom up. That is why a stop must be put to spontaneous asylum, we must show criminal foreigners consistently and after the first sentence, and then we must demand that all foreigners in this country support themselves. If they can't, they'll have to go somewhere else. It's simple, and it's fair. Today we are discussing a bill which will put a patch on an incredible frivolous face committed by the Danish Parliament: a repatriation scheme has been created whereby the Danish state is obliged to pay out money to a convicted wife and child murderer abroad. How foolish it is to legislate! Obviously, the limits of foolishness are far from reasonableness and justice. Today's bill is to close this gap in the future, not to correct the basic absurdity of the Danes paying money to foreigners to go home, nor to stop the payment to the said killer. In New Citizens we have decided to vote in favour of the proposal, knowing that it does not solve anything fundamental in the failed alien policy. If foreign policy is to be resolved, it must be resolved from the bottom up. All foreigners must support themselves, and if they cannot, they must travel. The boxes should not be opened any more to foreigners; they must be closed. Maybe we can give them to the ticket, but then no more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140303	What Mrs Pernille Vermund says in her rapporteur's speech, we can agree very much, and then I sit and think that it is then 20 seats in the Danish Parliament that mean 16 from the Danish People's Party, 4 from New Citizens. That's where we are. And we must continue to work on that, we are absolutely prepared to do so, but the situation is as it is, namely that no one else has the view that it has to be resolved from scratch and everything else. We agree, and we have meant it all the years, but we lack the mandates. We're working on it. With regard to the repatriation scheme, I would like to say that I understand Mrs Pernille Vermund's point of view, but it is actually a very good business for the public, for the state, to send them home with financial support. That is the way it is, and that is what I am looking at, namely that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has calculated that it will pay 2.2 million. kr. in savings per year; adult immigrant who goes home. I think that's worth taking too. There are gaps, and fortunately the Minister has for a long time promised that we should have a good look at it, probably with a background in this very, very unhappy case, but there are other things too. And in fact, I think that New Citizens, bearing in mind that this is a saving, should be included and say that where it is unfair and unfair, we will pull ourselves together and close those gaps.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140426	When new citizens vote in favour of this proposal, it is precisely in recognition that there is no majority in favour of resolving the problems from scratch. When we say that this is a patchy solution and, after all, recognise that there are foreigners travelling out and thus saving the Danish state some money, we also say that if we had closed the box instead, which I am quite sure we agree that we should do, then the amount we saved would be considerably greater. So I argue that we close the box for foreigners and say that if foreigners come to Denmark, they must support themselves, and if they cannot, they must leave. However, in recognition of the fact that there is no majority in favour of this, we will, of course, be voting in favour of a proposal which hopefully will prevent other criminals from being entitled to pay out from the public sector in the future, and we would also very much like to support the amendments that I understand DF is making.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140518	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140523	That's really fine, because we do, but that's not really what I was talking about. One cannot but vote in favour of this proposal, and that is also why a united Parliament will vote in favour of it; it would be completely foolish. What I was dealing with was that the repatriation scheme itself actually benefits the economy in the end. There are holes that need to be closed, but it benefits. There will be more money for us at home, for everything we would like to use them for, because we have that scheme, compared to if we had not had that scheme. And then it's just my logical sense that says okay. It should then be explained to people, because you might as well say that they shouldn't have a penny and they just have to go home, but it just doesn't work, and sometimes you just have to be pragmatic in order to make things slip better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140608	But the fact that there is no majority in favour of closing the box for foreigners who are staying in Denmark and saying that a prerequisite for coming here as a foreigner, no matter what the arrangement is, is that you support yourself, and if you can't do that, you have to go home, you don't change that it's our policy and that that's what we're fighting for. When there are specific proposals like this, we will of course vote in favour, but that does not mean that we will change our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140632	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. On the other hand, I can see that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is standing by as a privateist. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140658	Thank you, President. When I take the floor as a privateist, it is not because I disagree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on the draft law. This is simply because it was originally the undersigned who wrote the motion for a resolution which received broad support here in the Folketing when we discussed it earlier this year. And it is a pity that the bill that the government is now putting forward does not solve the specific challenge we face with the bitter and violent case from Syria, especially because the government's own behaviour in other contexts has highlighted how simple it could have been resolved. The whole debate we had earlier today on L 77, where the government is putting forward a legislative proposal which is expropriative in its content, but in its name it is not, underlines how simple this matter could have been resolved. Of course, we should have tabled a bill with retroactive effect, which is fully compatible with the Constitution, and leave it up to the courts to decide whether or not the intervention was to be expropriation, just as it is left to others to decide whether or not L 77 would be expropriative. And in that case, of course, it had to be the courts that had to decide. It is completely indicated in section 73 of the Constitution; it is kind of a manual for how to run it. You go down in pieces. 3, you can see that it is the courts that are dealing with this sort of thing. This, of course, simply requires that if you feel offended, that is to say if there is something that you think has been taken from someone as an expropriative intervention, then you have to go to the courts, and I think that the murderer in question should do so with all the logistical and legal difficulties that might be involved in it. And if he doesn't do it within the time limit, the money won't be paid out. This could have been resolved, Minister, but the Minister did not want that, and I really think that is a pity, because this is an unfortunate affair. It is a tragic and both human and legally untenable situation that, despite the forthcoming adoption of this bill, the Folketing will nevertheless send, it is well over DKK 100,000. Off to this person down in Syria. I find this regrettable, and so I would just like to give an indication that we are going to table amendments which change the nature of this draft law. And I would like to thank Mrs Halime Oguz for already giving support to those amendments. Hopefully, we will then be able to ensure across the Folketing that this can run through the supposedly against the Social Democratic votes, yet by a majority so that the last installment to the assassinate in Syria is not paid out. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221140949	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141003	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the receipt of the draft law and for the debate that has taken place today in the Parliamentary Assembly. I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to discuss the detailed content of the legislative proposal in this Chamber today and in the past and that there is broad support for the proposal. As you know, the draft law stems from motion for a resolution B 176, tabled by the Danish People's Party before the summer holidays. It was up-to-date by the tragic case, where after returning to Syria with financial support from Denmark after the enlightened has killed his wife and son. After all, it is a matter that has deeply touched on all of us who have worked on this issue and who are still making an enormous impression on all of us every time we think about it. In my view, we have basically seen a good and attractive repatriation scheme, that is, a system of return aid, but it is of course quite wrong for people who have received financial support to return home and who, after returning home, commit serious crime to be able to receive additional aid from Denmark in accordance with the current rules. The specific case from Syria has shown, from a very sad background, that there has been a need to look at this arrangement. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad consensus on closing this gap. That's exactly what the bill is about. It must ensure that we do not again see tragic cases in the future similar to what has been called the Huda affair in the media. I will not go through the whole bill in detail here from the platform, but say that the overall purpose of the draft law is to introduce a new system into the law, which will mean that the payment of the second instalment of the financial aid that a person can get from the Danish State when he wishes to return to his country of origin or former Member State of residence is conditional on a person, for example. do not commit serious crime after leaving. The bill contains a similar scheme in cases where a person chooses to return home with reintegration assistance it is the pension-like monthly benefit. More specifically, it is proposed that persons who, following the decision to grant aid to return home but before the request for the second instalment of aid, commit acts that would exclude a foreigner from the residence permit in this country are not entitled to the second instalment of the aid. A similar arrangement will apply, according to the proposal, to persons who, after the decision on reintegration assistance but before the end of the assistance, commit acts that would exclude a foreigner from the residence permit in this country. The proposal is based on a general premise that, in principle, the time when, for example, a criminal relationship has taken place, that is to say, whether the relationship has been committed prior to or after the repatriation should not affect, in principle, whether a person wishing to return home can receive financial support from the Danish State. To me, it's perfectly obvious. The proposal also ensures that the payment of additional aid on return can be withheld when information is available which gives reason to believe that the person concerned, for example: has committed serious crime following the decision to grant aid. The possibility of withholding aid in those cases is, in my view, an important instrument to ensure that the aid is not actually paid out while the authorities are looking into the matter in depth. In addition, it is proposed that the payment of the second instalment of the aid in the country of origin should be subject to the condition that the person declares not to be accused, accused or convicted of a criminal offence during the period following the decision of the municipal council, but before the request for payment of the second instalment of the aid. If it turns out that the declaration was incorrect, the proposal ensures that the aid must, of course, be repaid. Among other things: In order to avoid a disproportionate administrative burden on a new and complex subject area, it is proposed that the Foreigners' Board should assess whether the conditions under the Aliens' Act are met in order to exclude a foreigner from the residence permit in this country. The Foreigners' Board is already assessing whether this is the case in, among other things, Denmark. asylum and family reunification proceedings. According to the proposal, the municipal council will then have to decide whether or not to withdraw the repatriation aid on the basis of the assessment by the National Council for Foreign Affairs. The proposal therefore allows as far as possible appropriate administration in the municipalities, while at the same time taking the necessary action with the payment of additional aid in the event of, for example: serious crime. I would like to conclude by thanking you for today's debate on the various parts of the legislative proposal, and I have noted, as I have said, that there is support for the legislative proposal and the overall objective of a new regulation in the law, which will mean that repatriation aid is conditional on a person not committing serious crime. I look forward to the further discussion today in the Chamber and to the further consideration of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141459	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141506	Thank you. I understand from the Minister that one is surprised or that it surprises the government and politicians in general that there is a man who has received repatriation benefits who goes back to his country of origin and commits serious crime. Now that you have this arrangement, I guess it's because there are some foreigners in Denmark that you'd rather see the backside than the front of. I mean, you'd like to see them go out. When we want to see them travel, it is because they are a financial burden and because they are too much part of the crime statistics. So how can it come to the surprise of a majority in the Folketing? And now I have to ask: how can it come to the surprise of the Social Democratic Party that when you make a return service for some people who we know more than others commit crime, they also have this behavior when they come back to their home country? And how can we maintain a service to some people that, if we closed the box to them, we would easily get rid of? Now you reward them for going out. How can you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141615	Of course, I can only speak on my own behalf, but I was rather shocked when I read the first articles on this matter. I think it is completely grotesque and crazy what has happened. It is, of course, an arrangement that we have had for a very, very many years. And I think that when the debate on crime between the first and second instalments comes only now, it must be because there have not been such grotesque cases in the past. This does not mean that no one has been repatriated before, who has committed crime, but that it has certainly not been crime of a nature that has created so much public debate and virkulation in Danish society. And that is probably because the victims of that crime were people who actually had a residence permit in this country and on whom I think we all agree are the real victims in the case we are discussing today. Then perhaps I do not think it is quite right to say that this system was created to get people out of the country. It is also created for some of the first guest workers, having been in Denmark for a number of years, to have the opportunity to return home and perhaps live their third life or their old age in their home country and get a bag of money with them from the Danish society. healthcare, and thus they could get a bag of money home and re-establish life in their home country. It doesn't have to have anything to do with crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141734	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141736	Now the Minister says that the foreigners who receive this benefit have paid to Danish society, but that is not a prerequisite for obtaining it. It is not a prerequisite that we have contributed to Danish society. You may well have lived here and been on public support and so few money with you when you have to go home. If it were the case that it was people who contributed to Danish society and which was a gain for our society that we paid money to, then it would be double crazy. But right now we are paying some money to some people who are, to a large extent, a nuisance to our society. If we closed the box, would they be here? No, of course they wouldn't. Would there be more of their type? No, of course not. When we open the box so that they can get money when they leave, do we lure more people here? Yeah, probably. Are we going to pay to people who commit crime and who are sloppy in the world? Yeah, so do we. And so do we, even though the cases that are happening around us do not come to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141835	It is true that it is not a prerequisite for receiving the aid that public aid has never been received; that is true. Now I'm just saying how it has been historically justified. I read, for example. Once an interview with Henrik Sass Larsen, who said that he had been to a meeting in SiD Køge, where a number of Turkish guest workers had got up and said that they had been happy to work in the industry in Køge, but now they had come at the age when they wanted to go home to Turkey. And then there had been a discussion about whether it is not reasonable to have a bag of money brought home from Danish society when you have paid taxes here from your industrial workplace in Køge all your life and you have not intended to draw on the Danish welfare society as a pensioner. Well, I think it's a good idea for a small globalised economy to say: you can come here and work, and we're demanding a relatively high tax, but if you'd rather be a pensioner in your home country, then it's an honest matter; then we can't pay what corresponds to our costs of healthcare, folk pensions and home help, but we'd like to give you an acknowledgment. And I think this makes a great acknowledgment, I'd like to admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141935	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221141939	Thank you, President. I should just like to ask how it can be that when it comes to mink growers who have expropriated their profession, the government can find out how to put forward a bill that does not clearly state that it is an expropriation and that therefore you should not have expropriation compensation under Paragraph 73 of the Constitution, but when it comes to someone who has allegedly murdered both his spouse and a child in Syria, it is a huge problem for the government to avoid paying this repatriation allowance, because then suddenly you mean with a completely rocky knowledge that it is expropriative. So, how can it be that something that is so foreign in Denmark should be treated in one way, while mink growers and a huge profession are treated in such a weird, vague way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142037	I think I should try to avoid interfering in the bill put forward by the Minister for Food. But I can at least say that there must be three conditions in order to expropriate. Because, of course, the Folketing can adopt legislation that is expropriating, otherwise we would not be able to build a motorway. Point 1: There must be a clear legal basis. Paragraph 2: It must be for the general good. I think we can argue in this particular case. However, as paragraph 3, full compensation must also be granted. So that would mean that if we adopted such a bill, if it were otherwise possible to link it legally, we, as a government, would have to actively seek out the person concerned and ensure that full compensation was paid. Just as one cannot just cut a corner of a field and build a highway and say that the farmer himself must come and address himself if he is angry, one must here as a state actively look for compensation, and I see no reason to actively turn to Huda's ex-husband and provide him with full compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142142	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142145	Well, there are plenty of examples of cases where the state or where it has been thought that intervention was general regulation, and then the affected one has brought it before the courts, after which the courts have said that no, this is expropriation, and it is true that in that case you have to pay compensation. The important thing is to move the obligation to act on to those who feel that they are wronged, and that is what would be so easy here. For the person who apparently everyone in the Folketing agrees not to have the money would have a little bit of difficulty in doing something to activate his injury, because he sits under the circumstances, well accused and self-inflicted, as he now does. That is why it is so strange that when it comes to mink growers, the government says that ah, on the one hand, and on the other, and that it is probably not really expropriation etc., because in reality one would rather give something a little less than expropriation compensation, but when it comes to someone who is agreed by the whole parliament not to have its repatriation aid and not to have what one to one would be financially the same, namely compensation, yes, there is no doubt whatsoever in law. That is a marvelous discrepancy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142246	Well, I myself am one of the 179 members of parliament who, in the spring, pressed the green button and decided that if it were even possible within the framework of the Constitution to adopt legislation that would have an impact on people who had already received the first instalment and who had committed crime but had not received the second instalment, then we would have to implement such legislation. But I cannot stand today as a minister with a Danish official work in the back, either from my own ministry or from the Ministry of Justice, and say that it can be done. That is why the legislative proposal contains forward-looking regulation, and there are also some transitional arrangements that give us some scope, but it will not be concrete legislation with backwards force, which means that the specific case that has been the subject of so much discussion will be included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142338	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142404	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142420	With this bill, we will ensure that a foreigner who does not have the right to reside in Denmark can prevent a broadcast by refusing to be examined for covid-19. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is absolutely essential that foreigners who do not have the right to reside in the country leave Denmark as soon as possible. For example, it is expensive for Denmark to house rejected asylum seekers. It costs the Danish state an average of DKK 300,000 annually. to have a refused asylum applicant accommodated at an exit centre in Denmark. That money could instead be spent at 800 home help hours for the benefit of our elderly or used to send needed relief to 600 children who are staying close to the conflicts in the vicinity. It is absolutely crucial that it is the Folketing and the people who decide which third-world people are allowed to stay in this country, and when a foreigner is not entitled to stay in Denmark, he must contribute to his or her own departure. That's the way it's supposed to be, 'cause right has to be right. The reason for this bill is that several airlines and countries are demanding negative covid-19 tests from foreigners to leave Denmark. The bill will make it possible to require a foreigner to be examined for covid-19 or other infectious diseases in connection with a broadcast of Denmark, and if the alien refuses to be tested, it will be possible to carry out an investigation with coercion, which is right and reasonable. The draft law therefore prevents foreigners who have to leave Denmark from being sent out by refusing to be examined. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142603	Thank you for the floor, President. During the covid-19 crisis, the Danes have had to give up a great deal for public health and for the sake of Danish society. That is why I personally regard it as an insult to us Danes and our great efforts during the crisis if and when a foreigner refuses prior to leaving to be tested for covid-19 and thus extends his/her own stay to the trouble of Denmark. Because it is true that the Danish authorities must be required to do so, which also comes from some airlines and other transport operators. It is therefore not possible at this stage, under current law, to impose on a foreigner who has to leave, for example, to be examined. Covid-19. In practice, this means that a foreigner is able to make it impossible to leave Denmark, regardless of the fact that it could be carried out as a compulsory expulsion. Then there is the fact that there is a risk that, under the Dublin Regulation, Denmark will be able to take over responsibility for examining an application for asylum from a foreigner where another Member State has otherwise agreed to take over the asylum seeker if it is not possible to transfer the asylum seeker concerned to a responsible country under the Dublin Regulation within the time limits laid down in the regulation. It is not a responsibility that we in Denmark must take on, just because a foreigner refuses to be tested. We in the Left find it quite unacceptable that a foreigner can prevent the country from being sent out by opposing an investigation for example. Covid-19. These foreigners do not have the right to reside in the country and must therefore leave the country as soon as possible, which is why we in the Left will, of course, be voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142758	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142821	The background to the draft law is the desire to remove one of the obstacles that may exist when the authorities have to repatriate a foreigner who is not entitled to reside in Denmark. There are a number of rejected asylum seekers and criminal foreigners and people on tolerated residence, all of whom are undesirable in Denmark, but where the problem is that it is difficult to return them. This is most often because they refuse to participate voluntarily and the country of origin will only receive them if they participate voluntarily. This is therefore quite a task on which the Danish authorities are required to convince the authorities of other countries that they should receive one of their own nationals. When there is finally a gap, it should not be an obstacle that the undesirable person in Denmark has not been tested for covid-19. That would prevent forced repatriation. Therefore, it is clear that the person must be tested for covid-19, and if he refuses to participate, yes, then he must be approached with compulsion. That is what the bill is all about, as I understand it. Of course there must be a legal basis for this; we know from the mink case that it is important to have a legal basis in place. And if there are other things that the Minister thinks stand in the way of the unwanted foreigners being expelled from Denmark, then he must finally say so. We simply need to take care of that. The Danish People's Party will support any action that can facilitate the work of getting foreigners who are not wanted in Denmark out of Denmark, and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221142957	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Nor is there any brief comment on the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143052	Thank you for the floor. When foreigners cannot obtain legal residence, or when the basis for the stay they have falls away, they are, of course, in danger of being sent out of Denmark. This is because of the rules that come from it. Often you are sent on a plane, and at the moment you can only come if you have been tested for covid-19. According to the government, this leads to more people not being returned because they refuse to be tested. Of course, you have to be repatriated if the conditions for it are generally met. And there we have to know the scale of the problem, basically, before we take any further action on it. Secondly, we think that at least a review clause should be included in the draft law. This is also the case in all other Corona legislation that we are currently adopting, so we think that is at least the minimum here too. Then it is mentioned in the bill • what is very sensible • that vulnerable people can be exempted because it poses a risk of trauma. However, there are no such more clear criteria as to how they are exempted and what emphasis should be placed, just as there are no real health workers in the Home Travel Board to assess it. And that makes us a little sceptical about how it will work in practice. These are three prerequisites for the Radical Left to be able to vote in favour of this bill, which is why we will use the committee procedure constructively and see if we can resolve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143258	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143337	Thank you for the floor. It is thus that we in the Socialist People's Party agreed that this is a health policy, which is why it was actually Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who should have been here. But she has been prevented because of an important meeting, which is why I will read her speech. In the SF we have no doubt that rejected asylum seekers or others who are in a sending position and who can at the same time return safely to where they come from must be deported and, if necessary, accompanied to their destination. This can, of course, present some challenges at a time of covid-19 and massive infection all over the world, both because there are fewer flights and travel opportunities, and because airlines and countries often require clean certificates of infection before they will receive passengers and allow entry. This has led the government to propose the possibility of coercion in relation to the rejected asylum seekers who allegedly will not be tested. But is that wise? Firstly, the extent to which we face a problem can be called into question. Danish Refugee Aid says in contrast to the government that they have not been in contact with or heard about rejected asylum seekers or others in a sending position which has opposed investigation for covid-19. In addition, we are in the middle of a time when it is now difficult both to fly out of the country and to get an entry into a number of countries where asylum seekers come from. But perhaps the situation is quite different when the vaccine is spread in perhaps six months and the borders are more open again. Secondly, and this is perhaps even more important, we in the SF believe that the possibility of compulsory examinations is a breach of a very important principle of Danish health and social policy, which, as a starting point, only resorts to coercive measures against citizens when it comes to the fact that the sick person or the infected person is a direct danger to himself or his environment. In conclusion, there are also a number of outstanding issues which I hope we will be able to clarify in committee: firstly, the comments made by the Østre Landsret that justice is not included in the draft law, and secondly, the remarks by the Red Cross that individual asylum seekers are in a particularly vulnerable situation and should therefore be exempted from testing, which, for example, is the case. may apply to mentally ill, severely traumatized, unaccompanied minors and pregnant women. The SF cannot directly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143549	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143624	Thank you. This bill is another example of trying to turn something into a foreign policy which is not so, in order to be as strict on foreign policy as possible. This is health policy. Forcibly sending a person with the use of retention and introduction of foreign bodies into body openings is a serious and insulting act against another human being. It is not something that can be legitimised simply because a public administration has a strict timetable or we have some target figures. If we are to be able to legitimise such an infringement, there must be very serious reasons for doing so. If you're gonna ask the doctors and nurses who stand on the front every day fighting Corona to take part in this type of procedure with other people, then you really need a good reason. Serious security and health threats to society may and in very few cases may justify coercive action of this nature. This bill seeks to introduce the possibility of coercion in a situation where there is nothing at stake for the Danish state. There is no serious threat to the health and safety of society if a covid-19 study is not carried out, even if it must result in a single expulsion being delayed. The expulsion sentenced in Denmark, which has served their sentence, does not pose a serious threat to Denmark. Expulsion-judged foreigners, who fear for their lives by forced expulsion, do not pose a serious threat to Denmark. Hence, expelled aliens should not be subjected to force and to the introduction of foreign bodies into their bodies. The proportionality between what you want to achieve with this bill and the way you want to do it is simply biased. I look forward to the Minister coming up here on the platform and explaining how this is going to be done in practice, because frankly, we find this a little difficult to see in the Enhedslisten. Are you really going to ask the public employees of Denmark to force tests on people in this way? I think it's quite wrong. I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Hegaard in that this bill must contain at least a sunset clause like any other legislation we have made in relation to corona. That would be only fair, even if Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. I would also like to say that, of course, we need to test people that we have a clear test strategy in this situation. But what we can do is isolate people. I simply do not see the need to create a law which will force people in this way if they do not pose a danger. This is about an expulsion being delayed. That's all it's about. Enhedslisten can't support this bill at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143923	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221143947	Thank you, President. We Conservatives think this is a really, really good proposal and a brilliant example that we are not pale to praise the government and the minister when you come with sensible policy, regardless of whether you see it as health policy or immigration policy. I think it is a good mix of both. At any rate, I just contacted our health rapporteur to reverse it and, of course, I also received full support there. Then I think it is a little strange that the Radical Left and the Enhedslist say that you cannot support it because, among other things, you cannot support it. do not know how many people are involved. In other words, if a foreigner who is not legally resident in Denmark refuses to be expelled, it does not matter whether it is one or many. In fact, I would say that the more this is about, the more important this bill is. But I'm glad it seems like there's a wide range of parties backing this up. In any case, we think it is a very sensible legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144048	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144107	Thank you. Foreigners expelled from Denmark must of course travel out. They should not be able to oppose it, even on the grounds that they will not be examined for a disease covered by the law on measures against infectious diseases and other communicable diseases. It's obvious. We have adopted legislation and we have a government to implement that legislation. We have some foreigners who have to go out, and if they oppose it, then the Folketing must support the government's ability to make sure that they go out. New citizens naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144149	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Since I do not see the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144204	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the debate and for the receipt of this bill. I am pleased to note that there is support in the Folketing for implementing this legislation. The bill we are discussing today contains a change in the law on foreigners. In Denmark, we do what we can to put an end to the corona epidemic, and of course other countries do too. Therefore, several countries require that Danish authorities can show a negative test for corona when they have to accept an alien who is leaving or leaving Denmark. There are also a number of airlines who do the same when the alien has to be transported out of the country. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples of some foreigners refusing to be tested for corona, and in this way the alien can make a broadcast from Denmark impossible. The government simply does not consider this to be sustainable. Unfortunately, I do not think we should count on it being within a clear horizon that the demands for negative coronate are being removed from airlines or countries. We are talking here about foreigners who have no right to be in this country. It can, for example, be done. have been rejected asylum seekers; it may also be people who have been convicted of a criminal offence and have been expelled from Denmark. They are therefore persons who have been definitively refused a residence permit and who are therefore not entitled to stay in Denmark. It's a pretty crucial priority for the government for these people to leave. If this does not happen voluntarily, they must be sent out. Everything else will not be worthy of the rule of law. The aim of the draft law is therefore to enable the authorities to require a foreigner to leave the country to be tested, for example. covid-19 if necessary for the alien to leave or leave. If they refuse to follow the injunction for investigation, it will be possible, on the basis of the police's assistance, to present the alien to a health care professional for examination. The bill also provides a clear legal basis for the processing of personal data required for the purposes of the scheme. This is crucial when issuing the relevant health professional documentation and when that information is to be passed on to other countries or private actors in connection with the exit. I would like to thank you for today's debate on the legislative proposal and, of course, we are fully available for the questions we can already hear are on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144433	Thank you to the Minister and there are already questions to the Minister here at first reading in this Chamber. First of all, I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144443	Thank you. We have, of course, just last week reached a broad agreement on a new epidemic law, in which there was broad agreement that, in the context of the coercive measures resulting from the epidemic law, there must be automatic judicial review. Can the Minister then explain why it is not felt that there should be judicial review in this case of forced testing, which is also a fairly intrusive measure in the life of the individual? And can the Minister explain which health professional competences are present on the Home Travel Board, which will of course assess who is vulnerable in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144529	I want to start by saying that for me, this is just alien politics. This isn't about dealing with the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark. In this sense, there is no health policy in this, from my point of view at least. This is all about the fact that people who are sentenced to expulsion or have been refused asylum should be on the plane home and that it should not be possible to sit back on the couch and say: I will not be tested. Then it is true that we have some rules that if you are detained there is a possibility of judicial review, but the assessment of this bill has not been that you can regard it as a deprivation of liberty, for example. With the assistance of the police, a test is carried out for the covid-19, because it is not of an extent where detention is involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144614	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144617	If this has nothing to do with the corona situation or the covid-19, then I just don't understand why this is shown in the introduction to page 2 of the notes on the law, where you mention corona and covid-19 as an example. So that is the background to the situation we are in at the moment. Therefore, I just cannot understand why in this draft law there are no review clauses and the possibility of judicial review, as is known from other coercive measures in this situation. I think we should get an answer to that. And what kind of health skills are there in the Home Travel Authority to make these very important assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144654	This, of course, has something to do with the corona situation. I don't think we would have had this bill today if there hadn't been a global epidemic, pandemic, or whatever it is called. So in that sense, it has something to do with the corona situation. I'm just saying that this bill isn't about dealing with the situation with covid-19 in Denmark. In that sense, it has nothing to do with health policy. For me, it has something to do with return policy. And when it is the Home Travel Authority which is responsible for imposing a test on foreigners, it is because it is they who have the authority to get people on the plane and out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144730	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144733	Thank you. Like Mr. Kristian Hegaard, in the Enhedslisten, we find it difficult to see what this has to do with foreign policy. Now the minister has made us a little bit smarter. I would like to hear the Minister explain how this is going to be done in practice. So, is it the good people from the Home Travel Board who have to belt fix and then force this test through, or is it some health care worker, or is it another department of the police who has to do it? I mean, how is this gonna happen in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144807	It's gonna be the Home Travel Authority calling the police and asking for assistance to get a covid-19 test. I think that the mere fact that this law will hopefully be passed will have a preventive effect, because hopefully there will be fewer who refuse to be tested and more who say: okay, if the alternative is that the police get involved, then I will probably do so voluntarily anyway. Perhaps there will also be people who, when they are in a room and can see that there are uniformed police who can use force, still say: Okay, so fuck it, then I'll be tested for covid-19. If there isn't, of course it has to be done within the law of the police. This also means that it must be least intrusive and that there should be no unnecessary intervention of power, but it is the general rules that apply to everything the police are doing. That will also apply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144857	I wonder if the Minister himself noticed an expression that is absolutely not used from the speaking chair of the Folketing. At any rate, I can tell the Minister that both members and also good staff in the Ministry responded to the statement that I can tell the Minister about on occasion. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund on another point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144917	Thank you. So it's the police who have to handle this. Does the Minister really think that it is reasonable to ask our police, who already have so much work to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221144952	I shall start by apologizing to the President, although I am not quite sure what I apologise for. First Vice-President I think that is a good idea). Secondly, yes, I think it is quite reasonable to ask the police to do this task. The police are already helping the Home Travel Authority with a lot of work in the home travel area, because there are people who can only be sent out if it happens with the use of coercion. The National Travel Agency can't do that. The National Travel Agency is not allowed to use coercion in this way. That's why we depend on the police to help, and now they're gonna get this job too. But I don't think it's gonna be that many for whom it's gonna be relevant. Because I think that the mere fact that we adopt the legislation will help us a little. Unfortunately, there have been some examples, also recently, where we have not been able to get people on the aircraft because we have not been able to show a negative covid-19 test.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145040	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145046	Thank you. Well, I've just gotten totally crazy about the care of the police from Enhedslisten's side. It's new tones, but it's fine when it comes to the appropriate places. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that this measure is simply an action that is coming now because we have the conditions that we have and because it is necessary as a means of forcing foreigners who are not wanted in Denmark. In fact, the police have been aware that I do not know if Enhedslisten and the Radical Left are aware of some pretty tough conditions in relation to forcing foreigners. I have heard of a number of things, and I think it is quite appropriate that, if you oppose a forced broadcast, tough means should be put in place, and the police are really well suited to this, also in relation to this. But it is not the case that you ask the person to go home in any context, yes, you do, but when they say no, there is a forced broadcast. And it may be a bit harsh, but it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145147	I am also pleased that the Enhedslisten is part of the new police settlement, and I am particularly pleased that the presence of the police in society in this way is somewhat dedramatised. It should not be a fight between the right and the left. We can fight over the content of the law, but once it is passed, it goes without saying that we will have to have a police force or we will not be able to enforce the law. So I think that is really positive. Then it is true that the covid-19 situation is the reason we are putting forward this bill. If I'm just going to make it a little personal, I'll say that I myself get a little provoked when I'm in dialogue with the Home Travel Authority and they tell me that now we've managed to get a chartered flight to that country, or now we've managed to get somebody convinced there. But even if there are seats left on the plane, and even though we have foreigners in the exit position, which costs us DKK 1,000. during the day, people actually do, if they're at our exit centers, we can't get them going because they don't want the wimp down their throats that hundreds of thousands of Danes have got down their throats and got down their throats for the sake of society. But they refuse to do so; it is extremely provocative. That is also part of history, I must remember to say that most people who are told that they have to leave do so completely voluntarily and without drama. And we're never gonna hear about that. However, I believe that they do this because we have a fairly robust return policy so that they know that if they do not go home voluntarily, there is an exit centre and a residence obligation and reporting obligations and one thing and the other. I just regard this bill as a natural extension of the return policy we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145309	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145334	The debate is open. The first is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145349	With this bill, we are strengthening our efforts to combat negative social control. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that we must do everything we can to guarantee the fundamental rights of Danish citizens. Immigration from the Middle East has meant that customs and traditions have been imported into Denmark, which collide with basic Danish values. For example, in relation to the sight of girls, women, homosexuals and people who are otherwise deprived of basic rights such as the right to self-determination over their own bodies and lives in a broad sense. With this bill, we propose, among other things, that negative social control be included in the penal code on psychological violence. In addition, we are tightening our grip on imams that contribute to negative social control, for example by drawing up religious divorce contracts. We also propose banning religious marriages of minors and tightening the penalty for maintaining a person in forced marriage by religious marriage. Secondly, we will make it possible to refuse to issue or withdraw a child's passport or travel document in cases where there are grounds for believing that the child will be sent abroad to be married religiously. Foreigners and religious ministers who contribute to negative social control or religious marriages of minors must be able to be more deported, and if a person or his partner is convicted of having been responsible for a religious marriage of a minor, this must have consequences for his or her ability to have a child in this country. In other words, we are massively committed to negative social control, religious marriages of minors and forced marriages. It is medieval phenomena that have at some point come here from the Middle East but do not belong in Denmark. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145524	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145546	Thank you for the floor. The government has put forward this bill on negative social control and it contains a number of measures, including: concerns how to make an explicit reference in the Penal Code on the Prohibition of Religious Marriages, the possibility of withdrawing or refusing to issue passports to minors if there are grounds for believing that the child is marrying abroad, and the strengthening of language requirements for religious ministers seeking to extend their residence permit. And these are all measures in which we can so much see ourselves. There should be no doubt that social control is one of the most important equal opportunities struggles at all, and the longer I have dealt with this area, the more I have been convinced that the day we speed up our integration coincides with the day when the issue of equality is raised in the environments which are mainly concerned here. We in the Left will not accept that there are environments in Denmark where equality has been completely put out of hand ■ where men think they are worth more than women; where husbands, fathers and brothers bully women and girls, and where women are being deprived of their freedom. In Denmark, we have equality and, of course, we need equal opportunities. There are some concrete proposals that we would like to see incorporated into the legislative proposal, so that we can actually tighten it up even more, and so I would like to say from up here on behalf of Mrs Fatma Øktem, who is the real rapporteur in this area, that we can immediately support large parts of the legislative proposal and look forward to the committee reading so that we can have it, so that it has the best possible effect and so that we can get rid of this evil.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145743	Thank you. I read an interview with the rapporteur in Information on 8 December and, for a rare time, I was very much in agreement with that, Mr President. Mads Birde said, for Mr. Mads Birded said that the whip cannot stand alone. So I actually just want to hear Mr. Mads Fuglede, what other proposals the Left has on how to eliminate negative social control, in other words beyond the penal code we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145819	Now, the interview was especially about girls being sent on a reeducational trip, and some of the things that I have been revealed I have among other things. had some conversations with the girl whose story is in the book that has come out, and I should have had a meeting today with someone else, but has had it pushed to later is that some of what is very necessary is to have an opportunity to approach someone who understands the girls' case from within in a better way, so that you don't think that by punishing the parents you can free the girls. That's the lead I think there's something in it. And I think that if we're going to get rid of these reeducational journeys, we can't just punish the parents if it has the side effect that the girls are then just being banished to Pakistan, for example, as the book I speak from describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145937	Mrs Rosa Lund for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221145940	Thank you. Again, I very much agree that it is a question of someone having to be in that environment too, if you can put it that way, from which the parents who expose their young, both boys and girls, to negative social control come. And a proposal from the Enhedslisten to what I really just want to hear about the Left backs up is that you get something more and something better education in rights and gender equality when you come to Denmark and, for example, in Denmark. have fled countries such as Pakistan and Iran or elsewhere where there is not the same gender equality as there is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150020	That all sounds very, very reasonable. I am sure we will take a very positive view of such a proposal. In addition, I also believe that, in relation to the way in which the system has been built now, when you look at a lot, what parents might do, that there is a need in some way to create an agency that knows what it is that girls are exposed to and what they really need directly. So there's something there that we can do much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150102	The background to this proposal is sad, in other words, that the migration of hundreds of thousands of people from the Middle East, in particular, is filled with almost an infinite number of problems. They call it negative social control. Somewhere I may think that social control sounds a little cozy, but it is not at all. Well, we call it Islamic control, and it sounds much, much worse, and that is what it really is. Much of what is written at the beginning of the written presentation is something that could well have been written in my party in an analysis of the problems. Let me just quote this sentence: 'Despite decades of effort, there are still problems of integration in Denmark in terms of lack of employment, crime, ghetto formation, negative social control and the emergence of parallel societies, trying to maintain norms and values which are very, very far away from what must mark a free and democratic society like the Danish one. It is gratifying that, after decades of neglecting the problems, the Social Democratic Party has finally awakened and seen the scale of the problem and very, very seriously. The bill contains a wide range of measures to counter negative social control such as retention in religious marriages: prohibition of religious marriages of minors, inclusion of passports in minors if there is a risk of forced marriage abroad, increased penalties for illegal coercion, easier expulsion of religious preachers and tightening up tests in Danish and other matters. It looks very good on paper, but will it really work? I can doubt a little, but I don't want anything untested in these cases. Many of the proposals can only be put into practice and become reality if the authorities out there are awake locally, throwing off the touch and reporting back every time they see a sign of negative social control. There is no doubt that many, in many places, are well aware that this is quite wrong. In the ghettos there are several parallel societies where you live completely your own life without much contact with Danish authorities and Danish society. One thing is to get something adopted in the Folketing, another is to make it work in society. There are many interests and there are many people who think that we should not talk about these things and not do anything. I hope that those times will soon be over, but it is probably here where the government and the minister come most to work if it is to have any chance of working. I welcome a small sentence in the written submission, and that is the sentence that there must be expulsion unless the expulsion with certainty The case is, and it must be said here that the two small words with security were introduced by the former VK government in 2011 with the support of the Danish People's Party. Then the SRSF government with Helle Thorning-Schmidt came and removed the two important words in 2012. The former Minister for Integration Inger Løjberg then received with the support of among others. The Danish People's Party again introduced the two small words in 2016. And now we're writing 2020, and it's a good thing that the government is again actually highlighting the two small important words in the written submission. The Danish People's Party supports the bill. We can have some doubts about the effects, but we have to follow that. But nothing, nothing, nothing should be unproven in this case. It is just so creepy that in a free country like Denmark, where we have equal rights and where we value the sexes in different ways, it is going on as it does in the Middle Eastern countries. It doesn't belong anywhere. I would ask the Minister once a year to send a statement to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration with a status on this negative control of Islamic control as it is. How's it look? Are the measures that we are now setting in motion helping, or what? And do you need more? I hope that the Minister will keep Parliament informed of the progress of the work on combating this terrible control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150521	Thank you. We thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and then it is Mr. Kjærsgaard. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150549	Thank you for the floor, President. For the Radical Left, greater focus on negative social control is important. It must be combated. The Radical Left is therefore pleased that the Finance Act provides for a framework of 10 million. kr. annual for the period 2021-2024 for interventions in the field. The funds can be used, for example, for: Increased detection, better and more training of the professional groups that meet young people exposed to negative social control, and, for example, integration from crisis centres. In recent times, there has been, among other things, an increase in the number of young people in the Community. was the focus and attention on divorce contracts, where a divorce evidently can only take place in certain situations. Of course, it does not go into a free and equal democratic society. The only thing that regulates the possibilities for divorce is what the Danish law says, or other Danish obligations, and it is of course obvious here that women as well as men are free to divorce. You must fall in love with whoever you want, and you must divorce when you want. That's the way it is. No one else should decide that in a free society. Nor should one pay an extra tax of self-invented origin, nor should one be obliged to give up one's children or anything else, as a result of the fact that, for example, one's children are being deprived of their rights. In the future, there will be a disability or whatever has been in these absurd divorce contracts. It doesn't work out, and we think it's a good thing that this bill focuses on. That is why we welcome several of the points, among others. the clarification of the wording of the penal code's provision on psychological violence. We also welcome the extension of the scope of the criminal law's provision on illegal coercion and the guarantee of a better legal status for victims of violence who are family-run refugees. What we also want to point out is that we cannot legislate out of social control, and that is why we also need more initiatives such as those agreed in the Finance Act. On the other hand, in the legislative process we will also be asking a little bit about the fact that parents, among others, are. If their child is married, it can be punished because the parents or one of them can in fact also have been subjected to negative social control. In addition, we are also rather sceptical about the rules on expulsion and family reunification that have been involved in this. We would like that to be the case, and we hope that a solution can be found separately in the forthcoming legislative process, to which we in the Radical Left wish to contribute constructively, because a fight with negative social control is essential in a democratic society such as Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150901	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221150934	Today's a big day. More specifically, it is a great day for all those women who, although living and living in Denmark, which is the epitome of a democracy, are being offered conditions that suppress and break them down. So far, they have received a step-motherly treatment in the public debate. These are all the New Danish women who are under the patriarchal domination of parallel societies and whose only consolation is their reward in the beyond. It is women who are subjected to sermons about how a woman should honor her husband and be a good Muslim. This often translates into harsh and threatening words in cases where women do not comply, and the words are threatening in the sense that the fire of hell is often promised. This is among other things. something with some big pots that they can be boiled in as punishment. Young girls also participate in these sermons so that they can learn about their prescribed role. Those of us who have pointed out these problems have been faced with threats, have been rude or have got our families into it as an attempt to exercise social control over us. This has all happened with the sole purpose of shutting us up. It says a little about how controversial a step is, but also how important a step we must take today. The women mentioned above, their daughters and daughters' daughters, we must take care of. They have inculcated a warped view of their role in relation to the man, who says that the man must both love and beat them, and that it is the woman's own responsibility to avoid as far as possible being subjected to violence by the man. It is quite clear that many of these women live a horrible life, and the only comfort they have to resort to is to become more religious and hope for a reward after death. With this bill we must give them the belief in a life before I don't know if any of the members have read the book "The Re-education" published by Information Publishers. It is about how to take the safe life of a young girl, Samira, who was born and raised in Denmark, when she is being re-educated in a country unknown to her, Pakistan. This is where she's gonna be the maid for the family. She washes clothes in her hand and cooks over a fire, and if she doesn't agree, her daily life is filled with daily humiliations, insults, and violence. Her only error is that she wanted to live the same life as her contemporaries Danish friends. It is only after 7 years that she can return to Denmark, pregnant and compulsive. In Denmark, her residence permit has since expired, and that is why she has simply to apply for asylum in this country. With the edge of her fingernails, she is thus given the opportunity to stay in the country. We must look after these young girls, and we do so, among other things. This bill will also make it possible to include the young person's passport if there is a suspicion that the young person is being sent to his country of origin to be forced or sent on a re-educational journey. In fact, the last thing I would like to hear about reeducation was a little more clarified in the draft law, so that it is not just about religious marriages. We must also look at how we can protect young people's residence permits so that they do not run the risk of becoming refugees in their own country. The adoption of this bill alone is an important signal that the struggle of Samira and thousands of other women has not been in vain even though we cannot give them back their lost years of youth. And then the proposal is also a tool for helping other girls and young women in the future. I would add that I also think that the proposal to make it a criminal offence for girls under the age of 18 is important. This is an important signal to the imams who are in charge of these marriages, and it is a strong signal to the parents. Young girls must live like all other girls in Denmark and with the same rights. All in all, some very good proposals are in the draft law. For the SF, the fight against social control has been crucial and we note that with this proposal the Minister is taking an important step towards preventing and preventing social control. With this bill we send a strong signal that in Denmark we have equality between the sexes and perhaps more important that it is a human right to decide about your own life. With these words, I would like to inform you that the SF supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221151435	Thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz. Halime Oguz Wasn't there any questions?). No. Halime Oguz I am very, very sad about that). Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221151500	Thank you. It was a great day when last year we were given a law that criminalised psychological violence. This is an area which for too many years has had no focus whatsoever. Psychic violence is often linked to negative social control, and negative social control is not just something that exists in minority environments. This is something that can hit anywhere in society, and it is therefore a very important problem that we started to address last year. When we made the law on psychological violence in January 2019, it was written into the comments that mental violence can also be exercised by more people and that it can also be exercised by people outside the household. That's one of the things we're moving into the law now. That's really positive. In the Enhedslisten, we do not want anyone to be subjected to negative social control. We are opposed to coercion and we are sure that, with a great deal of preventive action, we can work towards the negative social control which, unfortunately, for too many years young people are being subjected to. In the Enhedslisten, we can support the clarification of the penal code so that there is no longer any doubt that negative social control is equivalent to other forms of psychological violence. Although this is probably already covered by the provision, we think it is right that we should now put a big, bold line under it. To criminalise the practice and involvement of non-citizenly recognised marriages of minors, we can also support the Enhedslisten, although it is important that we do not end up punishing mothers or husbands who are themselves under negative social control, if they are now, for example. don't dare report the ceremony to the authorities. Instead, we must ensure that they have a place to go and get help if both they and their children are subjected to negative social control or coercion. Generally speaking, it applies to all those who are subjected to negative social controls that we must ensure that there are support networks for all of them. That is why I am very pleased that in the Finance Act we managed to make a small step along the way in ensuring that there are places to go. In addition to the fact that we set aside money, which will only be put into effect in the new year, we also managed to have a crisis centre for the protection of dual minorities, because unfortunately we know that young people who have both very strong religious parents, but who are also homosexual, bisexual, transsexual, are very much subjected to negative social control. We've set up a shelter for them. I am extremely pleased and very, very proud of that. I also fully agree when Mr. Mads Birded in Dagbladet Information Tuesday 8 December says that the whip cannot stand alone. I quote: 'And that is why getting into a good dialogue with ethnic women and getting them working and making them aware of their rights is something that I expect a great deal of myself. I fully agree with Mr Seligman's point of view. Mads Birded in. The punishment cannot stand alone. There must also be an outreach and preventive action. And that is why I have to stress again the good financial law agreement that we are going to adopt tomorrow, which will, of course, put money off to town mothers, who have some of those who seek out those women who need someone to talk to and perhaps need help to translate. After all, this bill also imposes increased language and integration requirements on priests and imams from other countries, and here we think that the increased demands go beyond the goal. If a person is only to be here for a few years, it does not make sense to make the same demands on the person that is being made to people who apply for permanent residence after 10 years. In addition, we in the Enhedslisten do not believe that there is a need to make changes to the expulsion provisions, which are also envisaged in this bill, and I therefore ask the Minister to split the bill so that we in the Enhedslisten can vote in favour of the part that we support and against the part that we do not support. Having said that, I am also very pleased that a number of speakers have mentioned the book published by journalists on Information after having spoken to a young woman, with whom the former Foreign Affairs and Integration Rapporteur of Enhedslisten, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, brought information publishing houses into contact. How nice it is that something that Enhedslisten started so many years ago now seems to meet a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. This makes me happy and I hope that at some point we will have to look at the rules on residence permits so that women no longer depend on being in Denmark on their husband's residence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221151958	Thanks to Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221152021	Thank you, sir. President. We think this is a really, really nice bill. The fight against negative social control is something we in Conservatives really care about very much. It is not long since we had the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, the Minister for Justice and Foreign Affairs in joint consultation on the basis of a case by one of our Conservative city council candidates, Roya Moore, who has an Iranian background and who experienced a phone call from the Iranian embassy, who said that in order for her divorce to be recognised in Iran, she should also go past the Imam Ali Mosque and have it approved there, and that is absolutely insane. I think that matter, as our consultation did, also reflects how wide this embraces. It is a huge challenge you see in the mosques, and you see it in schools with young Muslim girls under pressure of social control, and you see it in the homes. So this is very, very extensive, and that is why we also felt it was necessary to convene three ministers, but we could also have extended the church minister to four different ministers. I am very pleased with the work which, among other things, is being done. SF with the rapporteur Mrs Halime Oguz herself is fighting for. In fact, I think it is very, very good to hear what the rapporteur says. It's kind of in contrast to the Radical Left. It is not long since we had a debate on the challenges of increasing Islamisation in Denmark, where the Radical Left then went to the platform and said that it was a strange debate because there were no challenges. I think there are a lot of Muslim women around Denmark who will disagree quite with Radical Left in that. So in those words, thank you to the Minister for a good bill. So I agree with the Left that we can look at whether to table amendments that make this even more productive. We are clearly open to this, but we can at least say with peace of mind that we support the bill as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221152231	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. Would you mind sprinkling? Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221152253	Thank you for the floor, President. The proposal that we are discussing today is another legislative proposal that deals with the Islamisation of our society. Decades of failed immigration policy and migration from Muslim countries have caused great damage to our society. One of several is the negative social control that comes with Islam and Islamic culture. In new citizens, we say clearly and clearly that immigration policy must be resolved from the bottom up. We need a stop to asylum in Denmark. We must demand foreigners to support themselves, and then criminal foreigners must be deported consistently after the first sentence. This is and will ultimately be the best and most effective way of dealing with the major challenges we face, including the social control that we see in Islam. We call it negative social control, others call it Islamic control... undefeated child has many names. We regret that, despite a gradually broader understanding of the problems we are facing, there is not also a broad desire to solve these problems from the bottom up. However, we recognise the small steps that are on the way... we take them with us in terms of pushing back Islam and the Islamisation of our society. After all, this concrete bill is about a series of measures which are essentially about Islam and which are essentially also about the Islamic marriage and the coercion that is in Islamic conditions; Muslim women, who are maintained by Islamic rules in a society in which Islamic rules do not apply. And I have to say and point out today, as I have said many times before the Minister and the rapporteurs are probably getting tired of me gradually, when I mention that when we have legislation in which we recognise Islamic religions and give them privileges, such as. When it comes to giving them the right to marry, we must also expect that the Islamic marriage, nikkah, is part of the price we pay. So when we recognise with one hand the communities of faith and give them the privilege that they are allowed to marry Islamic husbands, and then at the same time say that we will not actually accept the conditions of the Islamic marriage, then there is something that stands in different directions and that I think we should look at. I also understand that this is the church minister's resort area, and we're gonna take that one too. I just have to point out that here again we have a proposal that we could probably have solved even more effectively if we looked at what kind of marriage we allow the Imams to push down the heads of people living in Denmark and where Danish rules should apply. Having said that, however, we naturally support the draft law. We think that there is a great deal of good in it, and I understand that the left side too, and those who also fight for the rights of Muslim women in Denmark and have recognised that the Islamisation that is happening in our society also goes beyond a minority in our society that has not asked for it, are happy about this. I am actually pleased, on behalf of Denmark, that we have reached this stage, after all. After all, it is not the Danish women who have grown up with the strength they have as Danish who are very much affected by this. There are, of course, Danish women who are subjected to negative social control, and it is not to neglect it, but when we talk about it today, and when you see the comments on the bill, it is quite clear that this is about Islamisation, so it is not said that it is all Muslims. But it's about Islamization. It is about the people who believe that Islamic rules should take precedence over secular rules in Denmark, and we must push that back with all possible means, not least for the sake of those women who grow up with social control and who have no option but our assistance. So, in those words, thank you for the bill. We're backing up. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221152712	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and since I do not see other rapporteurs, it is now the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221152734	Thank you, and I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the debate on the legislative proposal and for the very broad support I can hear there being. It is hardly surprising that we in the government will go a long way to combat social control, and it is also a debate that has filled a lot in the course of the autumn. I really think that the SF's rapporteur, Halime Oguz, sums it up very well here from the platform when she says that it is about these women being entitled to a life before death, and I have also told you on several occasions about the various initiatives we are ready to take from the government in the fight against social control, and that is a number of the legislative proposals that we are now discussing, and that is something I have been looking forward to. There are women and men, but most women in Denmark who live in marriages and marriage-like relationships, which are in fact prisons, and if they want to free themselves, they risk being exposed to threats and intimidation, and it is quite obvious that it must be stopped. Of course, we should not in any way allow a set of rules based on old-fashioned thinking to be over Danish rules or our values. The government will therefore do much more to stem all corners of social control, because we should not accept parallel societies with parallel legislation in which children are brought up and women are oppressed and forced into a marriage or they cannot be divorced. This applies regardless of whether the marriage is legally valid or not. We all know the boring stories that have been in the press and that have been among other things. has reported religious divorce contracts where the woman was required to sign that she would lose the right to her children, among others. if she remarried or moved more than 130 km away. I believe that the Berlingske story in particular made a great impression on many of us. The Government's bill strengthens efforts to combat negative social control in several areas. We propose amendments to both the penal code, the passport law and the alien law, and I will briefly review the main parts. Firstly, we propose to clarify the provisions of the penal code on psychological violence so that it is signalled that social control is the core area of the provision. We also propose banning religious marriages of minors in Denmark, so that religious preachers or other persons in charge of religious marriages of minors can be punished. The same must apply to parents who allow their children to enter into a religious marriage without civil validity, and to persons who, as an adult, voluntarily enter into a religious marriage with a person under the age of 18. In addition, the government proposes to tighten up the penal framework in cases where a person is retained under compulsion in a marriage, in a relationship concluded by a religious marriage without civil validity or in another marriage-like relationship, i.e. again regardless of whether the marriage is legally valid or not and we propose that it should be punishable to expressly approve mental violence and religious marriages of minors as part of religious training. We also propose amendments to the passport code. The authorities must be able to withdraw a child's passport or refuse to issue a passport if there is reason to believe that the child will be sent abroad to marry or to be religiously married there. In particular, in the Aliens Act, we propose tightening up the rules on expulsion so that they go hand in hand with the other parts of the bill. Among other things: We propose that foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty for having violated a ban on religious weddings of minors or for having maintained someone else in a marriage or in a relationship concluded by a religious wedding with coercion should be expelled regardless of the length of the sentence of liberty and the duration of the alien's stay in Denmark, unless expulsion would certainly be contrary to our international obligations. The clear starting point would therefore be expulsion. The government wants to send out a clear and very clear signal that we are looking very seriously at those who exercise social control, and I would like to emphasise that we have no expectation that this bill alone will solve all the challenges of social control, but these are important steps along the way, and that is why we are very open to discussing all the good ideas of experts abroad, the parties of the Folketing and all the other good forces. Unfortunately, I think we are at the beginning of a journey towards bringing Danish legislation into line with a situation in which, unfortunately, social control is present in the country and is far from being defeated. I look forward to further consideration and will, of course, endeavour to answer all questions, of course, both today and in Parliament's next reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153217	There is one brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153221	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. Now I know that the Minister has also read the same book that I have, namely the book on reeducation which appeared at the Information Publisher and where we were both interviewed, so I am a little surprised that the reeducation is not part of the bill, so why, if the authorities have any suspicion that this is about reeducation, it does not have it, so that the passport of the person concerned can be included. Because that was actually where it went wrong for the main character in the book, Sami, where she ended up in Pakistan and had to live as a maid for seven years. That is one question. The second question is also about • if you are to take the Sami report as a starting point, that she loses the residence permit and loses all her rights, and that is why she has to apply for asylum in the country in which she was born and raised. But how do we protect these young people's residence permits in these situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153334	I also read the book, a little before it appeared, and had the opportunity to take notes in the margin of the book on large and small, both about some legislation and how the legislation is administered, and it is, of course, a book that extends over many years. But some of what I noted was that if you are a foreigner, for example. as the main character here, is sent to the parents' homeland, in this case Pakistan, and stays away for a long time, then your residence permit lapses. But you have the opportunity to get it back if you can prove that you have been detained against your will. She evidently had difficulty in documenting this, and thus she could not get her residence permit back, and the grotesque thing is that she ends up going to Sandholm in the country in which she was born and raised, to seek asylum in the sounding Copenhagen language, and it is quite obvious that there is something we should have looked at there. It is quite recently that this issue has been brought to my attention, and that is why it is not part of this legislative proposal. In fact, I am not even sure that this will require a change of law, but we are looking at that, and I very much hope that on the other side of New Year we will be able to come back with a solution to the specific issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153443	Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153444	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Minister recognises that there is a gap in legislation in relation to this. It is true that one must be able to prove that one has been sent on a re-educational journey, and in this respect Samia has tried to do so with all the reports that have been both from the school and the municipality and the hospital, that is to say the psychiatric department, but it did nothing and she had to seek asylum. I think we need to look at how we can relax this legislation so that we help these young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153522	I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with the intention: it is these young people who have been sent on a re-educational journey or who are threatened with being sent on a re-educational journey that we must have in focus. I have wondered myself whether, for example, we can do something about it. could create a reverse burden of proof if a minor has been sent abroad. In this particular case she had been at, I think it was a crisis centre, and there were doctors who had informed of her situation, and then it is quite bizarre that she comes back many years later, pregnant, and has to prove that she has been detained against her will in a village where she did not have access to the Internet or mobile phone. It may be an unreasonable burden of proof to put on her, but I hope, as I said, that I will be able to return to that after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153605	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153606	Thank you. Now I am almost completely moved that the Minister is standing here referring to some cases which Enhedslisten has helped to bring out into the light and on which Information Publishing has published a whole book. That was amazing. I would like to ask the Minister if that means that we can expect a legislative proposal to come up on how to ensure that these young people can hold onto their residence permit. I hear the Minister's idea of a reversal of the burden of proof and feel that I have to think about it during my Christmas holiday, because it is a little dangerous, I would say, to embark on it. But you could also change the rules in a different way, so you made sure that these young people had their residence permit in their hands for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153652	As I have said, I have some doubts as to whether this would require a change of law at all, or whether it would be possible to change the administration of the Aliens Act simply in quotation marks. But that's what we're looking at. There are also several other issues when it comes to reeducational journeys, where I think we can do better. What this bill we are discussing today is about, and which is about re-educational trips, is the possibility that the authorities may withdraw a passport or refuse to issue a passport to young people if they are assumed to be sent on a re-education journey. I think that is a step in the right direction. It has already been implemented in Sweden, where the law came into force this summer, and it has already had effect over the summer, when unfortunately there is a season for reeducation trips. So I just hope that we can get this thing through, so that it may have entered into force by next summer, when we will hopefully be out of the corona epidemic again and the planes will be back on their wings, and if we can prevent some young people from being sent on reeducation trips, then we will have come a small step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153755	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153756	Thank you. We agree so far that it must be easier to include a passport in these situations. What I think this bill is missing, which in many ways has the title of stopping negative controls, and which is lacking in the long list of legislative proposals that can be seen on the screen behind the minister, is the question of how to ensure it for those women who are subjected to negative social control by their husbands but who do not divorce him because they then lose the basis of residence in Denmark. We need that corner too. So will the Minister ensure that women who are in Denmark on the basis of their husband's residence are given their own residence permit so that they do not have to fear being thrown out of the country because they are leaving a situation where they are subjected to negative social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153842	There's an opportunity in the law today. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If a woman gets beaten up and arrives at a shelter and her residence permit is linked to her husband's residence permit, then there is a possibility that it will not be withdrawn. It is not an automatic option, but that option was incorporated into the law of foreigners some time ago. Perhaps I remember myself that, as rapporteur, I have at least either been involved in introducing it or re-examining it, and I think that is an excellent paragraph. In fact, there is also a single adjustment of that rule in this little bill, but it is not an adjustment that matters very much, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153915	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221153932	The debate is open and I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday 22 December. Then we need a explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221154024	Thank you. The climate rapporteurs of all parties in the Danish Parliament have chosen to invite the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to a question debate in connection with the discussion on climate effects. This is the first time we have had to discuss a statement on climate effects and we look forward to the debate. I would like to thank the Minister for running today and we look forward to some good discussions on climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221154047	Then it is the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply for the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221154058	Thank you. I think it was Storm P. who said it's hard to predict, especially about the future. However, I will now make the attempt here at the beginning of my speech: we are going to the future, we are going to 2030, and we are going to the barbecue bar. Some of you may know it: It is the Flyer Grill that lies out in Kastrup. It is such a legendary place where you can stand and get a Cocio and a hotter with it all and see airplanes light and land. This may not be the kind of favourite employment for climate-conscious rapporteurs, you think, but trust me and come with you anyway. Imagine you're standing there in 2030 and just ordered a hot dog. There are quite a lot of people that day. In front of it is Greenpeace with banners and cheers. Why? Well, when you look forward on the horizon, you see an A350 • 200 t steel on wings • that comes flying in and has to land. What makes it historic and which is why there are many that day, and why Greenpeace and other green NGOs have emerged, is that it is the first jumbo jet ever to fly across the Atlantic from New York to Copenhagen on green fuel. And not only is it green: The fantastic story is that it is produced in Denmark. Is that science fiction? Is that completely unrealistic? No, it can be done. Power-to-x, this technology where you take electricity, power from wind turbines, and convert it into hydrogen or liquid fuel that you can put on an airplane, we already have. We know how to do it. The task is to get it up on a scale and get it produced in a quantity and at a price, so it pays off, and we are doing very well here in Denmark. You can also imagine that you are standing over at the port of Esbjerg, also in 2030, looking to the horizon. There's gonna be a big tanker. It is not a tanker that is filled with oil; on the contrary, it is a tanker that is filled with CO2 It must add to one of the platforms where you can pump CO2 It is the very same companies, perhaps even the very same people who physically previously made a living from picking oil out of the ground • CO2 Again: Is it science fiction? Is this a far-fetched vision? No, we just allocated 200 million. kr. to this in the context of the agreement we made to put an end to oil and gas in the North Sea. This will become a reality, and I do not think we should wait as far as 2030 until it happens, but it will be part of the development we have made, where we make a very important decision for the climate, which makes us a pioneer country in the world, but where we do it in a way, so that we have the social awareness, and so that we secure jobs and growth in those parts of the country that are affected. Well, you're going back to Frederiksberg or Fur or Skive, or where you're coming from, maybe even all the way to Langeland. So you sit down just like a million other Danes do every day in your electric car. It has been quite cheap, it runs 400 km on the gallon, and it doesn't take very long to charge it. When you get home, if you live in a city, you will experience that pollution has fallen, the air has become cleaner, fewer become sick. When you drive on the highway, you will see that the Danish landscape has changed, so there were many places where there were fields before, as far as the eye reached, now is nature, wild nature, farmland that has been taken out of service. Some of it is flooded, others are forest; many of the forests that used to be plantations have now become wild forests with better biodiversity, more birds, more insects. Nature has also moved into the cities. Climate adaptation projects, which you may remember that as far back as 2020 we adopted could now be made cheaper and easier, have led to more green areas, more green roofs, more green facades. It is good for biodiversity, it is good for health, it is good for quality of life. But it's not just that. We have also electrified our society. We drive electric cars, yes, and many parts of our society are now dependent on green electricity, probably some of which is produced on one of the two major energy islands we decided back in 2020. Bornholm is one, and the other is an artificial construction in the North Sea. These two islands produce total electricity for 5 million households. This is far more than we can use ourselves in Denmark, so what we do not use we export to other countries, thereby helping to make the whole of Europe greener. All of this isn't a wild vision, it's not just some ideas you could have, or an essay I've written about how the world could look if you really use your imagination. All of this is very realistic goals, which are probably being met, not least because of the decisions we have taken this year. So when we reach 2030; when we as the first country in the world have reduced our CO2 compared to 1990, we will not have become a country that has become poorer in the process. We are not a country that has lost jobs, but a country that has created jobs. We are not a country where inequality has increased. We are not a country in which the quality of life has deteriorated. We are a country that is a pioneering country because others want to follow our example. It is not only the new green industries and everything we have to export, because we are making green solutions that others also want to use. These are also the industries which today are a major part of the problem: how to produce cement, how to produce bricks, how to produce sugar in a sustainable way? I think we can do that too. The fact is that we have already made many of those decisions and in the years to come we will be making many more of them. Are we in the finish line? No, of course not at all, but we're really, really, really on the way. We have taken decisions now after a year and a half in government, which together in Denmark leads to CO2 tonnes. The manko we took over to reach 70 percent was 20 million. a. So we have already taken decisions that take us over a third of the way. If we look around the world, it has to be said, unfortunately, that this has not been a year of very ambitious climate action in many places. That may be understandable, because the corona has hit hard, and very many places there is no surplus, resources or opportunity to seriously engage in the climate struggle, because you are busy enough just to survive and deal with the corona crisis. As I said, this is understandable, but nevertheless sad, because the climate crisis is not going away just because we are in the middle of another crisis now. That is why it has been so important to us in Denmark that we have been delayed, even though it has become more difficult to keep our eyes on the ball, continue the momentum and make the decisions that are necessary. But here in Denmark, too, we have been affected. It was the boxer Mike Tyson who once said: Everybody has a plan until they get punched in the face. That is, everyone has a plan until you get a fist right in your face. I think that's how many of us have felt a few times not only when I've negotiated with Tommy Ahlers here during the year. We had just started negotiations on the climate plans in March when the pandemic hit us, and it is clear that things were postponed; it is clear that we had to reconsider what kind of measures we would use. This is not a time when you use primarily whip; it is probably more a time when you use carrot. It is a time when you have to be extra careful not to push companies out of Denmark, so that we lose jobs. And of course all of this meant we had to shake the bag and come up with new solutions. We did so, and we have actually caught up with a lot of what we were delayed with, not all of it, but a lot of it. Sometimes the waves go high, but remember what results we have actually produced. When we can stand here today not only me as a representative of the government but also you as rapporteurs it is because we have made many broad agreements that have actually ensured that we have made a significant step further in the green agenda, that is, what made us all rename the day on Friday 4 December for green Friday and the whole week for green week. There is an agreement on the North Sea which is historic. This is often said about agreements in this House, but this one I think we can all agree that really is historic. It is an agreement that makes us a pioneer country in the world because we are setting an end date for oil and gas production. We have made an agreement that ensures that we are now moving towards a uniform CO2 There are overall agreements that ensure that we in Denmark in the years to come are on the right track when it comes to ensuring that we reach our goals. However, the decisions I am talking about here are not just decisions that must lead us to the end in the long run. Fortunately, many of the things we have decided are also some that the Danes are going to feel now and here and already. Neighbors to solar and wind turbines on land now receive a cash check once a year. Municipalities that set up new renewable energy plants also receive money that they can use for the green transition where they live. The general housing sector is being renovated for billions of dollars. It's good for the climate, it's good for the indoor climate, and it's good for the heating bill. Tens of thousands of Danish homes are supported to replace their oil and gas pine. People can seek money to refurbished their homes. We're all going to sort our waste better now so that we can burn off less plastic and recycle more. We get more nature when farmland is taken out of operation and flooded and trees are planted. It becomes more attractive and affordable to replace your petrol and diesel car with an electric car. There's gonna be more barnstands. All these things are going on now. It is some that the Danes are going to notice now and in the months and years that are coming. But like I said, that's not all we got. There are things that naturally come later. Some of what we would have liked to have achieved, but which we did not achieve and which we are going to do at the beginning of the new year, is agriculture. The agricultural sector must, of course, have a sectoral strategy, just as we have negotiated it in the other areas. It is an important sector for Denmark, and it is also a sector in which the reductions have not followed the reductions we have seen in other sectors. That is why, of course, it needs to be done better. It is clear that it must be done in a way so that jobs do not just move out of the country. You can do something by taking out low bottom soil. We are doing that and other things you can do by introducing new technology. Other things have to be done again by making tougher demands. We will be negotiating this very soon in the new year. As far as transport is concerned, we are also well under way. But next year, we have to turn the pot into green transport. We need to give extra impetus to the conversion and roll-out of charging stations, and we need to follow up on the work of the Car Commission, as well as a green mobility plan. Then there's the energy islands. The decision to make them has been made, and we also know where they should be, roughly. But what they should look like, what kind of construction it should be and the financial framework of all the really difficult, all the really important decisions • we have to decide on at the beginning of the new year. In addition, strategies for p-t-x, CCS, CCU, electrification of Denmark. And at the end of the year, the expert group will also make recommendations on how to ensure a uniform CO2 all of this will of course not happen in a vacuum. We listen not only to each other, but also to the outside world. We have strengthened the Youth Climate Council. We have strengthened the Climate Council. We've done a Citizen thing. Government climate partnerships have made over 400 recommendations. A great many of them we have actually listened to and have already become reality. We will continue to listen, we will continue to become wiser by learning, we will continue to do these things in dialogue. Mark Twain once said: Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it. In fact, there are some of us in this Chamber who are trying, and we will continue to do so. Thank you for your very good cooperation. I am also looking forward to what is coming this year, and I am also looking forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155507	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155513	Thank you to the Minister for a passionate speech and a trip to the Flyer Grill. I haven't been there myself, but I'll give you another recommendation: The harbor grill at Aarhus Harbour is also a nice place. I was very excited about the trip in terms of looking at the green fuels. I think we all share in this Chamber the Minister's ambition that we should have green fuels and get rid of fossil fuels. That is why the development trail is also an important part of the government's climate plan, in other words everything the government expects a lot of. My question is simply: can the Minister not become clearer about what the likelihood is of, for example, that the power-to-x, which is on page 15 of the climate programme, will deliver? For the estimate, for example. If you're here, you're from 0.5 million. t up to 3,5 million a. Is it possible to become sharper on the part of the government on how to actually come from development to implementation, so that the Minister can sit on the Flyer Grill and look at the green planes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155622	Well, we're gonna get sharper all the time. It is important to bear in mind that when we divide our efforts into two tracks, as we do after guidance from the Climate Council, an implementation trail and a development trail... then at some point it's supposed to be moved from the development trail to the implementation track, because it's all going to become reality. When it comes directly to power-to-x and how great the potential becomes, what we have described there is precisely a potential. This is what we consider possible if I think we have come quite a long way along the road with the transport agreement, which fortunately the author's party was part of, because we are changing the rules so that we are now going to operate with a CO2 It will create the economic incentives that will be needed to ensure that there will be greater demand for, among other things. power-to-x, just as we of course also support the supply side itself by spending money on research and development of power-to-x installations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155727	I forgot to say that here in the first round there is only one question from each of the general rapporteurs, and therefore it is now May Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155735	Thank you. However, I would also like to start at the Flyer Grill, as the Minister did, because that was a rather fun picture: to stand there with Cocioen and the sausage next to Greenpeace, simply outside an airport. That is good enough, I think, utopian, and perhaps not, because it could happen even before 2030. This could happen, for example, if air fares were introduced, as so many other EU countries have done. And I understand that today we are in a corona crisis and that it is a bad idea to do it tomorrow, but by 2030 we must be able to do something, for example, make it fuel-dependent, so that those who fly on green fuels in the future do not have to pay as much as those who do not. It could be a way to work on air fares. And inspired by the Minister's cheeky comment on the Flyer Grill, I would like to start by asking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155834	I have to arrest the fact that it would be totally unrealistic for Greenpeace to praise something we did. So, the North Sea Agreement has just been very, very praised by Greenpeace. I freely admit that I myself was a little confused when they tone forward on the screen and congratulated the government as they did. An international spokesman for Greenpeace called what we had done in Denmark, "I think he said: That's what climate leadership looks like. It is to the honour of all of us, so we shall be delighted about that. Would air fares directly lead to the development of power-to-x? I would say that right now I think that if you are going to have an industry focusing on developing, investing in research, then the first thing you have to make sure is that they do not go downside-down. And we do not think that right now is the time to tax an aircraft sector by fire. Having said that, the aviation sector must, of course, be part of the solution and we will look in the future at how to actually do it. After all, we have also brought the idea into the debate that instead of a tax which could certainly generate revenue, it was perhaps a better idea to look at an incorporation requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155943	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221155946	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I had completely forgotten how positive and optimistic the Minister can be, so it was nice to experience this, and I also believe that the world looks both green and bright and with lots of economic growth. In order to remain optimistic, I would like to ask the Minister something that the Minister also mentioned in his speech here, and this is about these time scales. Because there is a time scale in relation to implementation, i.e. when things have effect, and then there is a time scale in relation to when we decide things. In a debate interview in Berlingske a few weeks ago, the Minister said: "We have ten years to reach 20 million. tonnes, and in a year and a half we have reached seven of them... It's kind of a mix-up of those two time scales, because it sounds like we've already realized 7 million. EUR 20 million out of 20 million. T, we're gonna do this. I would like to ask about the decision-making time line: how far in the 20s does the Minister expect us to go before we can actually say on the decision-making time line that we have taken decisions that will bring us to the end of the whole reduction? Are we talking about 1 year, 2 years or 3 years from now, or are we going to reach all the way through the 20s?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160056	This is a very good question, because it also highlights how much confusion can sometimes be. I mean, what is important is that we reach a target by 2030. It is not so important how much we reduce next year or next year again. If the fact that we have reduced a great deal in the short term meant that we made some wrong investment decisions, which meant that we could not reduce what we were going to do in the long term, it would have been a failed policy. Exactly how close we should be to 2030, before we know exactly how to get there, no one can say. Even the Climate Council says that they find it difficult to point to instruments for more than 60%. That is why it is clear that we are not there yet, but if I am going to try to predict a little about the future now that we are in that spirit today, I would say that when we reach 2025, we are going to set a new target for 2035. So I guess we're starting to talk about 2035 instead of 2030. Actually, I guess so. And then it is true that in about a year and a half we have reached a third of the task we have defined for ourselves and which we have 10 years to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160153	Then it's mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160155	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for a wonderfully hopeful speech, which I think we all hope will come true in space, and perhaps all of us rapporteurs, when we are a little more gray-haired, can also sail out to these energy islands and stand in the midst of these fantastic new green creations, which is one of the things that we are proud of in the Radical Left has gone from something where the Social Democrat thought it was a little utopian and then that it was actually something that was made into politics and that is now becoming reality. So on a long stretch I would like to sign for the good speech and good intentions, and indeed it would have been the perfect speech if the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply had then ended with the sentence: And that is why we set an ambitious 2025 reduction target, where we listen to the Climate Council and go for a 50-54 percent reduction. in 2025. My question is very brief: does the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply consider that it is realistic to achieve our objectives if you only land at 46%? in 2025. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160258	Now Ruben Kidde says we're gonna be gray-haired by then, and I think that's gonna be best-case scenario. In more realistic cases, there may not really be any hair left here on me at least. But yes, I think it is realistic to achieve it. We are certainly also listening to the Climate Council. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. not putting us in the high part of the 54 per cent range, which is such a linear projection, it is because the Climate Council writes that by known means now, if decided, it will lead to a decrease in production. There's no way to do it. Well, that would simply mean that we would have to produce less in this country, and that would not be in line with what we have decided in the Climate Act. In the Climate Act, we have just said that we must be a pioneering country. We will not be if we simply turn down production, lose jobs and lose export earnings. Then it is much wiser to put a line forward towards 2030, which is not just a mathematical formula, but which is based on rationally calculated decisions that make us use the technology that is best, at the time it is best.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160404	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160406	Thank you very much. I really like the fact that the Minister has the courage to visualise a future that is so green that it makes even the green organisations rejoice. I think we should now be careful too soon to take Greenpeace to income to cheer. For example: They believe that we should halve the production of pigs and cows in Denmark, so it takes something before Greenpeace cheers. My question relates to CO2 In relation to the new tax agreement, there was no new CO2 could not have been started as quietly? Why could we not have started by making a meat tax, an airline tax and possibly a petrol tax, with social compensation, of course? The argument was that you couldn't figure it out, but there are some taxes that are just going to go to, so why don't you start there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160500	Perhaps we need to make it clear that with a CO2 what this is all about is the extent to which you can spread it across sectors, so that it becomes a uniform CO2 It is clear that it is not an easy exercise. We are not the only country that is considering this. Many countries do, but no one has done it yet, because it is very, very difficult. I think we will be the first to do so, because now we have actually set up a group of experts to advise us on how to do so, and we have promised each other that this will happen. The reason why we then do not just start with a tax on, for example. It would, of course, be the opposite of what you want, because it would not be a uniform tax, it would actually be an asymmetrical tax, so it would be the opposite of one-sided, but let it be that we think it would have too much inequality-building effects. In fact, we do not believe that it will affect behaviour very much, and to the extent that it would affect behaviour, it would be because there would be some who could not afford to buy meat, and it is probably not reasonable that those who have the least in this country should also be the ones who have to pay for the green conversion. Then we would rather make demands on agriculture so that that way around we actually get greener production.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160613	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160614	Thank you for that, and thank you for the Minister's optimism. I certainly share that, also in view of the fact that we should still be allowed to eat a hot dog and drink a Cocio. But it also requires that there is still world-class farming in Denmark, and that can be one of the things that we should talk about very much in a very long time. I would like to ask: how does optimism correspond to the new objectives just announced by the Minister compared to 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160644	We have said from the government that we must, of course, have an ambitious milestone by 2025. We are a little nervous about whether we are going to set ourselves a target that is so high that in order to achieve it by 2025 instead of 2026 or 2027 we actually spend very, very large amounts which could have been spent better on the green transition. In fact, as the Climate Council also said in their very original guide to us, we think that we should be careful not to set such short-term goals, and if we do so, we should do so in order to put pressure on ourselves. But the most rational thing would probably have been not to have a 2025 target, but to put the plan forward to 2030, but now we have it, and then I also recognise the positive effects that can be in it, because it actually puts pressure on us. At the same time, we must set ourselves an objective which we can actually achieve, otherwise we will lose credibility. And if it is to be an objective that we can meet without it meaning that jobs simply move abroad or that it leads to greater inequality in our country, then there must be something different from what the Climate Council is talking about, which is, in fact, one where the top part of the buckle is just a mathematical formula, which is about a linear reduction without an eye for how to actually do it. After all, the Climate Council itself cannot answer the question of how to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160751	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and first it is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221160815	Thank you for the floor. In December, a year ago, an agreement was reached on a Climate Act for Denmark, and since then a year has been followed, which most could hardly have foreseen a Corona Year, when new concerns about health, employment and economics have come unexpectedly from the sidelines. There is not so much good to say about corona, nor should my speech be about it, but nevertheless I would like to reflect a little on the crisis we have witnessed in recent years. For the past year has also been something else, namely a test of the resilience of the Climate Act, a test of whether the Climate Act was just fine words that could quickly be forgotten again when the business cycle changed. But the Corona crisis does not make a climate crisis go away, it goes without saying. The fact that the Corona crisis has not caused the climate action to go away has been crucial, and fortunately this also speaks its clear language. Because in the first year of life of the Climate Act, we have managed to reach broad agreements that deliver a third of the way towards our 2030 targets. Fortunately, the Danish Climate Act lives well here a year later and still stands away strong, even on top of a very turbulent 2020. I think we can all very much welcome that in this Chamber today. On the European continent, too, it has become a greener EU in the past year, with a new 55-percent target for 2030. Of course, from a Danish perspective we could have wanted even higher ambitions when we ourselves now have it, but that we have managed to bind so many countries to the green mast is in itself completely historic. With China's announcements on CO2 in the Social Democratic Party, we are proud that we managed to conclude so many important agreements over the past year. With the June climate agreement on energy and industry, we have given decisive impetus to technologies such as CCS and power-to-x, which we know will be crucial to our ability to achieve the 2030 target, but also to achieving our goals in the longer term: to be a climate-neutral society by 2050. At the same time, the agreement also contains a lot of initiatives with a great deal of impact on the short track, such as: The destruction of oil and gas pine, energy savings in industry and industry, tax restructuring and much more. In the spring, we also managed to reach an agreement on waste and circular economy, where we are discussing the excessive quantities of special plastic waste from domestic and foreign countries that are being burned off with large CO2 Since then, a green housing agreement has been signed, which triggered green renovations in the general sector. This autumn has also been busy first with a new green research strategy, where we have not only provided research with historically many funds, but also set a direction for where we want to go and support it with targeted research and development. We have also got a car agreement with a high ambition for 1 million electric cars by 2030 and an agreement on a green tax reform that is starting work on a uniform CO2 we also managed to make a historic decision, as the Minister also mentioned, to stop for future tender rounds and close the oil and gas taps in the North Sea by 2050 at the latest, a decision which has attracted attention in the rest of the world and which we hope other countries will also follow. Last but not least, we entered into a Green Finance Act for 2021, which both turns up the funds for well-known instruments and finds money for new technology. I am tempted to quote a former Prime Minister, because all in all we have to say that we have gone through a process of reform, but this time in the green area, and the green reform work must, of course, continue in 2021. We need to move on with our efforts, among other things. with agreements on agriculture, reduction targets for our public procurement, electrification strategy, strategy for CCS and power-to-x, and not least we need to follow up on the many decisions we have taken, so that we get decisions to live in practice for the benefit of our climate. Our ambitions are clear, and in one year's time we will be standing in this Chamber for another debate on the state of affairs with many more important new reductions in the climate review. We very much look forward to continuing that work. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the reduction deficit has already been significantly reduced during the government period and therefore decisive steps have been taken in achieving the 70-percent objective. The Danish Parliament notes that agreements and decisions reached in industry are expected to result in significant greenhouse gas reductions of approx. 7.2 million tonnes of CO2 e, and investments in the green technologies of the future in the long term can contribute with great reduction potentials. The Danish Parliament also notes that more reductions will follow in line with business decisions and the development of the rest of the climate action plan and that further green initiatives will be returned on an ongoing basis. In this context, the Danish Parliament notes that the Government will present an initiative to agriculture early in 2021, including to address the climate and environmental impacts of the sector. At the same time, we need to focus on the green technologies of the future, which, in the long term, can contribute with great reduction potentials, including, for example: pyrolysis, CCS, PtX and green gases, which are also supported by the government's green research strategy. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161421	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There is a brief comment to Mrs Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161425	Thank you for your speech to the always thorough climate rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, whom we must spare for a period of time for another good purpose, but which returns strongly. Now for something a little more serious: the government, which is represented by the Social Democratic Party, has said that the reduction target by 2025 must be 46 per cent. It will therefore require quite considerable reductions from 2025 to 2030, which is roughly over 3 million. t to be reduced annually up to 2030. Does the Social Democratic Party really think this is realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161511	Thank you. What we have said there has to be is a gap between 46 and 50 per cent, and we believe this to be so realistic, and we also believe that it is still realistic to achieve our 2030 target. After all, what is crucial is that we take the right decisions in these years, which show precisely the way forward towards 2030. And there, after all, we have reached a third in a year. The reason why we are not completely in the high field with the 54 per cent is precisely in line with what the Climate Council concludes in their report, namely that production in agriculture, industry and car driving will suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161548	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161549	Just before, the minister was on with an optimism that has not been seen equally. Now it is as if the Social Democracy has just moved around the back of the bus, where we find neither the Flyer Grill nor green fuels. Can the Social Democrat rapporteur not just give me an example of a reduction of 3.7 million at a time in history? T a year, as it will require, if you only hit the bottom of your 2025 targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161619	I cannot give any concrete suggestions, but I would say that optimism is completely intact. We have made a lot of good decisions here in the past year, and what I think is crucial is that we do not just relax and say: okay, then we wait a few years to go ahead with the next important decisions. However, we are keeping a high pace in making the decisions that must make us achieve the 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161651	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161653	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to continue where Mrs Signe Munk left off and ask for the 2025 target, which the government has set out to be a reduction from 46%. And up. It may be more, but it starts at 46 percent. If we look at the new potential there among others. is in biogas, so we are now at 45.4 per cent. This means that only 0.6 percentage points are missing to reach the low end of that span. Can the rapporteur not be afraid that, when we are so infinitely close, the reformer, whom the rapporteur is rightly proud of, has now come to a halt? For we still have potential in the first phase of tax reform and perhaps also in the second phase of tax reform with uniform CO2 I assume that the rapporteur agrees that we need to find something on agriculture and perhaps some of it in the short term. Maybe we could find more on carbon capture. So there are a lot of areas where we could do more. Isn't it unambitious to set the target so low?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161755	I am not really worried that we are taking the pace out of the green transition, because the 2030 target will still be there and it is extremely ambitious. We all know that. We all know that we constantly need to take decisions in order to achieve this. Then I would say that the fact that we set a range from 46 to 50 per cent does not mean that we in the Social Democratic Party have any interest in the goal for us to be that we should just kiss the 46 per cent. We would, of course, like to get as high as possible, but we also think it is important that we also take into account the things contained in the Climate Act to do this in a cost-effective way and make the right decisions that can also help to ensure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161840	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161841	It's good to hear that you want to go higher, because we want to. If you want to go higher, don't you think that's what you've been thinking about compared to the 70-percent target? That it can make us not relax, but that we keep trying hard? Then why not use the same method in relation to the 2025 target and then put it a little higher when the rapporteur stands and admits that you would also like it to be 47, 48 or 49 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161906	I look forward to hearing Mr. Tommy Ahlers' bid for what this target should be. As far as I know, this is not something that the Left has announced so far, and it is a little easier to criticise if you do not report something specific yourself. But I am not really concerned that we are taking the pace out of the green transition. The fact that we get this indicative sub-target will certainly also help push us along and make sure that we keep our eye on the ball. But what I think is absolutely crucial is that we get the right decisions made to achieve the 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161941	Sir. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221161942	Thank you. I would like first of all to acknowledge the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, in order to give some clear indications already, even though a clear figure has not been reported out, i.e. this with an interval bottom of 46 is at least too little. After all, we are also some support parties for the government which, to put it mildly, think is too little, and we propose 50-54, as the Climate Council does. I think the Minister skilfully slipped off on my question earlier. Now I will try to ask the Socialist rapporteur, in other words, whether the rapporteur thinks that if you had to land at 46%. in 2025, so, in the rapporteur's view, would be sufficient for us to be credible in achieving our 2030 target. So 46 percent is equal to 46 percent. Is it enough, or is it, if we end up there, in fact, where we can say that, unfortunately, we will not achieve our goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162046	Well, I'd be happy to answer that again. I do not believe that setting a partial target of 46-50 per cent. in 2025 means it is impossible to reach our 2030 target, not at all. What is crucial is that we have the right decisions taken in these years to ensure that we reach the goal. And whether we're talking about the implementation of a new green tax system or about getting some of these technologies on a large scale, there'll always be some time from the time we make a decision, and that's what we're going to do in these early years until we see the full impact of those decisions. That is why I also think it is crucial to keep an eye on the ball in relation to the 2030 objective and then reach a milestone for 2025, which is realistic and ambitious and where we unite the two considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162141	Sir. Ruben Kidde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162142	I think we are keeping our eyes on the ball, and I also think it was an excellent question from the SF's rapporteur in the past, or a point: if you are too low in 2025, then there will be some incredibly large amounts of CO2 I really think it is to keep your eyes on the ball, and the question is perhaps just whether it does not impress the rapporteur that there are both supporting parties and civil parties who want a reduction target above the bottom set by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162218-2	Of course, it always makes an impression to have this dialogue with other parties, just as it makes an impression what the Climate Council says, and that the Climate Council, for example. going out and saying that it may also be that we have found some reduction potentials that they did not know about a few months ago. It is, of course, the sort of thing that is crucial to get properly lit up. So we look forward to continuing to have some good discussions about where we shall end up in relation to this objective too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162246	But then it's Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162248	Thank you. I would really like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur something simple, namely whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that it is not only crucial what we are emitting in 2030, but that it is also very crucial how much we emit in the years up to 2030, and that it is therefore very important to set ambitious milestones, because it also means something for the accumulated emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162314-2	Yes, I fully agree with that. Of course it has a meaning what the accumulated discharges are. However, I would also like to say that when we have set such an ambitious target as the 2030 target, we also need to be realistic, and I also think that we need to be consistent with what the Climate Act says about doing this in a cost-effective way. And I get nervous when the Climate Council, for example. writes that this upper range of 54 per cent. This would mean that we would then have to have a definite reduction in production in industry or agriculture, or that we would have to put restrictions on people's mobility. That is where I think we are talking about phasing-out rather than conversion. And that is why I think that this is something that we must take seriously in this discussion of what a 2025 target should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162407	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162408	To this extent, I agree with the rapporteur that we must be realistic. However, as far as I am concerned, we need to be realistic when we act now in order to achieve the 2030 target. And I am not worried about the rapporteur too?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162428-2	As I have also said to previous questioners here today, I believe that what will be crucial is that we take the right decisions in time to ensure that we get the reductions that we are going to have by 2030. And that does not mean that it cannot also be an important motivational factor that we set a partial target for 2025. But I think that the 2030 target is crucial here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162452	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162455	I just need to understand something right. Does the Socialist rapporteur think that under no circumstances can we accept a reduction in production if it is the case that we have to achieve our 2030 target?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162508	I believe that there will certainly be some sectors where there will be a reduction in productivity if there are industries that we do not need in the green societies of the future. But what I am nervous about is if we are going to have to go in and have a drop in production in industries that we also need in the future and that there is a global demand in relation to. That is precisely what I am reading from the consideration given by the Climate Council about a 54-percent target in 2025. And I do not think that is the right way to go because I would like to change our industries. I'm not interested in winding them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162545	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162546	Well, what about e.g. meat production? I mean, meat production is what emits the most CO2 and if we, for example. gets CO 2 60%. of Denmark is covered by agriculture. 80% Of what we produce, we use to stuff in animals. After all, we need to reduce the productivity of meat in agriculture if we are ever going to achieve the goal of our CO2 So are we not going to have to reduce meat production in some way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162627	I have no doubt that when we look forward to that famous day on Flyvergrillen, meat production in Denmark, or consumption at least, is lower than it is today, but I do not think that a high 2025 target should be at the expense of a reduction in production in agriculture. I do not see that as the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162653	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Would you be so kind as to have a drink? Thank you. Then we welcome Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221162716	Thank you, Mr President. I've got three people talking to me today. I have a red, a blue and a green, because I've been told I have 10 minutes. But I know the President doesn't like gimmicks, so you won't be allowed to choose which speech you want to hear. I'll let you hear all three of them. The red speech, of course, criticises the government for being more red than green. The blue is about the belief in economic growth and green conversion being able to work together. And the green celebrates everything that happens in the area despite the corona and red domination, both here in Denmark and out in the world. I'll try to spend the most time on the green speech. The first thing the red speech is about is that it is too unambitious and not optimistic enough. It was written before the Minister's speech, which was optimistic, at least when it came to talking about it. But when you look at the government's concrete proposals, it is not optimistic enough. This reminds me a little of what I learned when I became an opposition politician, i.e. that there is something called Morten Bødskov's doctrine. It is that all communication, when in opposition, can be cut over the same read: It is too little, too late and too bad. I think that what the government has put forward when they have come up with their proposals has been too little. There were 500,000 cars which were then negotiated up to 715,000 green passenger cars, but there was an ambition, not a target, about a million. There was a play about 2 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. a. There is a green tax reform that looks only at a very, very limited area and ends with an uneven taxation of CO2 and then there is the 2025 target that we discussed earlier. Although the existing agreements and initiatives already bring us up to 45.4%, the government only wants to set the lower target of 46 percent. Dear government, it is sometimes as if you don't really believe it when it comes to the games and not the speeches that you don't believe that companies want to, don't believe that consumers want to, and then get a little too foot-to-hand. I wish you guys had a little more like that can do-attitude. The second criticism in the red speech is that it is a little unconcrete. We would like to share your belief in technologies, that it will work out, and that we are standing out at the Flyer Grill in 2030 looking at a green Airbus 360 landing, and Greenpeace is cheering with us. But we also know that new technology does not just happen on its own; we have to do something active to get it onto the market and the active one could, for example. be looking at a CO2 you're going to, but unfortunately you're also a little too foot dragging on the road there. I also have some input to the government in this red speech, and that's: Now show a little more openness in this area, because you have a pretty broad Parliament that wants to do this. We would have liked to know more when we were negotiating energy and industry. There we would have liked to know a little more about how much you expected to get in transport, so we knew how far we should go, and then we might have gone further there with some more money for biogas and perhaps with a coal stop in 2025. Now that we are going to discuss the 2025 target, we would like to know a little more about your agricultural proposals, which we are not allowed to know about either. I don't know what you're afraid of by putting it forward now, that is, what you expect and what your big plan is. Another and final part of my input in the red speech to the government is: Keep your appointments. When we sit back in June and make an agreement on energy and industry and there is a section on green tax reform and it clearly states that the government will end in the autumn and the political autumn shortly to come up with a proposal for a green tax reform, which among other things. contains models for a uniform CO2 that is not good enough. But I am also hopeful, also in relation to the Red Government, because I actually believe that you want to, and I also think that we have seen sometimes that you can be convinced. I look forward to seeing this in the forthcoming negotiations. And then it is good that there are genuine green parties in the red block, and thank you for your cooperation. It may be that we do not agree on all the details on the way there, but it certainly helps that, that we agree that it should be green. Then there is the blue speech, and now I am not going to speak out for all the blue parties here today, but I can only say that blue can also be green, and in the Left we want to contribute to the green transformation of Denmark and the world. And I hope the government has taken note of that too. We are in a place now and here where the obligation to act becomes clearer and clearer, but we are also in a place where more and more people want it. It is both citizens and it is companies. And then, as politicians, we have to catch that ball. We believe, and fortunately we share this ambition with the government, that this can go hand in hand with economic growth. We believe that in the green transition we can take care of Danish companies, take care of the jobs and the economy that are already there. However, I would also like, and this is also a promise to the House today, to be better able to focus not only on those we need to be careful of but also on those we are creating new opportunities for when we talk about business. Because there is a basis for creating some huge business success in this area within the whole range of green conversion. We must remember them, and that is why we must also remember to focus on general business policy, because it is only with a strong competitive power in Danish companies that we will realise this huge potential. We want to help the Left move things around. We have shown this in phase one of the green tax reform, and I hope that you too have shown this in the negotiations on green transport, but we will not be helping to raise taxes, taxes and burdens overall. It must be possible to move around what is already happening out there, so we make it more green without just putting on top. That is why, as a natural consequence of this, we are also involved in using room for manoeuvre on the green transition. This is not something we should be able to use for both welfare and climate; it is not earmarked for welfare. Most of all, we believe in blue, I think, in general terms, that this has to be resolved through the market. It's the company that has to solve it. This is not a question of political projectmaking, where we have to sit and find support schemes and regulate all the way to a 70-percent reduction by 2030 and neutrality by 2050. It is the market that has to solve this, and it is the companies. That is why we also need to have a discussion on how to create the best framework for that market. That's where we don't get around a CO 2 2 When I went out and said that I thought there was a lack of a climate partnership and I had been jealous of the government's 13 climate partnerships, but thought there was a lack of a • and asked entrepreneurs to make a 14th climate partnership, was one of the things they came back with and recommended, a CO 2 For in this way, the new technologies will have a place in the market. Of course, we believe in internationalism, and that is why there is much of this that needs to be resolved under both the EU and the UN, and we are still getting away to that and we as a country must invest massively in it. The last element of the blue speech is about faith in research. This is about a fou allowance, which we have set up to 130 per cent. Both in 2020, 2021 and 2022. It is about the universities making it even easier for the new research to enter the market and get their patent. It is about something as simple as an entrepreneurial team that comes out and helps researchers commercialise their ideas. So there's a lot we'd like to do with the Left and I hope also in the blue. And we look forward to continuing to make agreements with the Red Government. So finally to the green speech, and now there's only 1 minute and 30 seconds, so I'm gonna make it a little fast, but it's important. The first is: how proud we should be that we have a language with the Climate Act, we can speak from where we clearly say that we have to achieve a 70-percent reduction, where we know the figures • 20 million. We know and we know when we've made a deal how close we've come. Is 0.5 million. or is 1 million. t enough or not enough? It is very, very strong and it will actually seem a bit like a currency that we can all relate to and that no one can hide from, either side or side of the House. We have a method with the Climate Act rules, a climate programme, a comment, a climate action plan and an assessment of it. We will also be discussing whether there will be an obligation to act now in February, and just as slowly I think we will all be better at using the methodology of the Climate Act. And then we have a world, as Mrs Anne Paulin also said, which will. This is crazy! We did not say there when we adopted the Climate Act, but today we have the 55-percent target in the European Union, and a China • China It is probably not because they want to be completely green; it is because they have also seen what we have to keep an eye on in Denmark, namely that this is a huge opportunity for business. The green transition is a huge business opportunity, which is why it is also important to set an ambitious 2025 target so that we will not be those who are leading the climate, but are lagging behind the opportunities for the Danish business community. That's how high from the green top of the tree it's gonna shine anyway. Thank you. Then I have a proposal for adoption, I would like to read out on behalf of the Left and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption • The green transition requires significant steps. Although some broad climate agreements have been drawn up in 2020, we are far from achieving our goal. Business plays a crucial role in the green transition, which is why it is important that their competitiveness is strengthened in the coming years and not weakened by higher taxes and taxes. The Danish Parliament is instructing the government to launch negotiations on further measures to achieve the 70% target, which requires new ambitious steps under a green tax reform and includes the fact that next year core elements will be clarified in the design of a Danish CO2 The road towards the 2030 target includes both decisions to be implemented and technology to be developed, but the balance must be right and the CO2 e-reductions are implemented as soon as possible. Therefore, the government is required to introduce a sufficiently high indicative 2025 reduction target, which is higher than what the government has already presented. • V 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20201221163818	Thank you. There are quite a few brief comments. I just want to remind you that we're not using direct charges. This has actually happened many times in this debate. We would all like to keep what is in the Rules of Procedure. I think we agree on that. We shall proceed with the brief remarks. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221163836	Thank you, sir. Tommy Ahlers for three speeches in one ingenuity is great as usual. We have made an agreement on car taxes, which gives 775,000 more green cars on the Danish roads, and there is an ambition for a million green cars. Left and Mr. Tommy Ahlers said that, unfortunately, the left could not participate because it became more expensive to be a Dane. We can call this round one more time for Mrs Signe Munk. Because I don't quite understand it. In that agreement we have just put 2.5 billion extra kroner into the green conversion of the car park. Yes, the taxes on black cars are being increased, but in return there are huge tax reductions for green cars. Well, then, sir. Tommy Ahlers does not just explain to me, Mrs Signe Munk, once again why the Left cannot be part of a car agreement where money is actually spent on making cars cheaper and where you get many green cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221163944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221163944-2	I am glad that Mrs Signe Munk put a sadly into her speech, because I also think it is a pity that we are not included in the agreement, because I would like to admit that there are actually many good elements in the green tax concessions too. However, it is a 10-year agreement that is made, and the government will only deal with using the room for manoeuvre and investing in green tax reliefs, so net tax reliefs for the first 5 years. For the next five years, there will be a huge bill out there. When you add all ten years together, I believe that there is in fact a total burden of 12 billion. kr., but a total tax relief of 8 billion. kr., i.e. an additional load of nearly 4 billion. kr., as I remember the numbers. And it comes mainly from this CO2 and it's a pretty big bill. And the fact that we couldn't have a talk about how we pick it up from 2025 and in the years up to 2030, made us unfortunately unable to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164042	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164042-2	If you have to sum it up: the Left cannot be included in green agreements if they are not taken away from welfare. Is that how to understand the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164055	No, and Mrs Signe Munk knows that very well is not the position of the Left. We stand by our promise of prosperity, which is 69 billion. kr. Until 2025. And there is room in the room also after 2025 to spend money on both climate and welfare. So I think we should be careful with this rhetoric of saying that if we take money from the room, we take it from the well-being. We just don't buy it. We can also use money from the green switchboard. It is as important an element in Danish society as welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164125	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164128	I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers for a good speech. And then I would like to ask a few questions about this proposal for adoption, which Mr. Tommy Ahlers was reading. I understand that the indicative sub-target for 2025 must be sufficiently high and that it must be higher than the government's proposals, and I read it a little so that perhaps agreement could not be reached among the proposers of the proposal for adoption. So I am interested to hear: has agreement been reached in the Left on what is considered to be quite high?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164206	That is a very good question, Mrs Paulin, and it is also to be expected. I do not believe that this is a matter of consensus or disagreement, either between the Left and the Conservatives as authors of the motion or within the Left. It is about the fact that there are some more details we would like to see. We would also like to have some more details from the government's agricultural proposals, but I do not think we will get that until we set the target. So it's more to make it a little more concrete so it's not just a throw some numbers around-discussion, but that it can also be a little more concrete. And we've gotten somewhere along the way... we can see what we can get out of being able to do more than, for example. a carbon stop in 2025, and we'll take that with us. So we shall come to the negotiations with a good input to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164249	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164250	However, it is no wonder that the government cannot say exactly what is in the agricultural proposal at this time, in that we have said that it will be at the beginning of next year. But on the other hand, Mr. Tommy Ahlers, of course, what lies in the Left's farm play and what you have of plans there. Well, then, sir. Tommy Ahlers doesn't say on that basis what that means in relation to your indicative sub-target, that is, what it means for where it should lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164321	Again: you have to try to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164323	Unfortunately, I have forgotten the agricultural issue of the Left, so I cannot answer that precisely. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I do not quite buy the premise that, because there will be a play later, then you cannot give a what to say span, in relation to what you think can be delivered on it. Why not? We have a lot of things to discuss and we have a funding to discuss, but I think the government can put forward that they expect us to find between 0.5 and 1 million. We must then negotiate on this, that is to say, in relation to the financing. Because it is often there that we have seen in these areas that the tough discussion is, so not that how and the discussion is still gone, even though perhaps one month before the show comes, reveals what you think you can find in the field. That is the openness I am a little asking for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164418	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164421	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur for an as always witty speech, but also a speech with ambition, as I sense it. And I would like to ask a few questions about those ambitions, because it is important in these climate debates that you are keen on what you really want and that it is not all fine words. Therefore, I would like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about the uniform high CO2 level, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur quite simply: if we in the Enhedslisten, perhaps together with the SF and Radicals, put forward a proposal in this Chamber that towards 2030 we should phase in a high uniform CO2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164520	The questions will be very precise here. I like that. No, I do not think we will, because I think we actually share the view expressed by the government and also by the Danish industry in relation to this, that we should be careful that CO2 We believe it is one of the most powerful instruments in the drawer, but we will also do other things. After all, we are operating with low-level land, and I hope we will discuss that with a specific funding that has been set aside for low-level land. This may mean that the marginal cost of the technology means that we do not have to be up to DKK 1,200. After all, we have already decided on aid schemes for biogas. So there are a number of elements that we are still going to use politically. I just think that, with regard to CO2, with what we know now, we will not be voting in favour of a level that is all the way up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164617	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164617-2	Thank you. So should I just try to understand what the position of the Left in relation to a CO2 is? How high does the rapporteur think the tax should be? Who is to be compensated? I understand that this is a technically complex issue, which therefore needs to be clarified, but as a party you must have some pointers for where it is, otherwise it is all just words instead of something you want in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164647-2	I am not going to report any specific amounts here. We believe, for example, that it is too low if we are only to place it in relation to the quota system • we think it should be higher than that. But as to whether it should be 1,200 or 1,500 kroner, we do not yet know enough in terms of who will pay. We believe very much in what Kraka has put forward in relation to a bottom-up payment... the model seems quite appealing... but we would just like the Treasury to say whether it can be done in a Danish context and whether it can be done in relation to the state aid rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164723	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164726	Thank you. I believe that some of the direct charges are due to the fact that we climate rapporteurs have been very much together over the last few months with an incredible amount of work to follow up on after the 22 June agreement. I would like to sign for three very fine speeches: a cheek egg of fine speeches; and I would like to say that I understand that the rapporteur of the Left may find it difficult to see what the effect on agriculture is in 2025, based on the fact that we have not seen the government's proposals yet, although we know that it had actually been printed. It would be nice to have a little more detail, which is why it's a little difficult for all of us to get very clever about it. However, I would also like to sign for what the rapporteur says about green taxes, where I sense that core elements will be clarified early next year, in other words as early as next year. Can the rapporteur say how important an instrument of CO2 is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164844	Thank you for the question. If we look at what has been put forward in phase one, then has something that might remind us of a CO2 per year. GJ, an effect of 0.5 tonnes by placing it in some areas, but broad producer areas. So, if you spread it out more it could be either in phase one of the tax reform or as a uniform CO2 We're going to ask the minister and the government if they can be more precise on where they could see it. But we are not opposed to a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164936	Sir. Ruben Kidde for a new remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221164938	What I was able to read from the proposal for adoption was also the fact that the Left and the Conservatives together stress that new ambitious steps must be taken under this green tax reform, and that next year, after the Committee of Experts has made their recommendations, core elements must be clarified in the formulation of a uniform Danish CO2 level. That sounds to me as if we also have the support of the Left for something that we in the Radical Left want, precisely to have a major political debate and debate as early as next year, when we can already put clear points of reference on what this CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165025	Well, the rapporteur can have that here today: we want the discussion we are going to have after the first sub-report from this group of experts not only to discuss whether it can be done in Denmark, but also to point out some core elements. It could be whether the bottom allowance is a solution that works in Denmark and whether it is EU-sustainable. This could be in relation to when you could start with the phase-in and how the phase-in profile might look. It could be elements that are about whether it can go out in all sectors, or whether there are some industries we have to wait on, for example. agriculture. We would like to have a discussion about those elements as early as next year. We are also happy to take the discussion on price levels, which Mrs Villadsen asked about, but I do not know if it is realistic that the expert group is ready with already after sub-report one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165109	Thank you. And then there are no further comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. It's nice to see so many men clean up so, it's really a good experience (happiness here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165138	Thank you, President-in-Office. Then we have the annual one could say: ritual debate on the state of the empire in relation to energy and climate policy. And it is a bit like the last time we were here, when the Minister wondered whether the glass was now half empty or half full. On the one hand, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party have also joined the ambition to reduce Danish CO2 by 2030. On the other hand, it is no secret that agreements have been concluded lately, which we have not been able to see as part of. It's in being green for some for the sake of the green; for others, because it's become a more popular way just to be old-fashioned red. And we want to be green in the Danish People's Party, but it is very, very far away from us to be red unless there is a white cross across. So, for example, the government reaches... Makes an agreement with the left to want to have a number of electric cars on the Danish market at a considerable amount of taxpayers' money, which could have been achieved completely free by waiting a few years, yes, then we have it so in the Danish People's Party that that money could well have been spent elsewhere. We can control our impatience in relation to the number of electric cars. Similarly, it is very, very difficult to understand the logical and the sensible and the green to now make an agreement that I recognise is broader than the electric car agreement, about future green taxes and taxes, which means that no one really knows what is ahead. The only thing you can say for sure is that something is going to happen in 2023, but exactly what exactly, yes, we don't know. And that is bad signals for us to see; it is a bad idea to spend money on something you can get free of charge, and it is a bad idea to say to consumers and to the market that you have no idea at all how taxation and tax structure etc. It's gonna look like it. Because we need certainty so that both those who create jobs and those who live directly on them have the opportunity to adapt. In the Danish People's Party we therefore have a quite pragmatic approach to the whole question of energy policy and the green transition. We believe that the 70-percent objective can create growth and jobs. We are very concerned, among other things. what is called power-to-x, that is, a strategy for how we better use all the power that we now have to produce, also at completely newly laid islands and how it comes to the world. We believe that, for example, the good ideas that the Minister also had about new fuels for aircraft and for ships and too heavy transport, etc., will be something that we can make a living from exporting in the future, simply because the whole world will see the logic of it, both because it is the green and hence the smart solution here, but also because it will probably be a little longer and hopefully the most economically sensible solution. That is why we were pleased with the agreement we made back in the summer of this year, when we just had a great deal of money set aside for power-to-x, that is to say some kind of use of the power that we do not know how to use today. We are also pleased that the government has finally come out of the starting blocks in relation to how we transport the current around the country. And then we're really happy that we managed to get so much money devoted to what is known as CCS and CU... we live in such an acronym age here... which is basically about how we can use the CO2 in a good way. But for us in the Danish People's Party, it's also crucial that when we make these investments and when we make new devices, it has to be done in a way that is also thought of those in society who may be affected by new installations, new wind turbines etc. And that is why we have been happy to be able to make a new agreement, on the one hand, on how to get a real windmill ceiling and, on the other hand, on how to get better compensation for those who are hit by shadow throws and noise and such things from the windmills. In relation to the wind turbine ceiling, the old ceiling would actually be phased out now that the PSP stops. In the new ceiling we have created, we will have a real and binding system in place so that the number of mills on land will be reduced in the next few years. This is really good news for many of the people around the country who feel bothered by the fact that there are increasingly larger wind turbines, which thus create major problems. That is why we are on the one hand and on the other; we think that the objective is right, but not all the measures supported by a majority in this Parliament can be seen in ourselves. We would like to focus on technological developments. We want to invest in being one of the countries in the world, one of the areas in the world that creates the technologies that the rest of the world will want. Therefore, on behalf of S, RV and SF, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption: The Danish Parliament stresses that the green transition and the 70% target must be achieved in an economically responsible way, where Denmark must be at the forefront of developing new green technologies that can be transformed into exports and jobs. The Danish Parliament therefore recalls the June 2020 Climate Agreement, which calls for a national strategy for CO2 capture, CU and power-to-X. Recently, a group of 18 Danish companies and organisations published a power-to-X report with a clear recommendation that an invitation to tender should already be held in 2021 to support the first lighthouse projects in power-to-X production. The Folketing supports this wish and therefore regrets the slowness of the government. A concrete strategy is urgently needed if these new technologies are to contribute to CO2 reductions by 2030, thereby ensuring new Danish growth opportunities. Getting these technologies on an industrial scale takes time, costs investment and requires market building. Parliament therefore calls for a clear strategy for power-to-X and CCS/CCU to be quickly presented. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165825	Thank you for that and there is one comment. Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165827	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for a good speech and for sincerely putting meat on the Danish People's Party's climate and energy policy. On the netmedie ditvisk.dk it said a year ago: "The left wing will stop oil extraction in the North Sea for the sake of climate. But it is naive, says Danish People's Party climate and energy rapporteur Morten Messerschmidt. As you know, one year later, the Danish People's Party is part of the agreement that stops oil and gas extraction in the North Sea in 2050. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has become naive, or was it really the left who were realists?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221165912	No, it's basically a bad deal. I have to be completely open and admit it, but it's a less bad deal than it would have been if the Danish People's Party hadn't been there. We know quite clearly from the Danish Energy Agency that Danish oil and gas production has no impact on global demand for oil and gas, nor does it affect the price formation of oil and gas. Whether we in Denmark produce oil and gas in the future therefore has no impact on global demand for oil and gas and therefore no impact on the emissions of CO2 Therefore, our position has always been that we should continue to produce, even after the day when we in Denmark may not be asking for and using oil and gas ourselves, simply because as long as someone in the world is asking for it, it is silly not to let the most climate-friendly oil and gas produce, namely the one we have in Denmark. However, we recognised that there was a majority wishing to stop it, and we therefore threw ourselves into the struggle to get at least a little bit of sense into the agreement and, as you know, we succeeded in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170015	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170016	I think I will avoid messing up too much of all the allegations, but just ask if the Danish People's Party could also be interested in actually taxing the CO2 a green tax reform. Could it also be something where the Danish People's Party will move in on what I would call a realistic track?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170035	I can inform Mrs Signe Munk that production in the North Sea has been taxed at least for many decades. So this is not a new phenomenon, and I can also say that it is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been pleased with both that some resources were created and that it could then be taxed and that it could be used on good welfare schemes. I think the Minister has stated in the past that it is 500 billion. kr., Over the years Denmark has got up in the North Sea and in this way could build up Danish society, and we think that is nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170110	Thank you. There are no more comments. We move on to Mr. Ruben Kidde from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221170121	Thank you. After all, in the midst of the uncertainty and isolation of the corona crisis, it has been uplifting to see how virtues as a community and responsibility have flared up. And with the second wave of winter, the Danes stand out and fight a little more, even if it is hard. It is not a matter of course that people take a look at everyday differences of opinion and stand together to resolve a crisis; it only happens when there is a government and a political system that is willing to take leadership on itself. And leadership is exactly what is required if we are to combat the climate crisis effectively, and that is why I believe that the government should take the lead and show more green action and leadership. It has several opportunities to do so in the political year before us. Next year, we will be negotiating a major climate agreement for agriculture, in which we have a unique opportunity to transform a sector that accounts for about a third of our greenhouse gas emissions. We also need to move on with green construction and green public procurement, and not least in the autumn we need to enter an important, important debate on the next step in green tax reform, where we have the political opportunity to send out a clear price signal for CO2 and before we start all this, we also need a 2025 target that ensures that Denmark can take significant green steps on the shorter track. That is why, to put it mildly, it is not encouraging with the government's presentation, which is only 46-50 per cent. This is not really a commitment to taking responsibility for more than half a million tonnes of reductions in the next five years. Nor does the government listen to the Climate Council, which, as you know, is 50-54 per cent. However, the reason why we must have an ambitious target as early as 2025 is partly because we are binding on the government to give priority to the climate area, so that, for example, we do so. avoids the highly reviled hockey stick, which therefore postpones virtually all decisions until the end of the decade, and ensures that Denmark also makes its contribution to the Paris Agreement and the global temperature target, because the more reductions we ensure in 2025 and the lower the accumulated Danish greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Furthermore, ambitious short-term action also helps to ensure that there is credibility behind our climate policy so that citizens, business and foreign countries can see that we actually mean what we are saying and that we are actually going to live up to our ambitious target by 2030. The Radical Left will fight for a climate target by 2025 that is compatible with the Climate Council's recommendations, so that credibility remains behind the Climate Act. There are several cost-effective ways to achieve this target of at least 50%. reduction in 2025. It is acting, for example. on carbon in 2025, including the phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk, the removal of low bottom soils in agriculture and negotiations in 2021 on a green tax, where a CO2 It is no secret that the Radical Left believes that a high 2025 target is inextricably linked to major decisions on a CO2 We are really tired of the fact that we are not already closer to a clarification of the tax level, but, as we know, it was obstructed by the government, which did not fully comply with the agreement of 22 June to clarify the models. However, it is worth pointing out that the agreement on green tax reform has decided that Denmark will have a uniform and cross-cutting taxation of CO2 e emissions and that all talk about CO2 is now just about ensuring that things are going fast enough. Our plan is that at the first debate next year we will be able to clarify the core elements of the final design of a Danish CO2 There are very great perspectives in the green tax trail, and there are great battles of swords that need to be taken, not least with the government to get us started quickly getting the right effects. We Radicals recognise that there are many out there who are disappointed and also frustrated that we have not managed to get even further with a green tax already. I can only say that we are fighting day and night for green ambitions to be fulfilled and that we will be the last to leave the negotiating table on the green battlefield. To be honest, however, we are incomprehensible as to why the green area needs to be so big a battlefield, incomprehensible as to why we are constantly seeing the social democratic government playing embarrassingly low, so that other parties, both supporting parties and parts of the opposition, must fight so hard to raise the level of ambition. That is also why this speech is not full of praises, despite the fact that we have actually made a number of important agreements this year, among other things. on energy and industry, on energy islands, on the phasing out of oil pine, on transport, on the ambition of one million green electric cars, on the North Sea agreement, etc. etc. Because even if it really gives cause for hope and more optimism that we in Denmark have implemented more agreements in the last year than most people probably had the imagination to imagine just a few years ago, it is not to be overlooked that there is still a lack of bite in many of the agreements. And then, politically, there is still much resistance at both blue and red camps to use the tax instrument and the economic scope to speed up the transition. This brings me back again to the comparison with the government's ability to show leadership in the corona crisis. Why do the Socialists not want to show clear and sufficient green leadership? Does the government not listen to the UN Secretary-General calling for climate relief? Manmade CO2 Global warming, according to the UN climate panel, will reach 1.5 degrees between 2030 and 2052, if it continues at its current pace. And without political action, warming will reach approx. Three degrees in 2100. We are already seeing the consequences: drought, heat waves, forest fires, floods and storms are becoming more and more frequent. People die as a result of climate change, which, especially in the poor part of the world, pushes malnutrition, malaria, heat-related deaths and refugee crises. With a conservative estimate, man-made climate change will lead to a quarter of a million additional deaths every year between 2030 and 2050 according to the WHO. So it makes sense that the Radical Left and the supporting parties insist every year that Denmark allocates additional funds to the Finance Act to climate aid, and therefore it makes a great deal of sense that both the EU and the United States are taking more responsibility. As far as the EU is concerned, it is with the higher 55-percent target by 2030, and in the case of the United States it is re-entering the Paris Agreement. But it is high time to stop the toast speeches about Denmark being a pioneering country, just because we have a high climate target to set targets is not the same as achieving goals. According to the Climate Council, it will cost 15-20 billion. kr. to meet the 70-percent target by 2030 on an annual basis. That is a great deal, but it is possible to achieve the objective. The cost is only less than 1%. of Denmark's total bnp. That is why today, from the Radical Left, there must be a clear call for the government to be even more ambitious in thought, words and action than it has been in 2020, when, despite several agreements, we have felt that the government's top ministers have tried to slow down climate action on long stretches. I am referring, for example, to the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. to the time when the climate minister called my party rabid in the climate debate with reference to CO2 when the Prime Minister almost sounded like an echo of Bjørn Lomborg and said that it is not worthwhile to act ambitiously in the climate area now, but that we are better off waiting for technological fix later in the decade. Climate change is already tangible, and that is why we must act now, because we have had winters almost without frost and summers with heat waves and cloudbreaks and that is only the beginning. It is our children and grandchildren who pay for climate beers, and they will pay even more if we do not take on more responsibility and leadership now. We must not abandon the hope of green change. It is time for the government to listen more to climate experts and set a high 2025 target and reduce the hockey stick to a political 24-hour fly. If we do that, I have no doubt that we can be positive and a pioneering country in Europe. If the government runs away from its climate commitments by setting too low a 2025 target, then the gap between words and action will simply become too great, and it can help to jeopardise our ambition to be a genuine green pioneer country, and then we will actually do more harm than good. The Prime Minister has said she's a Social Democrat before she's green. But we are faced with a crisis that is so serious that you cannot just be a social democrat, a liberal, a Dane or a Swede when you tackle it. It is the crisis of humanity, and we all have to be green first. Because ultimately political leadership, which goes into the history books, is not about making it easy, but about doing the right thing. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out. The parties behind the adoption text are the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Proposals for adoption The climate crisis requires a radical green transition. Since 2019, decisions have been taken that contribute to expected reductions of approx. 7.2 million tonnes of CO2 e by 2030, including: through the agreement on a green waste sector, the reorganisation of car taxes and the climate agreement on energy and industry, as well as the first step in a green tax reform. Nevertheless, we are far from achieving our goal. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to launch negotiations on further measures to achieve the 70% target, including significant CO2 e-reductions in agriculture through both taxes and regulation, as well as new ambitious steps under a green tax reform, which means that as early as next year core elements will be clarified in the design of a Danish uniform CO2 e-tax. The road towards the 2030 target includes both decisions to be implemented and technology to be developed, but the balance must be right and the CO2 e-reductions are implemented as soon as possible. Therefore, the government is required to introduce an indicative 2025 reduction target in accordance with the Climate Council recommendation and to dismiss the hockey staff. • V 42)
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171225	Thank you. Like the other proposals for adoption, this is also part of the further debate. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171236	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I think I would just like to say thank you for standing here together and having a joint text for adoption, and thus saying that, in relation to the sub-objective presented by the government, it is simply too little. So I would like to start by signing for that to the rapporteur. In addition, I would like to ask a little about the recent climate agreement, namely the agreement to stop new oil extraction by 2050. I would really like to hear what the position of the rapporteur and the Radical Left is in relation to whether, in fact, your optics should stop even before, and whether the eighth round of invitations to tender still makes sense in order to allow minirounds to run, which means that more oil extraction will actually be allowed up to 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171327	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171328	I noted, two or three hours before the agreement landed and the text of the agreement was actually published in Politiken, that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was just out on Twitter and praised the agreement and cheered over it, because the Enhedslisten has been fighting for this for many years. So basically, I believe that, on most lines, we share the enthusiasm that this has happened and, as we also talked about earlier in this Chamber, Greenpeace has also supported internationally and has come out with praise. It is clear that not everything is perfect in the agreement, but it is now a major international and leading agreement to which we have managed to gain broad support, and we are proud that we have been involved. In fact, that is almost the only thing I can highlight from the last year when I think the government has set up something that shows genuine green leadership and just makes Denmark a pioneering country in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171434	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171434-2	Thank you again for the floor. It is true, I think, that this shows genuine green leadership from Denmark. On the other hand, it can be said that there was not much else to do, in and with the bidder had withdrawn. So I would like to ask the rapporteur again: what is the Radical Left's position on making an earlier oil stop? And what do you think of the fact that this agreement is preserved, it's really good on many stretches; it's historic; it allows increased oil extraction from the mini-rounds? What does the Radical Left think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171507	Overall, this agreement reduces what would come out in oil and gas recovery by 10-15 per cent. Forever. That is what costs 13 billion. kr., which is a bill we then pay. So basically, it is an agreement that significantly reduces. It is clear that we in the Radical Left were also looking to see whether we could stop earlier and whether we could reduce further, and we have ended up with the compromise that I still want to emphasise is a good compromise in which we are leading the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171545	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171548	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very fine speech. I would just like to pick up on what Mrs Mai Villadsen asked about here, i.e. whether the rapporteur can not just confirm that the agreement we have made and thanks for the cooperation on it, also to the government, in other words about the oil stop in the North Sea, was also about creating fixed framework conditions for those who are out there, as far as 2050, and whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is settlement bound, so we agree that the end date is 2050 and that it is not suddenly going to be an earlier date.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171622	It is the case that we in the Radical Left and also the SF and looked out to the Danish People's Party have been behind agreements on the 1st-7th round of invitations to tender. And for those tendering rounds there are some conditions for the players, where one thing is then removed, precisely the open door system, but otherwise the agreement also says that we will then respect the agreements we have entered into. After all, this creates some certainty about the agreements that have already been concluded, and we think that is only fair. The previous agreements are, of course, valid and, on the other hand, we are helping to ensure that everything else is equal, that there is a fairly substantial reduction in the future, in relation to how much oil and gas comes from the North Sea. So yes, this is an agreement again, where we then remove the 8th round of invitations to tender and all future invitations to tender. But that is also the case. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171725	Thank you to the rapporteur for that confirmation. I have a question for the rapporteur in relation to what the rapporteur's party has of expectations of what is happening over the next few years in relation to climate agreements. I referred to this in my question to the Minister, that is to say about which decision hockey stick, which is sometimes referred to as turning the other way. Now, if we look forward to the end and we are back here in two years, how many million tonnes does the rapporteur want us to agree on, not in relation to the 2025 target, but in relation to the 2030 target?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171803	That's a good question. At least we have the ambition that we will have agreements in the coming years, so we can see that we are just on track in 2025 towards this 50-54 per cent. So we're already gonna have to go over 5-6 million in 2025. a. It is clear that our great ambition is also that we are going really hard to work on solving this with CO2 It may be hard to put on a formula, exactly how much comes out of it, but it is one of the things that can ensure that we reach the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171848	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that Greenpeace praises the fact that the North Sea Oil Agreement has stopped for the eighth round of invitations to tender. Can the rapporteur also confirm that Greenpeace actually criticises the end date and criticises the mini-rounds, although they are pleased that the eighth round of invitations to tender has been dropped?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171910	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221171911	I have mostly noticed the rose, I would say, and in relation to the press clips I have seen, what we have decided is really a great pleasure. However, it is clear that it is not perfect, and the Radical Left does not believe that the agreement has been precisely cut as we wanted and, as I also saw the SF in that negotiating room, they were perhaps a little more offensive than any of the bourgeois parties. But bottomline is that this is an agreement where Denmark is then the largest oil producer in the EU and one of the largest in Europe, which sets such an end date, and it is also something that will push, for example. Our Norwegian friends when next time they have to make a decision on whether to make a new bidding round. So I think basically yes. I am sure Greenpeace also has some men's over it, and we have that ourselves, but basically I think this is a really, really positive agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172013	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172014	In the alternative, it is actually more about the Radical Left helping to prolong the gas and oil drilling in the North Sea than about the fact that they are helping to stop them. In 2017, a framework agreement with discounts was signed up to 2050. In our opinion, for lack of commercial interest, oil and gas drilling in the North Sea would have been ebbed out by 2035 or by 2040. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a great likelihood that the Radical Left has actually helped to extend drilling to 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172052	No, I don't think so. After all, the rapporteur of the alternative has not been present for the negotiations and has been given an answer to the incredible number of questions that have been asked, and it is clear that the alternative has some other conditions that they are working on here. I would say that basically it is clearly all the answers we have received to all the many questions that we have asked that clearly show that there will be a decline in that is also why this is costing 13 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172132	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172135	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur refers to describing government policy as a hockey stick, in which decisions must only be taken very late. I would like to hear from the rapporteur where it is from. That is precisely what our climate programme says, and we have been very clear about the fact that it is about making decisions early. But it is true that there are some effects that will then only come later. So where does the rapporteur get the impression that the hockey staff is about taking decisions at a very late stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172211	At any rate, I have clearly received the impression from the Social Democratic Prime Minister and Finance Minister, who is now on maternity leave, that the hockey staff approach is that it is precisely not going to take all the reductions on the short track, such as the one we are discussing today. The Climate Council is proposing a 50-54 percentage target in 2025, but it would rather wait until more technology is cheaper and then invest in the end of the decade. That is the clear view I have received. I also took the view that this was really something that was said before the negotiations we entered into in the autumn, which helped, like talking about climate action a little into a black hole, and that since then it has been marked by the fact that every time the government comes up with a proposal, it is something that is very low, and then we have to negotiate it up. However, the rapporteur is very happy to clarify where the difference lies, and I can try to give a better answer next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172316	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172317	I think I would rather ask a question on another point, as the rapporteur also mentioned. A few weeks ago, the rapporteur helped to reach an agreement on a green tax reform, such as: The leader of the rapporteur's party called a historic agreement. I think the rapporteur is now a little opposed to the agreement here today, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur how many reductions the rapporteur thinks can be found by 2025 on a CO2 tonne which is part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172359-2	What I did was actually to repeat a criticism which also came from the rapporteur of the Left in the past: that of course we are really, really sorry that the models that we should have had already did not come and therefore we could not go any further. Having said that, however, we are also pleased that the agreement will confirm that this is what we are going for, and we are working on the need for a uniform CO2 so that is why it is historic. I think it is easy to get up on, for example. 3 million t in 2025 by going to it on a CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172436	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for comments. The next is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221172455	Thank you for that, President. 50%, climate neutral, baseline projection, CO2 by 2030, security of supply. Technically? Yeah, enough for most people. Climate policy can quickly become a discussion on numbers and techniques. For some, it may seem as if it is only a matter of percentages, and here, in the year of the Climate Act, zero and close to the end of the year, I would like to raise my eyes slightly. Basically, the climate crisis and the management of the climate crisis are about ensuring the same security for the next generations as we are experiencing today. We want security for our loved ones, and we want to know that our children will have the same freedom or more freedom than the one we have benefited from. But fighting the climate crisis is also uplifting, and perhaps the most uplifting thing is that if we get global warming under control, we will ensure a safer world with less conflict and fewer natural disasters than the prospect is today. We can already see the signs: coral reefs that die, droughts that get worse, many millions of people being challenged on their livelihoods. Climate change exacerbates the conflicts we already know today, and this will create a lot of refugee flows. The point is, we can actually slow down this development. The most important gain is the security of knowing that tomorrow will be as safe as yesterday. But that's not the only win. There are many brighter parts of the greener future: cleaner air, cleaner water, more lush nature, healthier food, cars that need less maintenance and which accelerate significantly better, new export adventures, cheaper health care, green jobs. It may sound like a distant, almost utopian future, but it is not. It's a fully achievable vision for a greener Denmark... a fantastic Denmark... if we dare make fundamental changes to our society before we are forced to do so. And, dear friends, that's exactly where we're standing right now. We must make the fundamental changes in Denmark and the world that can ensure my generation and the next generations security and well-being. It has been a hard-working and result-creating year in Danish climate policy. We have adopted a Climate Act with an ambitious climate target that ensures that Denmark takes its share of responsibility for fulfilling the global climate agreement. Climate agreements have been drawn up for energy, industry, waste and cars and a first step in green tax reform. This has also happened in a way that could bring together a broad majority in the Folketing. We have even set an end date for oil and gas production in the Danish part of the North Sea. It is, in short, a new round of climate change policy that can show the world the way for oil-producing countries. On the basis of such normal standards, it is actually extremely impressive. I think that is important to bear in mind. But we are in the midst of an acute crisis: the forests are burning around the world, the ice is melting, and the ecosystems of the planet are under intense pressure. In this light, there is only one response to the government's climate trade plan: more action is needed. After more than a year's work, there is not a clear plan for how we reach the 70%. An important climate plan for agriculture is still missing and the structures of the government's plans for sustainable construction need to be tightened up. At the same time, we must build on the agreements we have already made, both in terms of transport, in terms of the energy system and in terms of industry. In particular, we would ask the government to remove the gloves when it comes to the agricultural negotiations after New Year. There is no doubt that the conversion of agriculture will require that we, as a society, support the industry with research, development and demonstration. But the industry itself will also have to contribute, including financially. A green conversion of Danish agriculture is a future assurance of Danish agriculture. Think if we could create a Danish strength position for plant-based foods. We in this Chamber have set ourselves the most important task for my generation. We have set out to limit climate change, and this requires us not to push the task ahead of us, and here comes a responsible 2025 target into the picture. We also need to put pressure on ourselves to ensure CO2 reductions by 2025, which is why we in the SF believe that we should have a target of at least 50% reduction in 2025. And I was probably somewhat surprised when I saw that the government had put itself in the hammock with an ambition level of 46 per cent. So, dear government, I just have to tell you that we're not setting climate targets because it's easy, but because it's necessary. After all, the way forward towards the 2030 target contains both decisions that can be implemented today, but also technology that needs to be developed. In SF, we are concerned that the balance is right and that CO2 is why we are also very concerned that the government is becoming more keen on putting some probabilities on how and how much is being moved from the development track to the implementation track, i.e. from good visions to real reductions. At the same time we have to do more CO2 We know the means to reach 60%. of greenhouse gas reductions in 2030. That is why it is quite obvious to the SF that we need to agree on the reductions and write them on a white piece of paper as soon as possible, because it will also help to make the road towards the 2030 target more clear because we need to achieve it. So, dear colleagues, we are on our way. We must continue to take action because we are not in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221173219	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221173234	Thank you, President. When I last stood on this platform during our last big climate debate, it was with butterflies in my stomach. I was so proud of the new Climate Law and so happy to have pushed up my ambitions, and most of all I was excited to get to work. For the first time in a very long time, I felt confident on behalf of the climate. Now we are here again at the end of 2020, and today I have to say that I am unfortunately not confident, but rather concerned. True, 2020 was a completely different year than any of us had expected. The pandemic has cost too many people the world over their lives, freedom and livelihoods. No doubt about it, and no doubt that many of us count the days until a vaccine arrives, and we may be able to get some of our old lives back, because there will be a vaccine after all. In the case of the corona crisis, it can be said that there will soon be light at the end of the tunnel. The same cannot be said of the climate crisis. The disaster may not have received the same attention this year because of corona, but it is still there. The forests have also burned this year in the Amazon and other parts of the world, and the Arctic is melting at an unabated rate. You've been researching climate change for over 30 years longer than I've been living without finding miracle cures or quickfix that can magically get our CO2 There won't be any climate vaccine. I think that is really important being said from this platform. Now is the time to act, and it is we who must do it. It's our responsibility. All of us who adopted the 70-percent objective should agree that we are now done with desk exercises and with postponing important decisions to the next elections and to the next generation. We need real climate action now. That's also why I get worried when I read the government's action plan. For it does not set the recommended sub-target for 2025. And I am worried when too much is said in the debate on hockey poles, because in my ears it can just be another word for relocating responsibility. Autumn has been busy and heavy. We have landed a number of agreements, preserved. Most have been progress, but in Enhedslisten's optics it has been too small steps. The Prime Minister promised 10 billion. kr. to the green transition in its opening speech from this platform, but the money has, for a large part, gone to tax rebates to some of the biggest polluters without counter-requiring in a green tax reform. I simply do not think that is green. Furthermore, despite the fact that we have negotiated almost all sectors except agriculture, the discussion on the necessary CO2 is far from the objective. We've found about 7 million. t in CO2 t, we have to find towards 2030. That is why we in the Enhedslist believe that we should increase the level of ambition in all areas, including those that we have discussed once, and that is also what we are talking about in today's text of adoption, together with the alternative, SF and Radicals. And why is that? Because, yes, it's gonna be difficult, it's gonna be hard, and it's gonna be expensive. It is because we are the last generation to prevent the climate disaster. We are the ones who took responsibility after Denmark's first climate elections, and I sincerely hope that in 2021 we can jointly remember what responsibility we were actually given. It is possible to reduce Denmark's climate load sufficiently, comply with international objectives and create a society where we do not emit more CO2 So there is still reason for optimism, for hope and to fight for change. It is possible to make the necessary transition in time, but we must act now, and Denmark in particular should act, because neither the climate pressures nor the prosperity of the world are equally distributed. We are also up against heavy economic interests of people and companies who have made a great deal of money from straining the climate, but who need to get used to earning something less. The answer, then, is not simply to leave it all to green growth and to the free market, which many otherwise preach as the ultimate solution. We must make major changes, but we must not demand equal treatment of all. That would be deeply unfair and would create great popular opposition and perhaps make it impossible to achieve the goal. Therefore, while making the transition, we must ensure that it must be possible and good to live a safe life for ordinary people, both in the city and in the countryside. And the people whose jobs are threatened by the conversion must be helped to many of the new green jobs we have already created together, but the companies that make the most of it and make the most of it must also pay something more to deduce. In other words, in my optics, we need a new green social contract in which we promise each other that we, as a society, must live 100% within the limits of the globe and that we are willing to implement what is needed. In contrast to the corona, there is no climate vaccine and we cannot just pay for the solution. That is why we must act now, and I am very much looking forward to doing so, hopefully, by a large majority in the Danish Parliament in the new year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174004	Thank you. There are no comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174026	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. The next few years are probably the most important in human history. With those words, a comprehensive UN climate report was presented in autumn 2018. The conclusion was clear: it will require an unprecedented level of ambition from world leaders if we are to hope to reduce the global temperature increase to a maximum of 2 degrees, preferably not above 1.5 degrees. And we must, because the world's leaders have undertaken to do so in the Paris Agreement. And most importantly, we owe that to our children, our grandchildren and future generations. Conservatives take the generation contract seriously. The generation contract is the bond of responsibility that runs from our ancestors to us today and on to our children and grandchildren. It is a social contract, a promise to our children that obliges us to leave a planet in good condition. Denmark has a number of national objectives and international commitments in climate and energy, and Conservatives have also endorsed them. Conservatives have never been afraid to make use of national climate targets. Thus, as the only bourgeois party, we were also included in the Climate Act in 2014, which introduced a national target of 40-percent reduction of CO2 The national targets help to ensure that we do not postpone necessary decisions and at the same time ensure that we are in the green lead. This position is of great importance for green Danish exports and the thousands of green Danish jobs. Conservatives attach the utmost importance to achieving our international objectives, because that is the only way we can demand the same of other countries. This is of great importance, as a green transition in Denmark does not save the climate alone. Here we are totally dependent on international action and, in particular, on the commitment of the large countries. Denmark has been one of the world's leading players in the green transition for decades. In particular, we have been skilled in transforming our energy system from fossil fuels into green energy in the form of, among other things. wind energy and solar cells. However, the pace of the green transition in Denmark must more than double if we are to achieve our goal of becoming a net zero emitter of CO2 This task we have and must take on politically. We need to set targets. That is a good starting point, but we also need to move on. We have to act. And we believe that it can be done without stopping development, slowing down growth and making it more expensive to be a Dane. Finally, finally, we got off to work here in 2020. But my goodness, it's hard to go from talk to action. We have a lot to enjoy, yes, yes, and we have made a number of agreements. However, most people have just not made a major contribution to achieving the 70-percent target by 2030. And, to me, this is not just due to the parties' different approach to bl. a. funding and the way we have to do things, but indeed the government's foot-timing approach was mentioned earlier, and I would like to repeat that. No CO2 agriculture. I am not really in any doubt about the intentions of most parties, nor am I in any doubt about the intentions of the climate minister, but apparently something is constantly getting in the way of this government. And now here we are even more pressured than ever to find quick and cost-effective solutions. Yesterday, the government announced that in 2025 the target will be 46-50 percent. And this despite the fact that the Climate Council continues to recommend 50-54 per cent, so it's a little far from that 46 per cent. to the 54 per cent. That is disappointing, and yes, it is also unacceptable. The government certainly makes it easy for all parties to be other than the Alternative, which for me is the ones that have been the most green all the way through; the rest of you must fight for second place to be more green and more ambitious. You might also say: Peace be with it. Well, it's not crucial for Conservatives whether we're the greenest. After all, we are more interested in making some decent solutions. What opportunities do we have to speed up? What role can business and consumers play? What technologies do we need to speed up? And then let's get started on the CO2 What did the government really do? Because an agreement probably came out of it, but it was not a green tax reform that we were all waiting for. How are we ever going to achieve the 70-percent target if we are already behind and obviously do not intend to run faster? From here we are ready for a sprint, and we want to map out the opportunities we have to land an agreement on a 2025 objective that is higher than the government has played out with. How high we can get up must depend on the analyses we are currently holding in the negotiations. Quite frankly, whether we come up with the Climate Council's recommendations is questionable, especially because the Climate Council itself believes that it is really difficult to reach 50 per cent. The fact that, at the same time, the Climate Council maintains their recommendation is, frankly, also a little strange. We have to deal with that too, so that this does not become unrealistic. We simply need to strike a balance between realism and ambition, and this time we need to see the means before we get to the goal. Of course, it has proved untenable, if you say so, with fixed targets based on loose sketches. In the forthcoming negotiations, we want more than sketches and positiveness. It's nice, but it's no good to throw out some numbers. There's got to be impact calculations, and knowledge remains the way over this area. We all have a bottom-up task here in the Danish Parliament, and the Conservatives are ready and are all in the airplane grills more than flying hideouts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174628	Thank you. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174632	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul for a very good speech. The government has simply presented a strategy for sustainable construction without a single CO2 There is simply no one, and we find that in SF a little bit interesting when we work with CO2 So I just want to know if the Conservative People's Party agrees that the strategy for sustainable construction needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174657	It can almost be said that it is provocative to make a proposal where there is no CO2 It pours in with material and it probably also does for all of you other climate rapporteurs with good ideas. So there is a lot to be done, especially in the construction sector, and they want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174724	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174725	Mona Juul, as far as I know, is also the business rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, which is why I would like to ask Mona Juul whether it is also her opinion that there are indeed also jobs and new companies in transforming the construction industry into more sustainable. I mean, is there any business potential here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174742	Thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174743	I love leading questions. There is no doubt about that at all, and the industry itself has been announcing it, and they have been doing so for years. They are ready, and they themselves have criticised the government's proposals, and I can actually understand that, because we know that there are plenty of jobs in green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174801	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174804	I would like to thank Mrs Juul for her speech, which, unfortunately, I find a little negative, in that we have made agreements in the past year, which shows one third of the way towards the 2030 target. So the picture that it is so foot-timing that we haven't found any reductions, etc., I find it hard to recognize. However, I would like to ask Mrs Mona Juul more about the Conservatives' sub-target for 2025, and whether it is not something that Conservatives have had some rather more concrete thoughts about than what Mrs Mona Juul mentioned in her speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174846	In other words, first of all, it is foot-timing that six months ago the government decided to enter into an agreement with the parties here that now we must have a green tax reform when you come six months later with something that does not remind us of what any of us had imagined. It cannot be viewed in any other way than foot-to-foot. In terms of objectives, the Conservative People's Party has leaned very much on the recommendations of the Climate Council. But I also have to say that I am a tiny bit of a shithole that the Climate Council is now saying that it will be very difficult to reach the 50 per cent. Well, then it must be really hard to reach the 54 percent, and that of course makes an impression. After all, it is of no use that we politicians should only lean on interest groups and recommendations. Now we need to know what is possible to achieve a higher target in 2025 than the 46-50 percent that has been played out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174938	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221174939	Then my next question to Mrs Mona Juul must be what kind of instruments Conservatives would like to put in place to achieve this level of a 2025 target, which I understand must be at an appropriate level and be higher than that of the government. What are the concrete measures and what CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175006	Well, it would be great if you could just unfold the spreadsheet, but in fact we would like the ministry to make the spreadsheet for us. After all, we would like to know what elements we have the opportunity to move on quickly, what it gives of effect and what the cost is of it. This is among other things. some of the questions I have already asked the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply and which we have also discussed in the negotiations. Because it is not crucial whether it is the construction or something else that means that we now have to give a different priority. The most important thing is that it can be fast and that it can be cost-effective, and then it really doesn't matter what we start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175042	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175047	Who would like to thank the rapporteur for a very fine speech and also sign for the good, objective approach of looking at what the potentials are and getting it deployed in some answers from the ministries and then coming up with something that the rapporteur considers plausible to achieve. In the Radical Left we want at least 50%. and work in this range like the Climate Council, that is 50-54 per cent, and we actually perceive that the Climate Council has always said that 50 per cent. or over is difficult. That is the point when we say that the goal is so hard to achieve, and we will do it because we want to be a pioneer, so it is of course difficult. And the Climate Council has also found new potentials since they last came up with their report. So I certainly hope that Conservatives higher than the government's is also significantly higher, but we will see that. I have a question for the specific instruments: does the rapporteur think that this CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175151	Well, we don't have time for that. That's the problem. The problem is that we're not gonna get those CO2 that's the problem. Several of the rapporteurs have mentioned this as to whether or not we can speed it up. And I very much hope that we can do that in relation to the agreement that has been made, so that we can actually get something by 2025 if it is cost-effective. That's what's the whole point all the time, and that's also why it's silly if you're gonna stand and slap some things out and say: Oh, it's better than this. We're not. This has to be based on knowledge and professionalism, because otherwise we'll be back in 1 year, in 2 years, in 3 years, looking at each other and having made no proper appointments, and it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175230	Yes, because that is exactly what the Climate Council is saying is an important tool for us to get a long way, that is to say there will be these early clarifications of this CO2 and I note there that in the Conservative and Liberal proposals for adoption there is a desire to clarify a great deal of this already in the debate next year. So I sense that the answer is that we need to speed it up and that there is also a desire from Conservatives to press for us to make a bigger decision than the government immediately expresses, as early as next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175310-2	Well there is no doubt that what we have done now is that we have left the entire Danish business community on the platform. They have no idea what the pointers are. They have a presumption, they have an expectation, but they do not have any pointers for how fast it is going to go, what levels become, what it is we should. And that's the worst thing we can do... that you don't know what to point for and how to run your business. That is why this work will be central. There are probably some who sit and welcome the fact that the government was not faster so they did not get a tax right now, but it is actually worse to be unsolved and therefore it is very urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175346	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175357	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. The Climate Act with its goal of a total 70-percent reduction of CO2 The Government, the support parties and the Left and Conservatives believe that Denmark should take leadership for the green transition, both in the EU and globally. I think I speak on behalf of many Danes when I say that the government's obsession with Denmark having a green climate leader's shirt seems completely out of proportion. This mantra with Denmark being a green pioneer country and wearing the green driver's shirt leads to a one-eyed focus on getting the figures for CO2 This explanation is no exception. Nothing is too small when it comes to adjusting the figures in the Danish climate accounting. Contrary to what the government wants the Danes to believe, more green taxes will not make any difference to the climate. The total Danish CO2 It should not be the case that politicians without scruples can make the Danes poorer without being able to justify it with evidence that it will make a difference in a larger European or global perspective. And that is why New Citizens voted against the Climate Act at the time, because it gave the climate parties a legal document that they can use to justify all possible and impossible climate action and ignore the concrete effect. The only effect of the Climate Act will be to make Denmark poorer and abroad richer. Climate law is a mistake. It does not make sense for Denmark to go so far ahead of all other countries, even without it having any impact on global emissions. The only way to achieve global reductions in CO2 We never get poor countries to lower their growth in order to reduce CO2 Denmark's best contribution will therefore be to continue working with the development of technology, which we are skilled at, and in order to do so we must ensure Denmark's growth and prosperity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175604	Thank you. There are no comments. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221175639	In the alternative, we believe that we need to raise our ambitions again on behalf of the climate. We did it in 2019 when we made one of the most ambitious climate laws in the world, namely to reduce Denmark's CO2 by 2030. But we believe that everything has come to a halt after that. We only plan to save 7.2 of the approx. 20 million t CO 2 The government has introduced a hockey stick concept. As I read it, it means that we have to save the most in the end up to 2030. In the alternative, we want to turn the hockey stick around, so it is here at the beginning that we have to plan the big savings while we have a whole lot of well-known instruments such as wind turbines, solar power, electric cars etc. This requires us to raise our ambitions again, both in relation to the agreements that have been reached and those that are on the way. For example: Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and Social Democrats have made a car agreement which saves only 2.1 million. t CO2 The agreement means that 3.1 million cars will be on the road by 2030. That's 600,000 more than there are today, and only 775,000 of the cars are green. We hope that the government and the support parties will reopen that agreement and invite the alternative to help negotiate down the number of cars. It's good enough with electric cars, and it's okay. with hybrid cars, if you remember to charge them, which not everyone does, but the total number of cars must be down. In the alternative, we would like 2.5 million cars to be the ceiling by 2030 and 1 million of them to run on electricity. We believe that this can be achieved, for example. to extend the sharing car arrangements, to increase road tolls or road pricing, by more public transport, possibly by an increase in the price of petrol. There we think it is too little that only 3 million have been set aside. kr. to market share car schemes. We have to learn to ride together instead of sitting around in each of our cars at least as soon as we're out of the corona crisis. The next area where I think we should be more ambitious is the tax area. We need to have a uniform CO2 government, the Left, Radicals, SF and Conservatives say that they cannot find out, that it cannot be done technically yet, but then you could start somewhere, for example. Parliament's opinion on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the It's easy to find out. And, of course, social compensation is important, so that the lowest income gets money back from the surplus that comes up with taxes. After all, it is not they who have the main responsibility for CO2 but no matter what, we must have a tax agreement with a uniform CO2 per person. But here we must also ensure that it is not the lowest incomes that pay the bill, so in the alternative we propose to pay back the revenue to the population in a way that gives everyone equal back, but of course those who have emitted the most CO2 One thing that is mentioned in the report, which we are talking about today, is the stoppage of drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea. I do not see that this has anything to do with the 2030 objective. So that's a little like saying: I'm gonna lose 5 kg by 2030 by quit eating candy in 2050. In fact, we think it is rather decorative green to celebrate the cancellation of the eighth round of invitations to tender in the North Sea when virtually all the applicants had withdrawn. That is a bit like saying that we stopped selling oil and gas because nobody wants to buy it. In fact, it has been several years since the oil companies began to doubt the long-term commercial business in the North Sea. After that, the parties behind the North Sea Agreement were pressured to provide tax rebates for investments in the North Sea in 2017. The parties have thus ensured stable framework agreements for the oil industry over the next 30 years. In the alternative, we believe that drilling for oil and gas without large discounts would have ebbed out in 15-20 years. It therefore sounds rather hollow when we celebrate an agreement that extends the oil and gas drilling in the North Sea for the next 30 years. Here we agree with Enhedslisten that we have to calculate what it costs to stop drilling already in 2030, 2035, 2040. These were examples of some of the agreements that the alternative would like to see opened up again, so that we can put a little more green ambitions into them. But we also have to say that when we have planned to save relatively little of the necessary CO2 2 When the Minister himself talks about what should make Greenpeace cheer, their goal is to halve the production of pigs and beef by 2030 • they actually believe that this is a prerequisite for achieving the reduction target • and if the Minister wants to continue partying with Greenpeace, I would like to mention that they are proposing a CO2 by 2025 in accordance with climate science. This is also the starting point for the alternative in relation to the negotiations we are currently engaged in, about what the milestone for CO2 We point to 55% CO2 It is ambitious, yes, but we need to step up and raise the level of ambition if we want to be the most ambitious in the world on climate, and fortunately we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221180332	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221180354	Now I am not going to fall into the same heterosexual, normative gender stereotypes as the previous President and say so, but it is notable that two men have forgotten to spit on up here, is it not? Thank you for an excellent debate. Thanks to Tommy Ahlers for holding not only a red and a blue, but also a green speech • the green speech got well enough only in the last minute, but still. Thanks to Morten Messerschmidt for reminding us of the potential of power-to-x. Thanks to Ruben Kidde for also reminding us what climate science really says and that it is actually its results that are the reason why we have these discussions at all. Thanks to Signe Munk for raising your eyes a little over the technique and all the gestures and talking about visions. Thanks to Mai Villadsen for reminding us that there is no quick fix. Thank you to Mona Juul for talking about the generational contract. Thanks to Torsten Gejl for as always delivering a passionate speech and probably Parliament's most far-reaching proposal. I would like to thank the new citizens, and that is actually quite sincere because although we disagree on virtually everything, as you can see, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen always ask the questions where you get a little challenged. One of the questions I would like to start with here is: why actually go through all this trouble? Why actually spend so many billions of dollars on reducing greenhouse gases in this small country? We only stand for 0.1%. of the world's CO2 It's not that you can't understand the thinking, but when we choose to do it, it's not because we think it's • I don't think it's at least that the less CO2 it might make a small difference, but it doesn't make a big difference. What makes the big difference is that we are a pioneering country. It is that we are the country that shows other countries that this is actually possible. It is that we can inspire others and that we do so in a way that shows that we can easily have very ambitious climate objectives, while creating jobs, while at the same time having a high quality of life, while at the same time having equality. And in that we also push ourselves because we set goals so high that we even don't know how to achieve them, even the Climate Council, which is very imaginative and very ambitious, says that they can't really show how to achieve the between 60 and 70%. We are forcing ourselves to develop new solutions. The new solutions can be used in the rest of the world, and that is what enables us to make a real difference. Does that sound a little far-lifting to you like a beautiful vision that's hard to realize? Yes, of course it is. It is harder to realize than to talk about, but when I still have faith that it is going to happen, it is because it can be done. It is because we have shown that it can be done. Look at the Danish wind turbine adventure. In 1991, when we made the world's first offshore wind farm, there were not many economists who said that it was an excellent idea that it was 100 per cent. was the most cost-effective way to generate electricity in the future. Of course, they did not say that, because it was a much more expensive solution and a lot of technology really needed to be developed so that it could be done. Today, after so many decades, we have come to where sea wind is competitive enough to be able to outperform coal and nuclear power. It was asked by a little bit I was about to say emish, but it wouldn't be nicely ambitious journalist in the hallway a few weeks ago: what do you think Svend Auken would have said about the hockey stick? I don't think he'd have used that expression if he was talking about sports, it was only about tennis, but he would have said: Of course. What was his vision was that we should be self-sufficient in green energy, and we will be in 2027 if everything goes well. The years when he was a minister increased CO2 that's also why it doesn't really matter how we do these things. Because if we want to be a pioneer country, it doesn't matter that we're just saying that here's an economy book where you can look up on page 1: Do things you want to get rid of, more expensive, and do things you want to have cheaper. Yeah, it's part of the tools, but it's not the only ones. The adventure of windmills has not come because of taxes; it has come because of support, regulation and political will. Similarly, you cannot just say: Well we have a target by 2030, so let's just take a ruler and see how much you have to reduce by every year. No, this is not necessarily the wisest way to do it. In fact, it can force us to make decisions that are rather stupid if we are to reduce exactly as much next year as we are going to the following year and as we are going to the following year, etc. There will be some things that are like a hockey stick. There will be things we decide now that will only give something close to 2030, for example. Energy islands. Those are the most expensive, the most important decisions we make, but they will only give anything in perhaps ten years' time, and that is even quite optimistic. That does not mean that we should not act now. Of course, we have to act now; we have to do all the things that we can do now, because there is the Climate Council and others right: if we do not do them now and quickly, then we will not. But that means that we have to look into each other and say: we have given ourselves such a difficult task, so ambitious a task that if we do not also put money off now for research, for development there is no question of just sitting back and waiting for market forces and waiting for technology to develop itself; on the contrary, there are targeted technologies we have chosen, technologies that exist, technologies that are not science fiction, but which we know and which need to be scaled up, made cheaper, made better. If we do not do that, I do not believe that we will achieve the goal, and at least we will not achieve the goal in a way that is rational. Let me just remind you, when we talk about this 2025 target, that although the Climate Council says 50-54 per cent, when they made their report in March, they said that if we are to reach 54 per cent, we have to cut by 3 million. t CO 2 And then it is stated: "Therefore, it is the Climate Council's assessment that, in order to achieve a reduction of the additional 3 million. Tonnes of CO2 e should follow at least one of the following three changes: industrial decline Agricultural production decline Car driving limitation The three conversion elements mentioned are practically feasible if sufficiently stringent measures are taken, but the socio-economic costs are probably quite high in the light of the fact that 3 million tonnes of CO2 e. tonnes of CO2 e is a quite significant reduction requirement. All in all, it advocates a more lenient 2025 target than 54 per cent. Since then, baseline has changed. They expected some older figures; with the new figures it turns out that the 50% that their instruments can provide is in fact 48%. That is to say, it is a considerably more than 3 million. a. From today to 54 per cent. In 2025 we had to reduce by 7 million. a. That is, for example, the case. a halving of road transport in Denmark. So it is just to say that, of course, we must be ambitious, that of course we must push each other, including in the short term, but if we support 54 per cent. as a reduction target and at the same time as saying that you listen to the Climate Council, you also have to point out whether it is a reduction in production in industry, agriculture or a significant reduction in car driving that you want by 2025. And if you do, I'd say we're probably not that much of a pioneering country. I do not think that Europe will then say: it is good that Denmark has chosen to reduce so much and so much by 2030, even though this has led to their exports being plummeted and production has moved to another European country. Moreover, it would be good for the climate, since we have a fairly good and sensible way of producing in Denmark, which in most cases can compete well, also on our footprints per. Produced unit? That has been said educationally and, of course, modestly, because in most cases we are the better. No, I don't think so. We would like to discuss and we would also like to move. We have set out the objective we believe to be attaining. The lower buckle here can be difficult enough. We can point the way there, and we also believe that when you promise something, you should also be able to deliver it. And we also know that these baseline calculations can change from year to year. That is to say, it may well be when we see the new figures next year that it is actually a whole million tonnes more that we need to reduce by, in order to achieve a target by 2050. And there we have to say as a government: well, we have to be sure that we can achieve it, and that is why we have declared what we have withdrawn. I look forward, of course, to hearing what the other side of the House thinks. It's fair enough you've reported 50-54 percent. That is part of the negotiations. Left now says they think our bid is a little low. It is, of course, a good thing that we should be actively involved in the discussion. I want to read a quote from November last year about the 2025 target: If we get the five-year milestones out, we have removed the worst thistles. We are afraid that it will lead to short-term solutions that make the green conversion disproportionately expensive.....It might have been I who said it, but it was actually Thomas Danielsen, namely the Left negotiator in relation to the Climate Act. His main effort at the negotiating table was to get the 2025 target out. He fought side by side with me, so I don't want to blame him. But we lost, and now we have a 2025 target, and I also recognise that the pressure that you would like to put on the 2025 target has come, so that is perhaps good enough; that is perhaps one of the defeats that we had. This, however, must not lead to the loss of one's eagerness to embrace one's own defeat, sir. Tommy Ahlers, forget what's actually in the report and forget what kind of decisions you're actually making. That is why we are looking forward to the coming of a commandment. We will answer all the questions that may be asked to qualify the bid that may come from the bourgeois parties, but we are obviously looking forward to it coming. Now the government has long been criticized for being hesitant and that it has not gone fast enough. Now we are putting forward our policy and we would also like to hear what the reaction is to that policy. I hope so, and it may come here now when you have the opportunity to ask questions. Finally, I would just like to express my sincere thanks for the many words of praise that have been given, after all, for the cooperation that we have had. I can only sign for them and send the other way. Sometimes I wish people out there could be in the negotiating room sometimes too, because we often fight very much and very loudly in the newspapers and in print it doesn't always look as nice as it is, but the truth is that we actually have a very good and respectful collaboration with each other, and I would like to thank each of you for that. I mean, that's really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181545	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and first it is from Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181551	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Minister for your cooperation. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the way to the 70%. How am I supposed to start? Well, even though I'm a girl from around Herning, who is a proud hockey town, I'm not as excited about the hockey staff as it is, if you feel if you push all the decisions into the future. Therefore, I would really like to hear how much of the 70%. and how much of the 20 million. t CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181635	But it is also, if we are to be completely honest, because some have deliberately chosen to misunderstand what we mean by hockey stick. I just explained it. Well, it's a hockey stick when we make decisions today to make two huge energy islands. That's it. It's a huge decision now, but it's only going to give reductions at the earliest by 2030 • perhaps a little sooner. Power-to-x we must develop; we all agree on that. We're not there yet, but we need to spend the money on it now. That is why we are making the decision now, but it will only result in reductions later. The same applies to pyrolysis, and to a great many of the things that are supposed to help us reach from 60 to 70 per cent. That's why it's so ambitious. It is because we have set ourselves an objective that is more ambitious than we know exactly how to achieve. It is clear that we have gone much further now than we were last year, compared to being able to say how. We have, for example. identified what kind of technologies it is, and that's also why it's not true when someone says "not the questioner," but somebody says we'll just sit back and wait for the technology to evolve, and then we'll see what comes and helps us. It's not that. After all, we have pinpointed what kind of technologies we want to invest in. We have even given a measure of the potential. The way things are going to fall out depends on what is agreed here in the room.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181753	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181753-2	Well, I fully acknowledge, and I think everyone here in the Chamber recognises, that we are taking decisions now, which are only going to sign out much later, but I need to be confident that we will reach the 70-percent target, that the Minister will answer me the question of how much of the 70 per cent is to be planned in this parliamentary term. So far, we're about a third of the way. That's a long way from target. How far will the government plan? How far do we have to go with the decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181823	I suppose you could turn it around and say that this is a reverse hockey stick on decisions. In other words, if we were to follow the linear thinking for which the author's party and others have made themselves spokespersons, there would have to be an equal reduction every year until we reach 2030. It is clear, of course, that this would also mean something, because some decisions which could then give rise to the reductions would have to be taken now. But we've kind of turned it around. We have, of course, said that we have to take a great many decisions now, even if we know that we are being criticised for not giving anything next year or next year again, but if we do not take those decisions now, we cannot achieve it in the long term. How exactly it divides between parliamentary terms or from year to year, no one can respond to • nobody, including the Climate Council, even if their recommendations were followed to the letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181905	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221181908	The Minister was pleased to have suffered a defeat at the 2025 target, because I and the Minister remember the discussions we had on the cleverness of the 2025 target that the SF held on to, but we had to have one, and the Minister did not agree entirely. In the SF, I would just like to say, we will gladly ensure that the government suffers defeat in the climate area when you get CO2 We have done that in other climate agreements too. I'm kidding. The Minister also asked the parties, who are at the goal of the Climate Council's recommendation to the 2025 target, whether they are ready to shut down companies and halve transport so that I cannot get from Fur to the Folketing. I think the Minister should also understand that when we recommend a range from 50 to 54 per cent, it is because it is a span, and when it is important for SF that the bottom is at least 50 per cent, it is because that is what we need to get above. But does the Minister not agree with me that it has also emerged in this year that we sometimes find CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182022	Yeah, it could be. Our point, then, is that on the very short track, as the 2025 target is, it takes a few years for instruments like this. Taking out agricultural land, as we all agree, is one of the fast-acting instruments. Even it takes a few years, then, from one decision to the next, until it actually happens. So the thing about putting too much pressure on us now can force us to take some of those decisions, which I think we also agree we should not, and which are just about closing down production. After all, the benefit of the 2025 target is that we are forced to make decisions in the short term too and constantly be creative and constantly find out what we can do there. That's the advantage. But the disadvantage is, of course, if we are going to make some decisions, because we have tied ourselves too high in the short run, that we then make decisions which in reality make it much, much more expensive, much, much more difficult and perhaps even impossible to achieve the goal we have in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182127	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182128	Just to repeat it, the idea of a span is precisely that this is the target area we should be in, in 2025 if you're going to stay in the terms of the sport and that's what we recommend the government to do. That's what the Climate Council recommends. That is why it is also important for us to say that the lower level of such a spread is important, and that is why we say at least 50% of greenhouse gas reduction. So that is what is interesting to discuss, and not necessarily, I think, a 54 per cent upper span.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182204	That's fair enough to mean it. When it ended up being a cliff, it was also after guidance from the Climate Council, for they just said that it is quite difficult to know exactly where to hit on such a short track. But I agree that we need to know that we can make it. And there I just have to say about the means that lie on the short track • even if you were willing to use those who are also very expensive, who would have very expensive shadow prices, because these are things that would have come anyway • that it is not necessarily certain that they will bring us up to 50%. The baseline problem I was talking about just now makes it really 48%. Then the Climate Council says that in the meantime they have also come up with a number of other things, and that is fine, but we also have to look into them, but that requires one of them. in the Climate Council's calculations, to reopen the waste agreement we have just made and set higher targets in it. It will also require the conversion of Nordjyllandsværk, and we will have to negotiate this with the Danish Parliament's parties, but it can, for example, do so. get derived effects on the possibility of getting geothermal, which otherwise also all agree is a good idea. So there are many outstanding issues here. It is certainly not the case that we can say with 100 per cent certainty that it would be possible to do so just if we decide to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182313	The next brief remark is to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182315	Thank you. I heard it as if the Minister invited me to comment on it. First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and thank you for the good debate here. Like the Minister, I would also like people to be able to see into the negotiating room, because I actually think we have some good negotiations and there is openness all around. So thank you for that, too, to the government. Although we have not invented a tool, and although we did not even like the tool, we are not too good to use it in a situation where we think there is a danger that too many decisions will be postponed. That's the situation we're in, and that's why we're actively going in and using this tool. And I look forward to having a dialogue on that. I have a specific question which is rather detailed, but I think we can deal with that here too, now that there are more in the Chamber, and that is: does the Minister have an idea of how to make it clear in future, when we have some agreements or proposals or something we are doing here, which we quite specifically know does not lead to the CO2 So, does the Minister have an idea of how we can make it clearer so that we do not go around saying that we now have something that reduces? For example: there is the car agreement of 2.1 million. t, but in reality it only benefits the climate by 1.8 million. t, because there is a cross-border trading effect of 300,000 tonnes when you just think on the other side of the border. Does the government have any considerations and does the Minister have any thoughts on how we can make this clearer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182436	Let me first sign off on the fact that you've got the 2025 target, just like I do. After all, there are also advantages in pushing ourselves to act in the short term. I would also like to see a specific target of what you yourself wanted, if you like. On the specific question, I would like to say that I think we actually have the data on that. If sir... Tommy Ahlers doesn't feel well enough illuminated in relation to it, we take it on us and will make sure to communicate it better. But the concrete example, as Mr. Tommy Ahlers mentions there is one that has been highlighted in the negotiations. And sometimes it goes one way, and sometimes it goes the other way. Well, that's the way it is compared to these ways of calculating. What I think we need to have as a basic principle is that we use the inventory methods that the United Nations and the European Union also use, because if we start to have two accounts, one for what we think we are reducing ourselves, and one for what really counts with the European Union, then it can be quite difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182537	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182540	Thank you, Minister. I am aware of the information and it actually came out because we asked about it. But when the government is celebrating an agreement that pays 2.1 million. T, shouldn't you be clearer than to say that 320,000 tonnes of this is only coming because you're now thinking on the other side of the border? In other words, it does not benefit the climate; it is the 1.8 million. T, that does it. So when it's so marked a difference, i.e. 15%. of an agreement that does not really lead to climate reductions, but simply moves across the border, should we not try to make it clearer? We agree on the method of calculation and the way it has been done. So that's not what we're anchoring. We also agree on the displacement requirement and also think it is a good tool that we have now. But the way to communicate it, we would like to be clearer when it is so marked a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182623-2	I just don't know what to say about that. I think we have communicated quite clearly, the answer to all questions completely cellar cold once they have been asked, and provided all information. I do not remember how many hundred questions it was that were asked. We'll do even better if we can. What the government's press releases and other statements say, I think, we will continue to lay our hands on in the future. But I'll take the advice home in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182655	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182658	Thank you. After all, I very much agree with what the Minister says about the fact that being a pioneer country is linked to setting an ambitious target, and that is why I am so concerned about this, that we are setting an ambitious 2025 target. Because, as the debate has shown today, there are potentials to be drawn from. There is a phasing-out of coal in 2025, where we are lagging a little behind internationally, compared to when we have a phasing-out date for it, and there the Climate Council says it is a very cost-effective solution. There is a shadow price of approx. 300 kroner. per Saved ton annually until 2028 by it. They say that it is a cost-effective solution with the carbon stop, and there is a CO2 so the question to the Minister really is whether there are not a lot of things that we can be bound on and be more ambitious with if we set a higher target and that, on the other hand, if it is only 46%. in 2025, so in reality there is a risk that you will not have any more momentum in the years that are now awaiting us towards 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182821-2	I would now like to say that, to put it mildly, I do not believe that there is a constant pressure for momentum in all the climate discussions we have. It is there, and I can thank the questioner and other parties for that, but also the whole of Denmark, including the business community, including those that we actually regulate. That's actually pretty amazing. So I'm not so afraid of the fact that there won't be any pressure all the time. I recognise that it is fine that we now also have a 2025 target to stand up to. I would just like to warn once again that it will then be so high that it will have a counterproductive effect. 'Cause when sir... Ruben Kidde's party, for example. We have proposed 54 per cent, which was their demand until quite recently, so it has to be said that the Climate Council itself says, and that is even before we have created the new baseline, so the requirement is actually greater than that it can only be done if a reduction in production is introduced in industry, in agriculture or in car driving, and that they themselves actually advocate a more lenient target than 54 per cent. So there it is just that I say in all silence that, when we make a binding target for each other, as I suppose we expect it to be, even though it has a different legal value than the 2030 target, we have to be able to live up to it within the principles, so we continue to be a pioneering country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182935	Sir. Ruben Kidde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221182936	Now I heard P1 morning this morning, and there said the Climate Council President that they have found new potentials since their last report, and he certainly would not confirm what the Minister and also the Socialist rapporteur have been very much aware of, i.e. that 54 per cent. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive. So I think the minister needs to have a conversation with the Climate Council about that. Basically, we believe that this is a 50-54 per cent spread, and then we have to go as far as we can within the limits of reasonableness. But I just want to ask the Minister if he, if we only reach 46%. in 2025, so still believe that we can achieve our 2030 target.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183026	Yes, of course I do, and otherwise we would not have proposed it in the way we have. I'm just gonna have to arrest something. Well, I have not heard P1 this morning, but as a government we have to deal with the official documents we receive from the Climate Council, and here they write: that is why the Climate Council's assessment is that in order to achieve a further reduction of 3 million. This figure has since become larger and must follow at least one of the following three changes: a drop in production in industry, a decline in agricultural production, a reduction in car driving. And finally, all in all, it advocates a more lenient 2025 target than 54 per cent. So again: It's just a basement-cold record of what the Climate Council has advised us to do. And that's one of the reasons why we're not so high. Because we do not think that we will be a pioneer country if what we are reducing leads us to move jobs out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183115	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183117	In the alternative, we are also pleased that the Minister and the other parties gave themselves up on the 2025 sub-target issue. I can see here that on 6 December 2019 we were actually leaving the negotiations because we wanted to get it through. It would have been a shame, because it is really, really nice to be involved in this, and I can confirm that when we sit in the negotiating room, the waves can also go high, but there is a good mood and constructive negotiations. With regard to the reduction in production: if it turns out that we cannot achieve this 2030 target without a reduction in production in agriculture or elsewhere, what do we do then, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183155	Well, it's a bottom-up job for us, and it's related to this, as I mentioned earlier, that it's not them 0.1%. of the world's CO2 What's batting is that we show the world that you can do these things, that you can do it in a way that doesn't cost jobs. Take the yellow vests in Paris as the horror example. It was actually in isolation, in terms of climate policy, sensible enough to raise taxes on fuel. It just wasn't so sensible, because it meant so much inequality that people walked the streets and protested. Similarly, in Denmark we should not make decisions that mean that people lose their jobs and that we lose support for the green transition. I do not think that is necessary either, because I believe that we can do this by other means; we have shown this before. Could that then mean perhaps producing new products in agriculture? Can this mean that in isolation you have to make fewer pigs, but more of something else? Can that mean all sorts of changes? Yeah, I guess so. It probably will, but on the bottom line there should be, not just as many jobs, but more jobs, in the different sectors in Denmark, when we reach 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183255	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for another remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183259	Thank you. I think we're all aware that this is even harder than we thought. We may also have the most ambitious climate legislation in the world, and these are tough negotiations, and that is not easy. I think it is just as quiet that there are some places, for example. in meat production in agriculture, where it becomes problematic to maintain such a high level of meat production, almost regardless of what we do if we want to achieve our 2030 target. Could one imagine saying: okay, if there is a decline in agricultural production, it might be offset by the rise in production in other areas, so that there does not have to be completely the same productivity in all sectors in order to achieve our objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183345	I do not think there is a decade in Danish history where there are no jobs that have moved from one industry to another, and that will probably happen in the future too, but I have to say that it is no ambition for us that there should be fewer jobs in the food sector, and I do not think that will happen either. Actually, I think there's gonna be more. I believe that we will also be the best at making plant protein. I believe that we will be the best at producing production techniques, for example. This is based on pyrolysis, which makes our CO2 actually look at things quite brightly, but it is clear that this is one of the sectors in which we need to get to grips, and that is one of the things we are going to do here first in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183427	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until tomorrow, Tuesday 22 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183445	I would like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will also be postponed until tomorrow, Tuesday 22 December 2020. First of all, to justify the question, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Uffe Elbæk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183520	Thank you. I would like to give a brief explanation of why we would like to see this debate. And when I say we, it is true that it is Conservative, SF, Enhedslisten and Free Greens who are behind the initiative. But it actually started as a conversation between me and Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. For we are both members of an international parliamentary network working on the issue of China. And in the meetings we have had in the IPAC, we have realised how much we are discussing China around the parliaments, not only in Denmark, but also around Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Everywhere this discussion is so lively and serious and serious. And everyone is discussing what the future cooperation relations between each country and China should be and, of course, on the basis of the serious situation both within China, but also in relation to the conflict in Hong Kong and the way China is acting on the world stage at all. That is why Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll and I agreed that this debate should also be held here in the Folketing across the parties and between the parties and the government. And that is why we are very much looking forward to the Minister of Foreign Affairs telling us what his and thus the government's considerations are, both in relation to the specific situation with China and Hong Kong and what is happening right now, but not least in the future, in the light of the fact that we are about to have to re-evaluate or re-formulate or sharpen the situation, or whatever the hell we are going to call it our strategic partnership with China, as we are going to do in the new year. I think in every way that the discussion and timing for it are really, really good, and I look forward to hearing what the Foreign Minister has to say. Most of all, however, I would like, or perhaps not at all, to hear what my political colleagues in the individual parties think, because this is such an absolutely crucial and important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183735	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. I would like to give the floor to the Foreign Minister to reply to the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221183744	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk, sir. Karsten Hønge, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, who has put the question, F 19. Questions are being asked about the situation in Hong Kong and the general human rights situation in China. Then we are asked what Denmark and the European Union are doing to support the democracy movement in Hong Kong. And thank you to all the instigators of this debate. I am pleased that you are helping to keep focus on the situation in Hong Kong and the human rights situation in China. I will begin by explaining the situation in Hong Kong. In the summer of 2019 more than a million Hong Kong citizens went on the streets. They did so in protest of the proposal for a new extradition law. The streets of Hong Kong were completely filled. The peaceful and popular democratic manifestation made a great impression on me, as I believe it did on many others, and it was clear that a very large proportion of the people of Hong Kong wanted to maintain their freedoms. The demonstrations clearly indicated that the people would go a long way to uphold Hong Kong's local constitution and the 1997 international agreement between China and Britain. Since July last year, developments in Hong Kong have gone in the wrong direction. Despite the decision to withdraw the extradition law, the spirit had already changed out of the bottle and Hong Kong. Violent clashes between demonstrators and police escalated and became a new everyday life on the streets. Hong Kong experienced occupation and vandalisation of the local parliament, universities and international airport. We saw violent police brutality and the introduction of emergency law and martial law. Many were arrested, and the fronts were drawn ever sharper. During 2019, I publicly called on all parties to exercise restraint and engage in a peaceful dialogue. I called for respect for the freedoms in force in Hong Kong and strongly opposed the use of violence on both sides. I also raised the issue in the European Union, which came up with ongoing and persistent criticism. At the same time, we raised our concerns several times through our diplomatic channels with China. The global coronapandemic partially put an end to the demonstrations. While the people were no longer allowed to walk on the streets, Beijing and subsequently the local government in Hong Kong adopted an all-encompassing national security law, without the usual involvement and consultation process. The Act included the establishment of Chinese intelligence and security authorities in Hong Kong. At the same time, it was clear that the main responsibility for Hong Kong's national security rests with Beijing. The law is broad and comprehensive and applies both to people and institutions, both inside and outside Hong Kong. Since the adoption of the National Security Act, developments in Hong Kong have been a major blow to freedom of expression and the possibility of political participation in Hong Kong. Hong Kong's legislative assembly today consists entirely of pro-Beijing members. The elections in September were postponed and we have seen arrests and long prison sentences for members of the democracy movement. Despite loud international protests and condemnation from Denmark, the EU, the G7 countries and the UN, the far-reaching law was introduced, and it changed with a foundation from Hong Kong's unique character as part of China, yet with its own freedoms and rights. How, then, has the world reacted? The EU is among other things. after persistent Danish pressure made more than 20 statements. The EU has also travelled Hong Kong to China at all political high-level meetings. Any proper and serious diplomatic analysis must conclude that the EU's markings have been marked, as has Denmark. Together with like-minded countries, Denmark has put on the lead to secure new tools in the EU's common toolbox. In July, we jointly adopted a set of Council conclusions in response to the national security law. It was a new break that all 27 Member States of the European Union agreed on such significant steps and on the basis of nine action lines. The whole exercise was primarily about getting the other EU countries to follow a line as restrictive as Denmark's and like-minded countries. They deal, among other things, with: stop exporting weapons and dual use products to Hong Kong. We already do that in Denmark, but we must bring the whole of the European Union with us. It maintains the open door to Hong Kong, where you can travel to the EU without a visa and with the possibility of applying for asylum on a specific individual basis. We work from the Danish side to keep the door open. This is cooperation in the field of research and education. We've asked the universities. They all have cooperation agreements with Hong Kong. There are 34 student exchange agreements. Hundreds of students travel both ways. And I hope that the universities will continue this close cooperation. There is an end to all new political negotiations with Hong Kong, which we have implemented from the Danish side. We want politically persecuted people not to be extradited through the many extradition agreements. Several EU countries have subsequently terminated their agreements. Denmark does not have an extradition agreement and we are closely monitoring any representations from Hong Kong. And we're pushing for more. Just at the last meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Brussels, I spoke and advocated more EU action on Hong Kong. I can also guarantee that I will continue to work to ensure that Hong Kong is high on the agenda in the European Union. However, we must also be realistic. Denmark is one vote among 27. Not every country wants to go as far as we do. However, Denmark stands strongest when we work closely with our EU partners. It is only through the European Union that we can hope to influence developments in Hong Kong in a more positive direction. In addition, I will continue to work for close involvement of the Folketing. We have discussed Hong Kong several times in the Foreign Policy Name, where I have presented the situation and the challenges and dilemmas that it poses to us. There are parts of the government's specific diplomatic action that I cannot address here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which we are discussing in the Name and which, of course, are also important. I would now like to look at the wider cooperation between Denmark and China, which is about much more than Hong Kong. And I must start by saying that if we want to achieve our ambitious objectives in climate and energy terms, and I will, at least, and the government will, then China is an absolutely indispensable partner. We have just had a debate before this on how important it is that we take action in the climate field to deliver to the next generation. China is the world's largest emitter of CO2 We owe it to future generations to take this development seriously, also with China, and get them on board in relation to this. China now committed to being CO2 This is an ambitious climate target that deserves recognition and where Denmark can also take its small share of the credit for pushing China in the right direction, because through long-term cooperation in climate and energy we have been able to push positively on because we engaged in a strategic partnership. The green transition in China also creates an important platform for Danish commercial solutions. This is among other things. Therefore, that we have a strategic partnership with China where we can work together on selected agendas that are in Danish interest. The strategic partnership has served Denmark well, and it has made a real and positive difference in the world. And let me therefore make it clear that I am also the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the many jobs and those who put a huge commitment to the export industries, not least to the green solutions. China is Denmark's second largest export market outside the EU, and despite the covid-19 Danish exports to China have increased by more than 20%. for the first 9 months of 2020 compared to the last year period. So cooperation with China is important for Denmark's future economic growth, it is important for jobs, it is important for the green transition. It is also important for ordinary Danish families, where mother's and father's work are closely linked not only to the economic, but also to the diplomatic environment. I'm also the Secretary of State for them. At the same time, we cannot and will not close our eyes to the fact that civil and political rights have come under increasing pressure in China, not least in Tibet and Siang Jiang. There are detentions and restrictions on fundamental rights. There is a marked use of censorship on the Internet and social media. The authorities are using the covid-19 pandemic to experiment with new monitoring methods and techniques, and it has become increasingly difficult for foreign journalists to operate in China. We are responding to that too. The government attaches great importance to raising the human rights issue and seeking to improve the human rights situation in China through the channels available to us, many of which are subject to diplomatic confidentiality. We do this both bilaterally and in direct dialogue with China and through EU cooperation. An important tool for this is the EU-China human rights dialogue. Denmark attaches high priority to this dialogue and proactively supports the agenda, as well as our permanent participation as an observer. The government has also actively sought to address the human rights situation in China under the auspices of the United Nations, including: on the UN Human Rights Council. Let me conclude, therefore, by stating that the government is looking very seriously at the human rights situation in China and developments in Hong Kong. Our best opportunity to make a real difference is first and foremost through our active efforts with like-minded countries in the European Union and the United Nations, then through our critical dialogue with China within the framework of bilateral cooperation. Here it is part of our bilateral relationship, as for all other EU countries, that we are pursuing a clear etkina policy. Let me finish. We agree that there are serious challenges. We also agree that there is a need to put action behind the words "and there will be." But there is a difference between how to act as a member of parliament, and I am absolutely convinced that everyone in this Chamber knows how to act in government with the world's second largest economy. In conclusion, I would like to call for a foreign policy challenge not to be inadvertently turned into a domestic political battle and scene, because there is a risk of that. It does not serve the democracy movement in Hong Kong, it makes no real difference in the world and we must not end up there. It is the latter, i.e. making a difference in the world that I care about as Minister of Health, and it is often in these situations a long, cool move. It requires classical diplomacy, and it delivers Denmark on this important, important agenda. Value-based foreign policy is not about being the first on Twitter or the sharpest in the newspaper headline; it is not about symbol policy markings, but it is often about making the difficult choice in the situation, also when it gives criticism, because it is the right way to do it in the long term. It is about increasing Denmark's foreign policy space and using the room for manoeuvre that we have to promote our values and our place in the world. As Foreign Minister, I must protect Denmark and do what is wise for Denmark and the Danes and for Danish values, both on the short and the long track. I and the government will stick to this approach and, in fact, I hope that today's debate will lead to a strengthened consensus on the way forward, which is both value-based, principle-proof, nuanced and wise, and which really makes a difference in relation to the situation we are looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185028	Thank you to the Secretary of State. So one brief comment for the rapporteurs is now available, if you wish, and I can see a few of them doing so. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185039	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for his comments. First of all, I would like to be in the positive, optimistic corner and say that I am delighted when the Foreign Minister starts to show the value-based foreign policy that he has talked about so much about and will support it when it finally unfolds. One of the chances of unfolding is precisely what the Foreign Minister says you cannot achieve in relation to the European Union. After all, I share the concern expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs about how far we can get the remaining EU countries in relation to a sharper direction in relation to China. But there is, of course, a concrete proposal that I have also spoken about on behalf of the Left several times throughout the year, and that is to join forces in a coalition of willing countries. We have seen Australia, we have seen Sweden, we have seen Canada, we are looking forward to a Biden administration in the United States, and there are other countries with which it would be possible to go along with a counterweight to the extremely negative developments that are taking place in China, but which will also be able to push through this agenda on several fronts within the European Union. So this isn't a either-or, it's a boats-and, and it'll be value-based policy in its clearest form.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185146-2	I do not think there was anything in the question that I particularly disagree with. In other words, Denmark is pursuing an active policy of alliance, both in the EU and I think it is very important that we have a strong European Union in relation to the issue mentioned here but also with other countries. Only today, the Canadian Foreign Minister invited us to a meeting of the N5, the five Nordic Foreign Ministers, where Denmark holds the Presidency, and here I also raised the issue of China with Canada, which is an important partner in it. So I just think, if I am going to answer the rapporteur of the Left, that we must not give up. I mean, I see EU cooperation and the role we have in a world where our values are under pressure. European values: values of freedom, rights, human rights, democracy. Our role in bringing the European Union together is important, and we must not just give up there. So we must work for a stronger common position in the European Union, because that is what is going to make a real difference in the world, I am convinced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185242	The next brief remark is to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185246	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for the statement. One of the most important things in relation to China at the moment is that democracies are united and united in the criticism of China. What they're using is that we're not together. Some democracies are almost in China's pocket, and it is a huge problem in terms of making an impression on China, and in terms of how China has developed in recent years. My question is: Australia has been topped with China, and the Chinese have really pressed the Australians. Why has the Danish Government not been more explicit about supporting Australia in this conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185334	I agree that it is important that democracies stick together in the world we are part of. It is also important to use the international forums we have, for example. The United Nations, and the European Union, I mentioned, but also other forums such as the Human Rights Council of the United Nations, to keep countries up with the obligations they have, including China, and Denmark has actually done so. When it comes to Australia, we have a close and good relationship with Australia and their government. I have also looked with Australia, of course, into the challenges that exist. It is important that we do so, but I agree that if we are to promote our values and our interests, we must do so in a broad alliance, and Australia, of course, is included here too. So I can reassure the rapporteur that we have a very good and close cooperation with Australia; we share many of the same values, also in relation to the challenge with China.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185427	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185431	Thank you. When we discussed the issue of the attitude to China in the 1990s in the Danish Parliament, among other things. Given that the then Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen had some doubts as to whether he should meet with Tibet's leader, the Dalai Lama, the understanding was that through cooperation with China, through critical dialogue and partnership, etc. in some way could affect developments in China. I would just like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs' immediate reflections on what has happened in the view of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185521	I believe that the best way to influence developments in China and, incidentally, many other countries in the world is to keep them up with their obligations. There we have, and I'm sure Mr. Søren Søndergaard agrees with important institutions such as the United Nations, and when you have committed to conventions and respect for human rights etc., you must also keep up with it, and the Danish Government is ready to do so. Is there progress on human rights in the world today? No. I saw that Freedom House had calculated how many countries it has gone back on democracy and human rights and freedoms as such. I think it is 80 countries that they have counted it out, just by 2020. That's pretty serious. So it can be said that there is a global trend that we must oppose. That is also why I appeal to us to have strong EU cooperation, and I am not sure that Mr. Søren Søndergaard fully agrees with me there, but I really think that can lift us up, and then we can use the opportunity that we have to turn our economic power into a foreign policy influence in defending some of the rights and obligations that the countries have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185628	The next brief remark is from Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185631	This is a follow-up to the issue raised by the rapporteur from the Left. Today there is an article in Politiken which refers to statements by both Canada and England, I think it was, and Sweden, where their Foreign Ministers clearly say that there is a need for countries to take shape and that one must support one another and one must cooperate. Now, for good reasons, we have focused on EU cooperation, but there are a large number of countries that are now reaching out and saying: should we not do something together now? I just want to know if the Foreign Minister can put a few more words on whether it makes an impression on the Foreign Minister that there are such clear reports coming from countries with which we normally work closely?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185721-2	Yes, we have close and good cooperation with the countries that Mr. Uffe Elbæk mentions. My example to the rapporteur of the Left today was, in fact, that we had a meeting of Nordic Foreign Ministers, where I had invited the Canadian Foreign Minister and where I also raised the issue of China and there was both the Swedish Foreign Minister and the Canadian Foreign Minister. That's how we work. We are working to find out how to deal with some of the major challenges that are in the world today. And there is the situation in Hong Kong and China one of the major challenges. My point is that if we are to make a real difference, we need to use the European Union and use the UN system and work together on it and keep China up with the obligations we have, because I believe that everyone here in the Folketing agrees that it has gone the wrong way when we look at the situation in Hong Kong, and it is important that we stand together to keep China on their commitment to change that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185817	The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185820	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good speech. I would like to ask a few questions about the strategic partnership, which, in fact, will expire in 10 days' time, and where a number of work programmes are now to be renegotiated, I assume, between China and Denmark. After all, it has been a very comprehensive strategic partnership over a number of years, which has been supported by successive governments. And I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs to adjust the strategic partnership in some way and that the green environment and renewable energy, etc. I agree with that. However, can the Foreign Minister clarify a little, both which other areas the government thinks it would be appropriate to continue in, and perhaps also whether there are some areas that need to be drowned down. There has been a lot of mention of, for example: research collaborations which seem to have been used for things that we might not at first think it is a good idea they are being used for. And how far has this been considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221185926	Thank you for that question and comment. One might say that the strategic partnership that we have is, of course, a framework. It is absolutely crucial what you fill in the frame. Indeed, many countries have a strategic partnership with China. France too, Germany too, Great Britain too, the European Union too, but it is interesting what comes into the strategic partnership. And I agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard in that for Denmark for example. In relation to the green and the climate challenge, it is absolutely crucial. I think there are Chinese investments inside every five coal power plants in the world. If we are to phase out coal, which some of us think would be a very good idea, we should have China on board. So we clearly have some offensive interests there. Then I also mentioned in my reply that there are things in which we have called for joint EU action. We have the conclusions of July, for example. That you do not make extradition agreements with Hong Kong and that you terminate them. We think that is the right way to react. So we need to create an action programme that reflects the interests that we also have from Denmark, and that is what the government is focused on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190033	The next brief remark is to Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190036	We are all fully aware that we have different roles to play as government and as members of parliament when it comes to navigating to a great power like China that is clear enough. However, I would like to ask how the Foreign Minister felt about getting praise from the Chinese directly for not having met with Ted Hui. And I agree that it can challenge if the Foreign Minister does certain things, but how will the Foreign Minister react to the situation we are likely to see, namely refugees from Hong Kong coming to Western Europe? In other words, how long does the Foreign Minister think it is possible to keep the balance, and yet undoubtedly to show solidarity with people who are fleeing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190124	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. I don't know what's of Chinese statements compared to my actor. However, with regard to the second question, I would like to say that some of what is important is that one can come to Europe from Hong Kong on visa-free, and that is one of the things that we think is important to maintain. And then it is clear that each country then has its own legislation in relation to asylum, which is being asked about here. We have Danish legislation in relation to asylum and the criteria there. So these are the options. Then there is also • and I think this is very important in the conclusions of July pointed out that you can make exchanges of students. And there I am glad that we have these agreements at Danish universities and university institutions. Well, we have such an arm's length principle, so I cannot go in and say that they should take students from certain countries, but I think it is good that you have a close and good cooperation here, also in relation to Hong Kong. So that's what the situation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190230	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this first round. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, and that is Mr von der Vring. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190252	I was just about to say the women first, but I'm the one who has to start the ball. I would actually like to say that I have been on such a journey of opinion with regard to China. I was truly very impressed by the welfare promise that we saw in China in the 00s and up in the 2010s, i.e. that you have been able to lift millions and millions of Chinese citizens out of poverty and up to a level of living that corresponds to ours. I was genuinely impressed by this and I was absolutely convinced that the long-term prosperity boost would also mean a boost to democracy. I was so horribly wrong there, because what China we have today is a much more authoritarian, not to say dictatorial society, than that of China, which was just 15 years ago. It is a society that makes mass surveillance of its citizens down to the smallest detail and where one's space of freedom depends on whether one lives up to the Communist Party's desire for perfect behaviour. If you do not do so, it will result in restrictions on the space of freedom that you have, both when it comes to housing, work and education, and where you can go. This simply means that we are faced with a situation in which we see a China that suppresses its citizens in general, but which also massively suppresses its religious minorities, whether it be the Uighurs as they are called or others. Well, over a million uighurs are in what they call upbringing camps, labor camps just call it concentration camps. We see how they oppress the indigenous people of Tibet, and everyone in here knows the drama that is unfolding in Hong Kong over these years. Since the adoption of the National Security Act six months ago, Hong Kong has no longer been known as a community governed by the rule of law. We see thousands of young people arrested. Every week we see high-profile democratic people arrested on a very, very questionable basis. We're watching Hongcongers trying to escape. Some succeed because others do not. And every time someone here in Denmark or other Western countries criticises China, the reaction is very, very aggressive on the Chinese side. We are faced with a Chinese dragon, which is in every way very thin skinned, one must say. Just in Denmark we saw the caricature in Jyllands-Posten in the spring, and when we set up the critical Hong Kong sculpture out here in the Palace Square, China tried to press both the Bureau but also the City of Copenhagen to prevent that sculpture coming up. Recently it has been seen that some of us who had a role in Ted Hui's coming to Denmark have also been criticised directly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing. Of course, this raises a question of who should define the rules of the game, of course specifically in China and in Hong Kong, but not least on the international stage. Is it China that has to define the rules of the game and the way we work together, or is it the democratic societies that have to define the rules of the game? It is clear that we in the Free Greens believe that it is democratic societies that must define the rules of the game. I am, of course, pleased that in his speech the Minister for Foreign Affairs told us about all the things that Denmark has done under the auspices that was mentioned. But we just don't think it's enough to do what's being done right now. We also think that Denmark should be more prominent in its character. I myself mentioned just before the signals we have received from Canada, Sweden and England that it matters that we act in concrete terms. What is clearly crucial to us is that human rights are the basic prerequisites for the way we act. That is why I also hope that this may be the start of a broader discussion on what kind of premises we need for our strategic partnership to be forward-looking, so that this is only the beginning. I really hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will invite us to that discussion and that there can be a broad discussion here in Parliament on what we want the cooperation to be. This isn't just about business policy. After all, it is also about research policy, education policy, cultural policy and defence and security, so this is an exciting discussion that we are looking forward to. That's all I'm gonna have to say now. On the other hand, I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Free Greens, and when I read it, you will be able to hear that almost the whole text is identical to the text which will also be read a little later by another rapporteur, but with a crucial difference in the last line, and we will be able to discuss that in the debate afterwards. Proposal for adoption The Parliament expresses its deep concern about the human rights situation in China and notes that, with recent restrictions on democratic rights in Hong Kong, there can no longer be meaningful talk of one-country-two systems. Parliament calls on the government, together with like-minded countries, to continue to criticise China for the human rights situation in that country, particularly the deeply worrying situation in Hong Kong. The Folketing supports that human rights are constantly being taken up with the Chinese Government bilaterally, in the EU-China dialogue and under the auspices of the UN, including in particular in the UN Human Rights Council. The Folketing urges the government to continue to pursue concrete initiatives that can be implemented by Denmark or the EU to avoid further erosion of fundamental freedoms resulting from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Hong Kong's own local constitution and the international agreement concluded between Great Britain and China. The Danish Parliament attaches great importance to Denmark's strategic partnership with China, while respecting human rights. • V 43).
ParlaMint-DK_20201221190957	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191006	Thank you for your speech and for your initiative. This isn't such a critical question. In fact, it is a clear question. When the rapporteur says that he wants more concrete action on the part of Denmark and that it will mean something, could the rapporteur not elaborate on what it is and what it could mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191032	I speak for good reasons on the basis of the knowledge I have. But when you look at the discussion in among others... England, but also in the United States and Canada, has both the Canadian Government and the British Government a strategy on how to welcome Hong Kong citizens who are persecuted, that is, what Ted Hui calls a safe boat, that is to say to become safe boat for refugees. I am a little aware of the fact that this should not challenge the asylum system, but can you get some other ways of doing it in terms of training accommodation, residence permit? How, then, can we simply try to find out in concrete terms how can we welcome people who are fleeing Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191123	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur for the questioners. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191138	Now it was the case that Mr. Uffe Elbæk wouldn't say the ladies first, but then he might have just drunk off. Thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss a difficult subject, namely the situation in Hong Kong. There is absolutely no doubt that what is happening in Hong Kong right now is extremely worrying. However, I am very, very pleased with the discussion we have had here before today's debate and with the very positive atmosphere surrounding the text of the adoption. It is the case that the rest of the parties have agreed on the text adopted by the Social Democratic Party, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the rest have borrowed. It's okay, because it just shows how much consensus there is in this Parliament about this. And I think that lately there has been a lot in the press that Parliament would be divided in this area. I just think that this text of adoption shows that we are actually a united Parliament. It may well be that there are some things that need to be changed, and I would also like to say, like Mr Beyer de Ryke, that there are some things that need to be changed. Uffe Elbæk said that this is a dialogue that must continue. I really think it should, because this is an ongoing process. It is the case that in the Social Democrats we see with great seriousness and concern the human rights situation in China. That is also what our proposal for adoption says. We mention the word human rights three times during the 150 words. It is also the case that recent developments in Hong Kong, both up to and especially since the adoption of the National Security Act, have been a hard blow to freedom of expression and to the opportunities for political participation in Hong Kong. As the Minister also said, civil and political rights have gradually come under increasing pressure in China. Not least in Tibet and Xinjiang. In the social democracy and government, we attach great importance to raising the issue of human rights and to seeking to improve the human rights situation in China through the channels available. We really believe that these channels are first and foremost through the European Union, but also through UN cooperation. We are constantly helping to emphasise our fundamental position, both publicly and through diplomatic channels, within the framework of the etkina policy. We do this both bilaterally and in direct dialogue with China through EU cooperation and the UN. What are we doing with regard to the European Union and with regard to cooperation here? We have an important tool for the human rights dialogue with China, precisely through the European Union. Denmark gives priority to dialogue, and we proactively support the agenda, as well as our permanent participation as an observer. Following Danish pressure, the EU has also made more than 20 official statements and declarations. After all, it is something that Denmark is pushing here, so it has resulted in 20 statements. The European Union has also raised the issue of Hong Kong with China at all high-level political meetings, and in the European Union there has been agreement on other steps to be taken, as the Foreign Minister clarified earlier in his speech. What is happening through the UN? Yes, the government is also actively addressing the human rights situation in China under the auspices of the United Nations. This is happening, among other things. through the UN Human Rights Council. When we talk about the foreign policy of value, I would like to give you an example of how the Foreign Minister, for example. working. In relation to the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, we in the Foreign Policy Group have previously been informed of, and it is now public how Denmark has ensured that more than 30 countries have made a statement on the human rights situation, including equality of women. It is the case that, by pressing internally for it, the internal system has succeeded in bringing more and more countries with it. That is the way we work in Denmark, and that is what the Foreign Minister is doing. Our relationship with China must be driven by the adoption of Danish national interests, and we must stand firm on our values. We do not compromise our values in Denmark. This is where freedom of expression, human rights, freedom of assembly, etc. are concerned. The strategic partnership is a framework for our relationship and a framework for cooperation in various areas, such as: sustainability. It makes good sense to work with China for a common and more sustainable direction, and that is what we do best through cooperation on concrete solutions. At the same time, the partnership also provides a framework for critical dialogue. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is important to continue the active efforts, particularly in the United Nations and the European Union, but also through the bilateral dialogue, and I know that the government will do so. I think there is a difference between short-term markings that I see there have been in recent times and more long-term solutions. In the Social Democratic Party we want the latter, and that is why I would also like to read out our proposal for adoption. It is on behalf of Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Left, Conservative People's Party, Danish People's Party, New Civil and Liberal Alliance. Proposal for adoption The Parliament expresses its deep concern about the human rights situation in China and notes that, with recent restrictions on democratic rights in Hong Kong, there can no longer be meaningful talk of one-country-two systems. Parliament calls on the government, together with like-minded countries, to continue to criticise China for the human rights situation in that country, particularly the deeply worrying situation in Hong Kong. The Folketing supports that human rights are constantly being taken up with the Chinese Government bilaterally, in the EU-China dialogue and under the auspices of the UN, including in particular in the UN Human Rights Council. The Folketing urges the government to continue to pursue concrete initiatives that can be implemented by Denmark or the EU to avoid further erosion of fundamental freedoms resulting from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Hong Kong's own local constitution and the international agreement concluded between Great Britain and China. The Danish Parliament attaches great importance to Denmark's continued strategic partnership with China. • V 44). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191812	Thank you to the rapporteur and that text will also be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191822	Thank you for that and thank you for that speech. My first question concerns this proposal for adoption. So we are three parties who would like an extra sentence, which was called "respecting human rights' when it came to the strategic partnership. There was no interest in that among the parties that now agree on the text that was just read out. My question is not polemical, I would like to emphasise. I just want to understand why it has been decided not to emphasise human rights when it comes to the strategic partnership.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191904	I do not think anyone in this Chamber can blame us for not mentioning human rights in the proposal for adoption. In fact, it has been mentioned three times that freedoms should not be undermined. It is very, very sharp, also much, much sharper than it has been in many other places. But we have a commitment to the diplomatic trail, to our trade agreements, so that is why we actually think that the last line balances this proposal for adoption, and that is why it is in the way we have agreed with the rest of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191940	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221191941	I just don't understand the wording, that is, the balance of it. It is really, really nice that human rights have become so clear in the main text, but when it is important for the rest of us that it should also be added to the strategic partnership, it is precisely because this is the prerequisite for all the cooperation that we need in the field of industry as well. I mentioned, for example, the working camps for the Uighurs, which produce for Danish companies, for example. In other words, the importance of including human rights in that text is part of the partnership approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192030	I do not think in any way that Mr. Uffe Elbæk can blame the Social Democracy for compromising on some things. At no time do we compromise our core values on human rights. Neither do we in relation to partnerships, nor do we in relation to any way of working on this issue. It is the case that when we write it this way, it is important to have a strategic partnership, just as the Foreign Minister explained in his speech. As has also been said, China is, after all, our second largest trading partner outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192111	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192114	Thank you so much. Mrs Annette Lind is quite right in that of the two proposals for adoption very much resemble each other, but it is true that sometimes the devil is in the detail. What we agree on is that there are two leads. One track is about human rights, and the other is about the strategic partnership: it is in both proposals for adoption. What then is the difference is that we are some who believe that when we talk strategic partnership, we must also remember human rights. That is why we have put in a sentence and it has a majority in the Chamber so rejected must be there. Apparently, a majority does not believe that it is important to emphasise human rights when we talk about strategic partnership. And I have to ask, as my colleague, Uffe Elbæk, why?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192203	In my opinion, there is a really, really fine balance in the way it has been done. There is no doubt whatsoever that Denmark condemns what is happening, for example. violence in the streets. We call for peaceful dialogue and for restraint and so on. etc., and we are also on guard for Danish values of freedom. There is no doubt that Denmark does. At the same time, however, we must also make it work when it comes to our trade, and we do not compromise our values of freedom just because we are dealing with them. This is our second most important trading partner outside the European Union, and that is why we need to have a diplomatic lead on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192248	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192248-2	It is clear that we are, of course, looking to find out whether we could possibly vote in favour of the majority's proposal for adoption tomorrow, and it is clear that if it is said that it was an oversight and that it might as well have been written, that should not be the point. However, I think that the Socialist rapporteur is speaking in a position where it is emphasised that it is not really important and that when we talk about the strategic partnership, it is quite conscious that it is not there. And that is why I have to ask the Socialist rapporteur: is it a completely deliberate act that one has both failed to write it in the line on the strategic partnership and that one refuses to put it in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192331	In every possible way, this proposal for adoption reflects what we mean in the Social Democracy and in a very, very many other parties. It is the case that we must have diplomatic contact, that we must have a critical dialogue, and I think that the critical dialogue is described in what should I say? I think it's balanced and really, really, really fine. You have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192406	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192410	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you for your speech. It is good that there is generally a broad consensus here about finding a common foothold in relation to China. The European Union has a strategy and a position on China, and it is also good that we have one, but I would just like to ask two questions: will the rapporteur confirm that the cooperation agreement will be based on human rights values? Because it's so important. And will it also be based on reciprocity, i.e. that we also have a reciprocal exchange, for example. on technology and knowledge transfer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192446	Thank you for that and thank you for including Conservatives in this proposal for adoption. I'm really glad you guys are. It is also the case that I am glad that we in our party do not compromise in any way. The Foreign Minister has said this in the past, and I am saying it now: we do not compromise at all on Danish values of freedom, in relation to Danish core values. This also applies in the future in cooperation with China.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192515	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192516	If I am to be a little more specific, can the rapporteur give some suggestions as to how the government will strengthen public procurement so that we ensure that there is no breach of human rights in the supply chain? We have just seen that we have purchased muzzles produced by forced workers in Xinjiang, and there have also been Lenovo computers purchased for the state with more. How are you going to ensure that we get a better strain on public procurement so that there is no violation of human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192548	As Mr. Uffe Elbæk calls for continued dialogue. There must be this in all possible areas, especially in relation to our core values, and that is why dialogue is the most important thing in the future in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192603	The next brief remark is to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192605	Thank you for that, and if anyone is in doubt, Danish-produced muzzles are actually made in a town called Randers. So it is possible to buy Danish muzzles if it is. But funny enough, that wasn't why I asked for the floor. When I asked for the floor, it was because the Socialist Foreign Affairs rapporteur, in an answer to Mr. Uffe Elbæk says that we do not compromise on our values, and that sounds good. But does the action show it too? Because if we go in and look at how and how the visit was handled by both the government and the Social Democrats, when the Hong Kong pro-democratic campaigner Ted Hui came to Copenhagen, who is not least a person who is actually democratically elected by Hong Kong's local parliament, how were the values that are not compromised achieved? Yes, the person could not have a meeting with the government, nor did anyone from the governing party have the time or opportunity to come to the visit. So are those values that you do not compromise with, just a little toast talking, or are you following it up with concrete action when it seems to hurt a little when you have to meet a pro-democratic elected local MEP?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192717	Now Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is well aware that our calendars often contain two and three meetings at the same time, so that is why our work is a priority every single day. I had a meeting that was more important to me and, at the same time, we are not compromising on these things. It's very, very clear about this. That shows the Foreign Minister in his action every day that we do not compromise our positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192745	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192746	I have one hundred percent respect and recognition that our calendars are very, very full. I just have to say that I think it sends out a very, very wrong signal that the ruling party or the government in no way wants to meet with a pro-democratic opposition politician who is democratically elected. We are not talking about some self-appointed opposition leader, but we are talking about a democratically elected person who visits Denmark and who suddenly does not dare to meet in this way. I must admit that I think a very, very wrong signal is being given that, in relation to the value-added issue at least, it is being compromised. So I just have to admit that if you want a value-based foreign policy, then there is no point in just talking about it, but then you have to do it in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192833	I think it's a little too bad when you make short-term solutions when you use Twitter to mark yourself short-term because there are populist things in relation to this. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that there must be long-term solutions. It's a long, cool move. It is not whether you meet with one or two opposition politicians, but this is about working through the European Union, working through the United Nations. It is therefore through the diplomatic trail that we are getting far, by far the best results, and that is what we in the Social Democrats are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192910	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221192911	As I also said to the Foreign Minister, we are all fully aware that there are different roles. There are some things a government can do and a foreign minister can do, and there are some other things we, as members of parliament, can do. That is why it was apparently a situation in which there was absolutely no possibility for Mrs Annette Lind to attend that meeting, but was there really no other Social Democrat representative of the Social Democratic Party at such a meeting? There I think it has been completely missed by the dial when Mrs Annette Lind calls it populism that you meet people who are on the run. It is true that this is the long tough move, as Mrs Annette Lind says, but one has to start somewhere, and they are not mutually exclusive. Now I am asking: is it a decision of principle, or was it just completely by chance, that no one in the quite large Socialist Group was able to set aside time for a meeting with a dissident like Ted Hui? Can we expect the next time some refugees come from Hong Kong what is guaranteed is that they will not have time on the calendar either?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193012	It is the case that each member of the parliament arranges his own calendar. My calendar was full, and that was the choice. There was a meeting that was more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193022	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193023	Will Mrs Annette Lind call on her party comrades to take part when a dissident from Hong Kong comes next to visit Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193031	I would call for the long, tough move. I would urge you to go through channels that can lead to some real results. This can be done through the European Union. You can do that through the United Nations. You can do that through the diplomatic trail. You can do that through the Ministry. I am a rye bread worker, and that is the way I work here in the Folketing, and perhaps it is not about to meet a politician in the way it was presented here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193110	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193132	Thank you, and above all thank you, to the initiators of today's debate. Actually, I'm really, really happy about that. I think it is quite appropriate that we should have a debate on the extremely deteriorating situation of human rights violations in China. If we look at the situation in Hong Kong, I think there are many of us who have seen the extremely violent images coming out from there • how to strike down pro-democratic forces, but also how to adopt legislation that is in direct contradiction with the original agreement reached between Britain on the one hand and the People's Republic of China on the other. Unfortunately, this is just an additional chapter, it can be said, in the very negative trend that has been in the People's Republic of China for a long time, when we are experiencing them acting more and more aggressively, both internally, also in relation to the Muslim minority, for example, but also externally, where they are also acting more and more aggressively, they are building islands into military bases; they are acting more and more worldwide and are really also a threat to countries in Europe, including Denmark. So, of course, the question is: how are we going to act in that reality? And on the left side it is very clear. We want us to deal with the growing threat from China and the increasing extent of violations from the Chinese regime within, through the various international forums where we sit, significantly different and stronger than today. Among other things, it has to be done. in writing. - (FR) We do not allow ourselves to be slowed down by the fact that we cannot get far enough in relation to the European Union. I agree with the Foreign Minister that we should not go alone with China. We would not get much out of that; we are simply too small and it would be too easy for China to take retaliatory action if we as a small country went solo. That is why, as a starting point, we must, of course, always try to go through the EU track and through the UN track in relation to UN human rights. However, as the Foreign Minister himself said, it is unfortunately rather naive and optimistic if we believe that we can come all the way alone through EU cooperation. And that is why we in the Left have repeatedly advocated that a coalition of willing countries should be given priority which will both be able to push internationally with China, but which will also be able to do so, among other things. under the auspices of the United Nations and under the auspices of the European Union. The advantage of it is, of course, that we are more united and thus a stronger voice towards China. But another advantage, which is at least as important, is that it will be virtually impossible for China to retaliate if we are united. And that's why we've been talking hot about this, and we're gonna keep doing that. Does this mean that we should not have trade with China at all? No, of course not. We are a small export-driven country, and that is why, of course, we must continue to be able to export to all countries in the world, even countries which do not resemble us in any way in terms of democracy, freedom of expression, etc. That is why, in fact, we are also advocating a new strategic partnership with China. But it must be a different strategic partnership from what was done years ago, because unfortunately the situation has changed significantly from that of the Chinese side. Therefore, our call to the government will be for the new strategic partnership to be focused on trade, that is. Some sort of core business partnership, because we will be able to get a lot of that out of it, and for that matter China will also be able to get a lot of that out of it. Because even though Denmark is a small country, we are actually market leaders in a large number of areas, not least in relation to green industry. And that's why we in the Left also think that there's gonna be a potential in being able to do this core focus. We will then also be able, what to say, to reduce the focus in relation to those things that will not be so smart in terms of military cooperation, in relation to police cooperation and other cooperation, where time has changed and where it is certainly not wise today to enter into a strategic partnership on it. So all in all, it has to be a two-pronged strategy that we are making in relation to China, where, on the one hand, we focus on and together with our friends, among others. like-minded countries, dare to refrain from the abuses that are taking place in China and, at the same time, also insist that we, as a small export-driven country, should, of course, be able to trade with a country such as China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193650	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193655	Thank you. Well, I'd like to ask you a very personal question of that kind. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is not that although it is only trade, that is, even if we limit the question of the strategic partnership only to trade, one can discuss how much strategy there is in it, but okay then there must still be an underlying consideration about human rights; that then human rights should still be below it? Or can one say that trade is something where you can just completely distract from human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193734	In the many years that I have been working on foreign policy, I have promoted that our dialogue with the People's Republic of China must be critically based, so that we too dare to speak out against them. And I know that the then blue government did, and I assume that the current government is doing so at any level of government. And that's why I think that, and I actually sat and looked at the 47 pages of the original agreement on the strategic partnership that, in fact, there is already a focus on human rights in the original agreement. Does that focus have to be bigger? Yeah, I mean that, actually. However, it has already been envisaged in the original agreement made under the then Blue Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193812	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193814	But is it to be understood in this way that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen thus has no objection to the inclusion in the resolution in the paragraph on the strategic partnership: respect for human rights, that is, that it is not something for Mr Aastrup Jensen. Michael Aastrup Jensen will be a problem that it says?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193839	Now you can hear that, sir. Søren Søndergaard has been sitting in the European Parliament for a long time, because this is not a resolution; it is a proposal for adoption that we have made in connection with our question. But fair enough with that. Well, this is a proposal for adoption that has been negotiated by several parties, and we respect the agreement we have made with the government after a debate, and that is why we stand guard over it. But that doesn't change the fact that I thought that, like the original agreement, there was a focus on human rights, so as a minimum there should also be a focus on human rights in the forthcoming agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193909	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193911	First of all, thank you for a very good speech. I almost agree with word for word on what has been said, but I have a question. Now that we are about to, what can we say, reform our strategic partnership after New Year, does the rapporteur have an idea of how we will have that discussion? Because I think it is very interesting to go in and say: are there any areas that we simply have to go back again and then perhaps, in return, sharpen some others? Does the rapporteur have any idea how that discussion could take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221193949	Well, I expect and hope, of course, that the government will involve Parliament's parties in that debate and at least that it will be done in the Foreign Policy Name. I know, sir. Uffe Elbæks will probably be upset because Mr. Unfortunately, Uffe Elbæk does not himself sit in the Foreign Policy Name. But it could be one of those places where I think it should be dealt with at least. And as Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Group, I also assume that this is something that we are the initiators of, and that we are, of course, discussing the strategic partnership in the area of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194021	Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194023	It is true that I am not sitting there, but it may be that I can be changed occasionally. But what I really would like to see coming out of this debate was an ambition to direct a very such analytically sharp look towards our relationship with China. Too often you just discuss in quotation marks what it means in export terms etc. etc., but what is our dependence on China? I am thinking here of the concept of strategic dependence, because we import things from China. Then we can see it with a risk view, a threat view, as did the Defense Intelligence Service in their last report?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194104	Well, I clearly believe that it is all relevant to discuss. I am sorry to say again that these are matters to be discussed in the Foreign Policy Name.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194113	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194114	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very, very good speech. Of course, we still have to deal with China; there is no doubt about that. After all, we have a great many jobs tied up in it. After all, we are also dealing with India and Indonesia, and right there it is not everywhere that the situation is always too good. That is why we can also use trade in a constructive way. What is the rapporteur's position on, for example: to be able to use the investment screening tool that is now being adopted in the European Union? Would that be something we could also do here on the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194154-2	Well, the answer is definitely yes. I think we should follow up on the investment screenings that exist. There is also a parallel work in which the government has also taken various initiatives on investment screening. So the answer is yes, we will have to. The world is changing, and that is why we also need to be more careful in relation to such investments. So the answer is clear yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194218	Katarina Ammitzbøll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194218-2	Thank you. Now we did not get so many answers from the government about the human rights issue, other than that they would not compromise. But it doesn't come out of there much. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur here: it also says in the EU and in the China Strategy that talks and dialogues on human rights will be discussed, both internationally and bilaterally. Does the rapporteur also see an opportunity for Denmark to be involved in this and how, for example, how? in an EU forum, in other words to discuss human rights mutually with China?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194251	Quite clearly yes, and unlike three Danish Socialist MEPs, who unfortunately voted against the resolution on China four days ago, as I remember, or three days ago, there is a clear and significant majority of many others, including the Left Group in the European Parliament, who insist that the European Union should have a sharper line, at least on the part of the European Parliament, in relation to China. So here, too, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194320	Thank you to the rapporteur. No further brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194340	Thank you, President, and thank you to those who have called the question. We in the Danish People's Party could have been involved in this ourselves, in that we ourselves have called five times to discuss China, which is a socialist dictatorship that oppresses its citizens. Since Mao Zedong took over power in 1949, the Middle Kingdom has done so, and today oppression is far more subtle. In the past, where the socialists used raw power, torture and mass extermination, they are now using artificial intelligence and modern technological monitoring mechanisms and have succeeded in ensuring the Chinese an unprecedented material advance, so that China today has become a superpower economically. It is impressive that a socialist dictatorship in a few decades has transformed the former planned economic structure into a state-controlled market economy: a China a/s. Indeed, many Western business leaders have been embarrassed by the approach of the Chinese rulers. Western government leaders have similarly greasy for Chinese rulers because they wanted to ensure access for companies to the huge market in China. We all know the lefle of changing Danish governments to China with the socialist-supported Thorning-Schmidt government act in Tibet as the absolute low point. China has taken advantage of this goodwill to crack down on all kinds of domestic political tendencies for more freedom and more popular rule. The richer China gets, the more powerful and totalitarian it becomes. The Big Brother community is rolled out at staggering speed and to a degree that only a few years ago one had not had the imagination to imagine. That is why developments in Hong Kong are almost entirely predictable. Step by step, the demands of the Hong Kong Students for self-determination and freedom are being garrated, and the Danish Government, together with the EU, is watching with smashed eyes and mouths shut while Hong Kong is slowly suffocating. China's respect for fundamental civil rights and for international rules can lie in a very small place. Powerful organ harvests Falun Gong believers. The Tibetan language and culture will be suppressed in 70 years. Thousands of people are executed, often after a summary judicial process. The sovereign country of Taiwan is threatened with its existence. Artificial islands are being built in international waters. Big multinationals like Huawei, also known as hello and hello, are a Trojan horse in the open Western societies. Thousands of female honeybees and research spies are sent to the West for intercepting and copying Western technology, etc. etc. I admit that it is not an easy situation for a small country like Denmark to do something about. Why should we protest if we do not do so in France, England and Germany? It is a task for the European Union if the Union is to have any justification at all, and preferably in cooperation with the United States, that is to say the United States. It is not easy to interfere in the internal affairs of a country. We also get mad when the Americans or the Chinese get involved in domestic relationships. However, the situation in Hong Kong is in many ways a prism for what is happening in China. The Chinese rulers have become aware of their strength, and they are now reaching out for world power. They use their huge financial resources to enslave and suck out poor countries all over the world and threaten Western democracies, and lately they have also started playing with the military muscles. Such power-loving China would not be satisfied with democratically elected governments, but would prefer authoritarianism. So when they hit Hong Kong so hard, it is a premonition of how they will deal with other countries' attempts to choose their own path. A China, for example. support democratic reforms in countries such as Vietnam or North Korea? No, I guess you don't. So the battle for Hong Kong is also the battle for tomorrow's world... either a world controlled by a Chinese socialist dictatorship, or a world based on self-determination and popular rule. This is what we are really debating today. We do not want China to interfere in Danish relations. We cannot get involved in Chinese matters, but we can, however, criticise in cooperation with others, among others. The EU, the United States and possibly other Western allies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194840	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194843	I just wanted to hear: is it a mistake that the Danish People's Party is co-signing this proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194852	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194853	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194855	- Sir... Alex Ahrendtsen then not expand why? For example: The strategic partnership with China does not even mention the issue of democratic rights. Well, it seems odd compared to that perhaps a little tumorous speech, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen held. Or is it just to be understood that when it comes to trade and something like that, it is not so important to point out democratic rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194929	I really think that I said very clearly in my speech that we do not want China to interfere in Danish relations; that they are pushing us; that they are somehow telling us how to act. The stronger China gets and the less criticism they get, the hotter they will be, among other things. to Denmark. I, along with other colleagues, am trying to protect Denmark, including China.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194956	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221194958	Then I think I will follow up on what the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten asked. Because can the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party not explain what the party's position is when discussing business strategy and business policy, i.e. whether human rights are an important element in it or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195021	So, in the Danish People's Party we recognise that as a small country we cannot stand alone. We also recognise the need to cooperate with others, among others. The United States and the European Union, for criticizing China. We also recognise that business has great interests in China. And we recognise that trade strategies are important for a country like Denmark. We also recognise that as a country we cannot interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. What we do not want is for China to interfere in our relations; for them to pressure us to act in a certain way when it comes to Tibet, or when the Royal Theatre gets inquiries from the embassy not to do this and that. We do not like that, and that is why it is important for us to be able to stand together with others. The European Union and the United States are criticising China.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195128	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195130	In fact, I get a little confused, because on the one hand, the rapporteur says that people will not tolerate some critics of us, but on the other hand he says that we, together with the European Union and the United States, must criticise China. Well, I guess it's okay to criticize each other and to raise the value policy agenda that you now think is right. If I just have to put another question, that is: what is the position of the Danish People's Party in relation to Taiwan? For the rapporteur says that what is real in Hong Kong today may be the situation in the world tomorrow. Does the Danish People's Party have a position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195214	But Hong Kong is the prism. So, what China is doing in Hong Kong today, they will also do to other countries tomorrow, and they are already doing so. After all, they have huge investments in Africa, and they have a huge impact on governments down there. They will also do so in their immediate areas and already do so today. The reason we do not have peace on the Korean peninsula is because China totally backs North Korea. So that is our position. They should not interfere in our affairs and we will stand firm on that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195248	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Would you mind sprinkling? Thank you. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195312	Thank you very much, President, and also thank you to those who have raised this question. As several speakers have said, today's debate is both relevant and deeply topical. At least it is for two reasons. One is that the situation in Hong Kong is deeply affecting us all. It is a situation that has gone from bad to much worse in a frighteningly short time. All of us who have had the opportunity to meet representatives of the democracy movement in Hong Kong are aware that this is bloody serious for them and for the whole population of Hong Kong. However, this is also a relevant debate that has been raised by several speakers, because it is the picture of general development and a general problem which is about how we deal with one of the new great powers of our time, the largest, China, in the new multipolar world order that we are looking into. How do we deal with a system that is so different from ours, but vice versa, a state that is indispensable and that will not disappear in any way whatsoever, but will become part of our continued reality and that looks into a future that is at least for some years still very different from ours? What can and should we do? For me, and that was why I commended the Foreign Minister, there is no doubt that both when it comes to Hong Kong specifically in these days, weeks and months, and when it comes to the big picture, Europe and the European Union are a crucial player. I am just mentioning this for the sake of good order, because it is not a matter of course in a Parliament where three parties are vertically opposed to Danish participation in the European Union. However, it is only obvious to me that if you want to be able to influence China and make a real difference to China, then the European Union and Europe are indispensable. Every European country is a small state in the world order we are looking into. Together we are still away the world's largest trading economy with the muscles it provides if we can stand together and if we want to stand together. That is the prerequisite. Having said that, it does not, of course, exempt Denmark from having a position. It does not exempt Denmark from taking responsibility in Europe and influence the EU in the direction we then think is the right one. And what should Denmark work for? What should be our goal in the Danish-Chinese relationship? There are at least four areas in which I see it where we have strong interests and should have clear objectives. There is a security policy area and objective, which is, of course, the broad security policy agenda. It is not the case that I at least fear such conventional military attacks or intervention by the Chinese at our latitudes, but there is a cyberreality, there is a technological discussion, there is an economic discussion, which is what one might call soft security policy, but which we are going to discuss with the Chinese as well. That is the one agenda. The second agenda is the whole climate and energy agenda. And if you ask me, our greatest security policy challenge today for our generation of politicians is probably the climate challenge. It is essential that China should be on the wagon if we are to succeed in achieving this. The third is human rights and democracy, in other words, trying to influence the Chinese political system in a more democratic direction. Finally, last of all, maintaining strong trade and economic development with China is also for the sake of Danish business interests, exports and jobs. All four areas are important to me, and they are linked. And if we are to say what is common to the four areas, it is that our interest in China not being isolated but, on the contrary, being included in a new multilateral legal order at international level is crucial. The worst thing that could happen was that China succeeded with what some forces in China want to isolate the country and a few states that would join, in one, one might say, the new bipolar world order, where our ability to influence it both in terms of security, climate, human rights and trade is zero. We need to bind China and all other great powers into a new world order that is rule-based, and not the opposite. Therefore, Danish China policy always becomes a balance between saying and doing too little and saying and doing too much. We've moved, and we need to talk louder, and we're talking louder. Conversely, we should not quite go out there where we completely give up diplomatic relations and influence the official channels as well. We must have that respect for balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195833	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195834	As a starting point, I always think that we should work together, and that is the right way forward. However, as the rapporteur also says, things are going the wrong way at the moment in China. What does the rapporteur think is the best strategy for this? At the moment, it does not seem at all that China agrees to engage in equal cooperation relations. Well, it's massive what's going on right now. And most recently we saw that the United States, I think it was yesterday, or it was today, simply went in and closed bank accounts, and they terminated cooperation agreements in the cultural field, etc. etc. What does the rapporteur think is the best way to do this? And I'm asking you honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221195924-2	That's a crazy big and hard question to answer. In other words, it can be said that if we do not somehow connect some of these agendas more directly to our trade relations and preferably in a multilateral setup, it will be difficult. Take e.g. OSH, which is also part of the human rights issue: what demands are made on the products you trade with? Which bars are also put on the climate issue, etc.? This is, in fact, the first step that I see what we can take. It is not because I say we should be afraid to say what our opinion is, but I hear the rapporteur asking: what is the next step? And what is our huge challenge is that there is no opposition as such in China. There are some minorities who are severely oppressed, but it is not the case that there is someone we can, if I may say so, discuss with or ask etc., and that makes the task much harder. So my answer will be: let us start by tying China to exactly the same rules to which all of us are bound within the trade regime, because that is a good first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200036	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200037	The rapporteur on the Left, I think, raised an interesting debate with regard to the future strategic partnership, namely that perhaps there are areas we should go home again. There was an example here six months ago, when our police were visited by the Hong Kong police at the same time as we saw what happened on the streets of Hong Kong. So, where are the limits of this cooperation, and are there some areas on which we simply should not have cooperation with China?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200113	Yes, I think there is, and sir. Uffe Elbæk mentioned one of them. There have also been examples of research collaborations which, according to the media stories at least, have been used in some military organisations in China. I do not think that was the purpose of the strategic partnership either; I think we should think strongly about whether we should continue to do so. So I certainly think there are things that we need to revise on the basis of the developments that have been going on for the past 5-6 years since we established the partnerships initially, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200145	Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200146	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. As usual, there is always an analysis from Mr. Martin Lidegaard has an excellent analysis with four points. Perhaps a fifth could have been added: The global South • Who takes responsibility for Africa? The rapporteur says here: we must have an international regime of law and order. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is it? As far as I am aware, it is, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom. The UN, the ILO, the Human Rights Council and the OECD guiding principles. It is not the case that we have something that is coercive. There has been criticism of the WTO in relation to the need to mainstream human rights. So where is it actually that the rapporteur sees it possible to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200233	Well, that is a sad truth, which unfortunately I cannot do so much about from up here that we do not today have binding international cooperation with sanctions in the field of human rights. We've never had that. We have obligations, but we do not have a world police force that comes after those countries that fail to fulfil their obligations. I believe that one of the organisations that it could be and which, of course, has sanction mechanisms is the WTO. And I would like to see you, for example. In the area of health and safety at work, and perhaps it could even move on to some social rights... could start a discussion along these lines. But it is a long process, and for the time being we must start by making the WTO work at all, and we must also bring the United States with us. But if the United States and the European Union together could turn the WTO into an organisation that could really set some international standards, then it was a good place to start, because China too is dependent on being able to export their goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200330	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200331	Thank you. It's good to have some bigger visions out there. But could we not try to start with the European Union, if we were to be concrete again? I know that the rapporteur may not always be super enthusiastic about or trust in the European Union, but the European Union has just adopted a global human rights regime last week so that sanctions can also be imposed. Could we not also go that way from the Danish side? I could have asked the rapporteur many questions, but I should have stopped here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200403	I absolutely believe that Denmark should be among those in Europe who should support the efforts of the European Union mentioned here by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ By the way, I love and love the European Union. That is what I hope to see in my speech. And then I forgot to say before that when it comes to the problems of the South, the future of Africa, Europe has an interest, a responsibility and an opportunity to enter very concretely through new trade agreements and through new social contracts and make a huge difference, not least through new trade agreements. So there too I fully agree that we have a special obligation to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200439	I recognise that in a foreign policy debate there may be a need and almost a need to use English terms. But I also think it is important that we remember to translate along the way. Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and then we can welcome Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221200511	I am not speaking against China, but in favour of freedom, democracy and human rights being for all the people of Hong Kong, including for the Uighurs. I am speaking in favour of Denmark being clearly on the basis of human rights. It is our duty as democratic politicians, but it is not just a matter for us. In Denmark we have among other things. seen that the artist Jens Galschiot traveled to Hong Kong years ago with his great work of art. And another of his striking but recent works of art stood for a period down here at the Palace Square in support of the defenders of democracy. And, yes, the Chinese embassy seemed to feel rather violated and wanted the work of art removed. Of course, that did not happen; it seems they had just forgotten at what latitudes they were staying. And I'm sure they were both angry and offended if they saw this little work of art that Jens Galschiot has also done to support the defenders of democracy in Hong Kong. Support for democracy must come from both the political level, from artists and from citizens. The situation in Hong Kong is desperate. Fastlandskina is holding both hands tight around the necks of democracy and the rule of law and openly breaking international agreements. Let me therefore send the warmest greetings to the defenders of democracy: people who are either still imprisoned or at risk of being imprisoned in terrible conditions. I admire your courage and fighting spirit. Respect here from Parliament's platform for Joshua Wong, Nathan Law, Alex Chow, Lee Cheuk-yan, Wu Chi-wai, Andrew Wan, Helena Wong, Fernando Cheung, Kwok Wing-kin, Eddie Chu, Ray Chan and Ted Hui. After all, I had the opportunity with several of you to meet again here recently. I'll send a greeting to you in a dark time with the hope that you will keep up your courage despite great personal costs. It's a myth, and we like to repeat it, that the big wall can be seen from the moon. It can't, but the story's all right anyway. On the other hand, I am quite sure that if you built a monument to the crimes of the People's Republic against humanity, then it would actually be visible from space. The critical dialogue with China is at the heart of changing the dictatorial aspects of the regime. Denmark and the world cannot do without China when it comes to the joint fight against the climate crisis, but we, and not least the Chinese people, can do without the zealous surveillance and repression exercised by the Chinese state. That is why it is important for Denmark, as always, to stand firm on the rights of the individual when we work with China, and therefore cooperation is also necessary, both because it is necessary for the climate, but also because having a critical dialogue is far preferable to not having a dialogue. However, Denmark's role as a critical partner is not worth much if, at the same time, the EU does not play a more significant role. After all, the single market is more important for China than the other way around. The protestors in Hong Kong's streets long cried out to the world for support in the fight for freedom and democracy. But the reactions from the outside world were very modest. So what is it that the citizens want? Yes, they want independent courts, a free press and the right to choose their own political leadership. These perfectly legitimate demands were met by brutal police with truncheons, rubber bullets and tear gas and paid gangs who participated in the attacks on the demonstrators. Activists and defenders of democracy are thrown into prison. That is exactly how powerful rulers rule, and it is the recipe for how conflicts are getting worse and worse. And it is ominous when the regime in Beijing calls the demonstrators cockroaches, terrorists and a radicalised minority. Denmark must, in a clear language, call on China to respect democracy and comply with the agreement on the special conditions for Hong Kong, but unfortunately we have to note now that the lights are off. Through the European Union, Denmark must put maximum pressure on the regime in Beijing, just as we must hold China accountable in all UN bodies, where China has, for many years, been determined to increase its influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201006	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201008	Thank you for a good speech, and thank you also to the rapporteur for a good cooperation throughout this debate on China. It has been very encouraging. My question is whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have any idea how Denmark can specifically support the democracy movement in Hong Kong. What good advice is there for our Secretary of State? I bet he's sitting right downstairs listening. So what are SF's concrete proposals on how we support the democracy movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201043	The absolutely horrific answer I will give first is simply that the light is almost turned off in Hong Kong. I find it difficult to see how to regain strength in Hong Kong, so I think, however tragic it is, that we have to look at the next phase as a flight of democratic forces out of Hong Kong. So now the support is not in support of the defenders of democracy and human rights in Hong Kong, but in helping them further in their lives outside Hong Kong. And there I think that some of the things that the Foreign Minister has mentioned may be the extension of study periods or other forms of hand-out may be some of the ways one can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201128	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201129	We both met Ted Hui when he was here a few weeks ago, and he stressed how important it would have been for him and the democracy movement to meet the Foreign Minister, that is, that it would have been crucial for the forces still left in Hong Kong that that dialogue had been officially initiated. What is the rapporteur's position and assessment of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201201	We simply have to take that on as politicians. We must meet with democracy defenders who have escaped from the hands of the political Chinese police and thus have not ended up in prison. I think it is a duty that we have. I also recognise that there are different roles when it comes to what a foreign minister and a government can do, although I thought it was a little sad to see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should actually be praised by the Chinese embassy I might have missed that, but I understand the game. On the other hand, it is a duty for us and also for the Socialist Members of Parliament to meet with dissidents from Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201233	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201234	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I'm just gonna ask sir. Karsten Hønge, whether there are areas in Denmark's relationship with China that are exempted from being subject to a human rights consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201245	No, I couldn't think of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201248	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201249	And that is not the case with the so-called strategic partnership... it is also subject to a human rights consideration, which must take place in respect of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201301	Well, I think it's just like Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard refers to the proposal for adoption, which refers six times to human rights or democratic rights. That is a perfectly clear language. That is the starting point for cooperation with China. We have already mentioned a few areas here today, such as the purchase of facial masks, which there is apparently a larger production of over in Randers I didn't know about, but that's something that we have to put in every time we shop: is this being produced by slaves, by prisoners, by children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201339	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201405	No country in the world, nor a small country far away, can relate to the world without dealing with China, the Kingdom in the Middle, and this also applies to Denmark. Whether we like it or not, China represents a large part of the future. Not only has the country the largest population, perhaps soon surpassed by India, but it also has the world's second largest gross domestic product. When it comes to real purchasing power, a recent World Bank report shows that China has already passed the United States, and when it comes to gross domestic product, it is only a matter of time. In the next 10 years, China will pass the United States as the world's largest economy. It is clear that this development does not bring equal joy to all circles, especially in the United States. Under President Trump, I would say hetzen against China has reached new heights, and the hysteria of the threat from China has been to take and feel, not least because Trump, more than anyone else, has undermined international institutions and agreements, which in future will be the only means to contain China's increased power. In the view of Enhedslisten, Denmark should under no circumstances make itself a tool for that project. But that does not mean that there are no huge problems with the Chinese regime, because it is there. First of all, there is the repression of human rights in China itself, the construction of a surveillance society, the lack of freedom of expression, the imprisonment of dissidents, the repression of occasional rebellions. It is quite wrong to think that there is no resistance and rebellion in China; there are plenty of them every day who are oppressed by the persecution of national and religious minorities, for example. The Uighurs, and most recently the violent repression of the democracy movement in Hong Kong. But there is also the growing attempt by the Chinese regime not only to influence other countries, for example. through the Silk Road project, but also in some areas to impose their will on them, especially in relation to matters involving China. If anyone thinks that in the long run we can overcome these problems of sanctions, then I say: enjoy. I don't believe it. In the long term, the only solution is the only solution in the long term. And that is precisely why it is so crucial that our policy with regard to China is always always at the latest in Hong Kong, which represents a more democratic future. That brings us to today's two proposals for adoption. On several points, they are the same. On the one hand, on the one hand, we agree to criticise the human rights situation in China and address it in various international forums, for example. The UN Human Rights Council. In the second clue, we also agree on China's growing importance given the importance of Denmark's strategic partnership with China. But the big difference is whether there are two separate tracks where each track runs simultaneously and never meets, or whether the strategic partnership should also include human rights. It cannot be explained there by the fact that it has been 17 times in the previous paragraph, because it is not in the section on the strategic partnership. There you have to explain whether it is a mistake or whether it is because you mean it. If that is a mistake, okay, then we can surely convince ourselves that we should vote for the majority's proposal for adoption tomorrow, but if you mean it, then it will certainly not be with my vote that the proposal for adoption will be adopted. The proposal for adoption which I have tabled together with Uffe Elbæk and the alternative is clearly on the last interpretation. We do not want to have a situation where human rights disappear again as panda diplomacy grows, where representatives of official Denmark cannot meet with persecuted democracy defenders, or where the police are set to remove Tibet's flag from a legal demonstration in order not to harm the strategic partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201936	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221201937	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we agree on several points. We actually agree on 13 lines out of 14. What I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech about the last line of the strategic partnership is that there is precisely no contradiction between defending human rights and then entering into a strategic partnership. Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that there are contradictions in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202005	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202007	Yeah, there can be fast. It is quite clear with the policy pursued by China. It is quite obvious that if you choose, even within the framework of the strategic partnership, to emphasise democratic rights, then there may be situations where China retaliates. We have seen that in a lot of other areas, and we have to be ready for that. That is also why it has not been written in the proposal for adoption, or perhaps even worse, that it will not be accepted, even if we have proposed it. Then it is no longer because we have not just found that it was not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202044	Mrs. Annette Lind, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202045	I simply do not agree with that, because in my optics there are no contradictions. It is the case that we can defend human rights while at the same time having a strategic partnership. But then let me try to ask you another way. Mr. Søren Søndergaard not that the human rights dialogue is also part of the strategic partnership and political dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202106	Yes, we think so, and we thought it was something everyone thought it was. That is why we thought it was so obvious to write it in precisely in the context of the strategic partnership. That is why, in spite of appeals, we have to ask: Why? What is the reason why just the few words have to be why? I do not think that the reasons given to us today have been very convincing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202140	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202140-2	Thanks for a good speech. I have one question, such a clarification question. As I heard the rapporteur, the rapporteur said that sanctions against China would not be the way forward, in other words that what should be prioritised is to support the democratic forces in China. In the talks we had with Ted Hui, he specifically said that he would recommend economic sanctions against China. This means that some of the main defenders of democracy in China also recommend doing so, because China has only respect for the way in which communication and the way in which it acts. What are the rapporteur's considerations there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202230	Thank you for the question. Because if I had had one more minute, that was exactly one point I would have liked to have expanded. Because if you just got what I said exactly, it was in the long term, and that means that we certainly do not exclude targeted sanctions. We do not rule out the possibility that it may be necessary in certain situations and that it is right to impose sanctions. In fact, we ourselves have proposed this a number of times in the past. But we just have to understand that in the long term we cannot sanction ourselves out of this. We could do that to smaller countries if we wanted to. We could do that to Turkey too, but we could do that to countries that did not have the size that China has. With the size of China, the only solution in the long term is for there to be a change in China, and that is precisely why it is so important that we support the people who are in charge of that change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202328	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202328-2	Perhaps my last question is a little more subtle. Something that I myself have wondered about is how thin-skinned China is about criticism of China. So, a scenario is being lined up where China is world domination economically, we see how they talk about new Silk Roads, they buy up half of Africa, they want to sit down in Greenland, if Trump hadn't gotten them ahead of them said with a smile: Why does China respond to the smallest critical formulations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202411	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202411-2	I am not going to be wise about that when it comes to making the only explanation, but I actually think one of the explanations is that the Chinese Communist Party is not sitting in the saddle as safely as it is being presented. As I said in my speech, there are regular rebellions in China. It's not something we hear about. It's kind of like the Square of Heavenly Peace. There we heard a lot about the Square of Heaven and about what happened there, but those workers who demonstrated and struck and were murdered hundreds not very far away, we did not hear anything about. And that is something that is happening in China, with free trade unions being set up under difficult conditions, and we need to support something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202456	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202457	Thank you for a speech with, I think, many good and interesting points. I'm actually gonna ask you a little the other way. Because now Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked most of us, but not me, why there is no respect for human rights in the strategic partnership, and as far as I am concerned, I can only say that I would like to clarify what this really means. For today we have a programme on human rights under the strategic partnership, and I am fully in favour of that continuing, and we have, despite having a strategic partnership, also had a very critical dialogue with China. We can discuss how much has happened and how much it has helped, but we have talked about it very carefully and critically, including bilaterally. So what does it mean, which is not today, if I may say so, with respect for human rights? That was at least one of the reasons why I hesitated a little about the wording. For what is it? Is it only after we have established a fully liberal democracy in China? For as Mr. Søren Søndergaard suggested that it may have a slightly longer time horizon than the next 3 years. Or what does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202605-2	If we now take that part in trade, that means that we must make all those who act and all those who invest in China, and also, what should we say, by means of the Danish state and Danish initiatives, aware that under no circumstances and in no way leads us to stop criticising human rights violations when it is necessary to do so. So it's kind of a way to send a signal to Danish companies and others: Please invest in China, please, but don't invest something you can't afford to lose. Because we know from Airbus and from elsewhere that if you criticise China, one of the weapons they use may be to cool the connections, and by emphasising this here we stress it precisely in this very important context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202711	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202711-2	This brings me to that understanding of sanctions versus non-sanctions, which I think is a crazy interesting discussion, and where I may think it is not so easy to distinguish between long-term and tomorrow. Now sanctions can be many things, but I assume that what we are talking about here is primarily trade sanctions. And there I actually share that view and that is also what I said in my speech that I am not sure that we are doing anyone any favours, let's just theoretically say that we are necessarily making major trade sanctions against China. I understand that, and we share that view. But perhaps you can imagine some other things. But could the rapporteur clarify that with the sanctions a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202754	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202755	Yeah, in half a minute. My point was simply to say that it cannot solve the problem in the long term, and that was to use it as a springboard to say something else. We must understand that, with the power that China has in the world, we will not have a peaceful world, we will not have a democratic world unless there is a change in China and that change must come from within. It cannot be imposed by sanctions. It cannot be imposed by military intervention; it cannot be imposed by cyberattacks. It can only be imposed by the people of China themselves, and therefore those who rebel in order to have democracy and human rights must always have our support, no matter what it costs in the short term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202842	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Søren Søndergaard and can move on to Mr. Søndergaard. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221202854	Thank you, sir. President. - Thank you to the authors of this important debate. This is perhaps one of the most important foreign policy debates, because it is the case that China is challenging us all at the moment. Some claim that we are moving into the Chinese century, and that is a challenge, not because of China's traditional culture, but because of the system in China, and that is communism. That is the challenge. Napoleon should once have said: let China sleep on because when they wake up, they will shake the world. They were allowed to sleep all the way to the 1970s, where there was an opening, and it was really, really nice at first. They had to get out of poverty, and what they were concerned with was growth and development, and that was very good. But in recent years there has been such a paradigm change, and one might then ask whether we in the West have been a little naive and perhaps slept per hour. Since 2012, I think there have been a lot of worrying things going on: the President has been turned into the life-time president, there is the boycott of human rights, you challenge neighbouring countries, you have global ambitions, also militarily, and it challenges us all. Then there is the building of the new Silk Road, and it is also something that benefits the Chinese, and it is also a challenge. What is also worrying is that China is, in a way, also undermining the organisations and countries that have helped them out of poverty. They do not comply with the international rules of the game, and that is also a challenge. We in the Conservative People's Party are in favour of a good relationship with China. We are also in favour of continuing to trade with China. It is an important market for Denmark and the Danish companies, and we can do so, but at the same time we must also speak a little more clearly in relation to the boycott of human rights. Some of this is found in the current partnership agreement, where there is also some mention of human rights, but what I think is important is that what it says is further developed and more clearly identified. We are not in favour of Denmark simply coming into conflict with China as a single country. With regard to the issues in which China challenges us globally, we must therefore do so with the other democratic countries. I sympathise with the American administration's idea of the alliance of democracies that we democracies come together in relation to the challenge of China, for example what Australia is facing today. They are being pressured by China, and there they are, in a way, standing alone. In fact, I would like to see us on their side in Denmark and the EU countries and the other Western democracies. Maybe it'll bring respect to the Chinese. So our challenge must be together with our allies, both in the European Union and also in the democratic countries outside the European Union. Because here we have the opportunity to speak with a much larger voice against China than if we do it alone. That is why it is of course important that we try to reach agreement on a new course among our international partners. At the same time, it is also important that we continue to be able to trade with China. As I said earlier, it is very important for the Danish economy that we continue to trade with China. However, continuing to trade with China does not exclude the fact that, at the same time, we in Denmark can send a clear signal to China that Denmark will not turn a blind eye to human rights violations in Hong Kong, but also in China in relation to religious minorities. However, the first step in this direction is to address the problems and challenges that exist, and in a way we have opened up this important debate today in the Assembly Chamber, and I hope that the government will act on the debate that has taken place today in the Assembly Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203344	There is one brief comment. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203346	Yeah, it's short. The rapporteur says that we should not challenge China as a single country; I fully agree with that, but should we not, as a single country, stand up for what we mean? Well, there's a paradox in it. After all, the rapporteur also mentions what is happening with Australia at the moment, but we have also seen that Sweden came into being and that Norway came into being. Does the rapporteur have any idea how we, as countries, can back each other up in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203419	The examples that were mentioned are, of course, what emphasizes that we should not do this alone. Australia challenged China alone. They're under pressure. It is the same with the Swedes, and that is why we must do it wisely. We must do this together with the other democracies. Although some people do not like the current American administration, there is at least an idea that I think is sympathetic, and that is the idea of the American Foreign Minister about the alliance of democracies. Also in relation to the appointment of leaders of the various UN organisations, it is important that the West does not have five different candidates, but that we agree on one. So sticking together will be a challenge for China. What we need to remember is that we democracies form a minority in the world and in the United Nations, and that is why we have to stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203513	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203515	I fully agree that we need to back each other up if there is a country that is getting into a mess that Australia has come up with right now, and I am just thinking of how we can make it much more strategic and targeted, so that every time there is a country that gets into that situation, we back each other up. I can say that it was a very, very nice personal experience when Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll and myself were suddenly subjected to criticism from China that we had a lot of parliamentary colleagues around the world who immediately went out and said that this was not right. So how could you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203553	That is to get common ground among the democracies in relation to China. We should not regard them as our enemies or our opponents, but simply say that we want to trade with China and that we want to continue to have a good relationship with China. They must therefore also respect human rights, and that is important to us. They tell us what's important to them. We must also tell them what is important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203625	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Would you please wipe it off? Thank you. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221203651	Thank you for the floor. At the beginning of November 2017, I was with the Beijing Foreign Policy Name, and one of the programme points was a meeting with the Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister, Wang Chao. And it was so scandalous that it reached the readers of Berlingske. In Berlingske's online newspaper on 14 March 2018, the following report read: "He is the then chairman of the Board of Governors, Mr. Søren Espersen describes the first part of the meeting with the Chinese as cozy and traditional, but suddenly the meeting took a turn. The Chinese minister took out a piece of paper, which he read from and in sharp terms explained to me that I was required to convey a protest to Pia Kjærsgaard that she should not meet with the representative from Tibet, says Søren Espersen. It was a shocking meeting, and I don't have to take Berlingske's word for it, because as I said, I was there myself, I even took a picture that Members can see when I get back to my seat in the back row. Wang Chao's behavior was so cross-border, I have to say that I have never experienced anything like it. China is a state that pushes politicians from other countries hard and with rough methods to achieve what it wants. The article I quoted from listed eight other examples of Chinese pressure against Danish politicians. And the article is almost 3 years old. But it does not stop here, because as most people probably know, Denmark has the world's fifth largest merchant fleet. But we do not have the world's fifth largest military fleet, and that is why we are dependent on an international legal order, such as the United States. protects the right to free navigation on the high seas. But what about it? A few years ago I asked the Philippine general responsible for the part of the South China Sea bordering the Philippines whether there was indeed free navigation. And he said it was there, but he added that it was due to the fact that the American fleet has a permanent presence. So China is a problem for its outside world, but it is also a problem for its citizens. When you go on an official visit to China, you get a little joking to know from home that you have to be careful with the three T's; it's Tibet, Taiwan, Tiananmen. But there is also, for example, something else. the question of minorities in Xinjiang province and, of course, the issue we are discussing today, which is Hong Kong. I therefore believe, as several other rapporteurs have also said, that the time has come for Denmark to reconsider its relationship with China, because it has become in many ways a nuisance to its surroundings, but indeed for many, many decades it has been a nuisance to its own citizens. That can no longer be ignored. It should be carefully considered, so I will not stand here and come up with fixed and ready solutions to what can be done. But times have simply come to understand that after Xi Jinping's takeover of power China has become something different than it was during Hu Jintao. Many may have thought that the next generation of Chinese leaders became more liberal than the previous one. But Hu Jintao was an exception • he was the most liberal leader they have had • the others have been much more authoritarian. But what you could do as a start was you could send the pandas in the zoo home. For they are a kind of Trojan horses; they are Trojan horses with an extreme degree of cuddlyness on the outside and then with Chinese influence inside. And these are some gifts that should not be carried inside, for as everyone who has listened to ancient knowledge or has read the Iliad knows, terrible things happen when you drag the Trojans in. So it is a proposal which has been passed on to the Folketing. However, we welcome the debate and support the proposal for adoption which Mrs Annette Lind has already read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204158	We thank Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. And that means that we are now through the rapporteur's line, but we are not quite finished with the debate. It is now the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204227	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you very much for a good debate and for good considerations, remarks and questions that have come to this debate. I will come back to some of the specific questions in a moment, but I would first like to say that this debate is important and that I am glad that we have taken it here today. It is not an easy debate; it is full of dilemmas. In both Hong Kong and the human rights situation in China in general, these are critical conditions, as several people have said. I have said this before, and I would like to say this again: Denmark's relationship with China is based on many decades of mutual recognition and the current strategic partnership. This is a solid testimony to the versatility of the relationship, and there is also room for criticism of each other. There are many areas where China and Denmark do not see things the same, but it cannot and must not prevent us from developing areas where we see mutual benefit from the relationship. Having said that, the government attaches the utmost importance to Denmark's co-operation with the European Union. Our best chance of making a difference is, as I said, and this is also reflected in the proposal for adoption, primarily through cooperation with like-minded countries in the European Union and the United Nations. It is also important for the government that Denmark's relationship with China enjoys broad support here in the Folketing, and I am pleased that this is the case with the proposal for adoption that is on the table now. Almost all parties were behind the adopted proposal for adoption in 2018, V 36, where we raised a common concern about the particular human rights situation in China and agreed to uphold freedom of expression and democracy and reject attempts to limit them in Denmark. We regard this resolution as central in the government. At the same time, we agreed to continue working with China where it makes sense. We also agreed to attach great importance to the strategic partnership with China, and we then confirm this today, including with the Danish China policy. The proposal for adoption today, for which a majority has expressed its support, must be seen in this context, but also in the fact that the situation in China and Hong Kong has changed, which we must and must of course respond to, and so do we. And by the way, I and the government will continue to do so. Then I'll just have a few considerations. Many important things have been said in the debate, but there are two characteristics of this world. One, of course, is that we see a great power rivalry; I think that is known to everyone. China appears on stage. I also believe that Mr. Søren Søndergaard reported that according to the World Bank China has already overtaken the US as the world's largest economy in terms of purchasing power. It is a matter of time if you look at China's development. At the same time, we see that the Great Power Rival between the United States and China has increased; it was Mr. Søren Søndergaard also mentioned. It's a trend that, as we know, moves many things. And there it is important that Denmark actively deals with the world we are looking into, and the United States is and remains our closest ally in this regard. The second is that, at the same time, we see the values on which we have built the world after the Second World War, the binding international cooperation based on human rights, democracy, transparency, common trade rules, etc. I mentioned earlier that Freedom House has calculated that only by 2020, freedoms have been curtailed in 80 countries around the world, in other words in the world we are in. And that's why the answer, as several people mentioned, is not just Mr. Martin Lidegaard, but actually Mr. Lidegaard, too. Søren Søndergaard, sir. Uffe Elbæk and others that we must strengthen the international binding cooperation anchored in, among others. The United Nations, the European Union, but also the World Trade Organisation, and use the tools we have to commit everyone to respect human rights. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If we talk about trade policy, there are some possibilities in the eight basic ILO conventions: the prohibition of forced labour, the right to organise itself in a trade union and the negotiation of collective agreements, etc. It is important to use those tools to keep the countries up to what they have obligations, and that also applies to China. Therefore, a response to the world we are looking into, where our values are under pressure, is more binding and better international cooperation through the organisations we know about whether it is the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation or others, and of course the European Union plays a central role in various forms of alliances and partnerships. That was raised by several speakers, and I fully agree that the answer here is very important. This also applies to the climate. Well, it is quite fantastic that we managed to get a climate agreement in Paris which obliges the countries of the world to do something about the climate, which is an existential threat to all of us and to our children and grandchildren. Nor can we escape the fact that major important countries such as China, India and others and, of course, the United States are absolutely essential in terms of success in the climate struggle. That is why I am pleased that there is also a lot of support for the strategic partnership when we put content on • focusing on the green transition and our joint commitments here. The same can be said of other areas. Equality is an important, important issue that we are celebrating next year in Beijing, and there is all our work on equality here. We in Denmark must also use our voice there, including in relation to China. Every fifth woman in the world is actually Chinese, and it matters; it's just to take one example. So this whole thing about us working together and using international structures for that is absolutely crucial. So all in all, I just want to thank you here for a very good debate, an important debate, and I am delighted that we are broadly united in the Folketing. I believe that this is the first condition for us to be able to make a difference; it is that we in Denmark stand together and that we use the international organisations we are part of, including, not least, the European Union, to make a real difference to the values that we are building on, which we are fighting for, and which we believe this world must be marked by, in other words, for those values to be promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204855	Then there is one brief comment on Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204859	Thank you. Yes, it's just one brief comment. That's because during the conversation with Mr. Simpson... Michael Aastrup Jensen was said that the Socialist Members of the European Parliament did not vote in favour of a resolution on human rights violations. Can the Foreign Minister confirm that this is not the case, i.e. that the resolution as a whole was voted in favour, but that part of it was not voted in favour? It was about not voting that it was up to the European Parliament to decide which companies and individuals the regime can and should be used against.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221204934-2	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind for her question. Now I did not go into the controversy with the Left rapporteur, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, but as I am told and as I see it, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the resolution in its entirety. I think it was enlightened differently and that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned that it had voted against the resolution. That is not correct, but that is why I did not turn it into a polemic, because it can happen to the best of us that things can be said which may not be entirely in line with reality, from the platform. So I'd like to say to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen that this is an opportunity for another time to correct. Anyway, it was actually wrong. The Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of the resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205023	Now it's just sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205027	Thank you. A lot must be experienced, and I have been in the Folketing for almost 16 years. I have not yet seen a minister's own rapporteur suddenly become suffless in the Assembly Chamber, but something has to be experienced from time to time. But then we could also be suffless and emphasise what was actually being said against by the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, namely the whole question of sanctions against China. There it is, of course, that I find it really, really worrying that one is not willing to put down a hard fight. On the one hand, we want free trade and, on the other hand, we must also be wary of the value-based foreign policy issues, which I hope we all agree will be denied daily in China.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205115	I am very sorry to correct the rapporteur of the Left again, Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen. What was the case now, sir? Michael Aastrup Jensen listens very carefully to the fact that in a part-vote it has been made clear that it is not the European Parliament that can or must decide which people or organisations can actually be subject to the EU's global sanctions regime. That is the fundamental division of work between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and I believe that is the case. Michael Aastrup Jensen is fully aware of when you get a closer look at the matter. Having said that, I am glad that we have now had a global human rights sanctions regime. This is something that I and the Danish Government have worked hard for, and it was adopted here recently so that the EU can sanction serious and serious violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205211	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205212	These are the famous Magnitsky sanctions, which unfortunately there were strong forces in Europe that would not have been called Magnitsky sanctions and that were introduced into the European Union, and that is wonderful. I have spoken very warmly for that for many years, and that this is an opportunity, isn't it? But where do we see the Danish Government in relation to it? In other words, the American Government has been able to sanction personally in relation to Hong Kong, where official people have specifically denied freedom of expression, human rights and democracy. Where do we see the Danish Government taking leadership in bringing these sanctions up in the EU so that the EU could make the same sanctions as the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205251	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205252	I understood from the question put by the Left rapporteur that we are also pleased that we now have a global human rights sanctions regime in the European Union; I welcome that. It is important that this tool should, of course, be used in the face of serious human rights violations, and the work on investigating serious human rights violations throughout the world is now under way. So it is not aimed at a particular country, but at the whole world, and I think that is very important. And in relation to the discussion here about China, let me come back to my earlier point. I think this challenge we are facing is so important and so serious that there's no room for this domestic political fuss, so I hope we can put that behind us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205335	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is over. As I said, we will be voting on proposals for adoption at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205344	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 99 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut, Javnaðarflokkurin, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG). And a group of 80 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Sambandsflokkurin, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). The groups have appointed the following members: 1. Jan Woollhead (appointed by RV) 2. Flemming Thornæs (designated by SF) 3. Henrik Høegh (designated by V) 4. Torsten Schack Pedersen (designated by V) Alternates: 1. Karsten Lauritsen (designated by RV) 2. Jesper Pagh (designated by SF) 3. Flemming Damgaard Larsen (appointed by V) 4. Lise Buchreitz (appointed by V) Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folketingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201221205445	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 22 December, at 10 a.m. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
