ParlaMint-DK_20200616130009	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130018	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130032	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130034	Today is the last question hour in this assembly, a collection that became somewhat different than we imagined. What we have experienced, both here in Denmark and in the world, will of course go down in history, and the current situation in, among other things. Hjørring confirms us that we are not yet out on the other side. Yesterday I had the great privilege of participating in another historic event, albeit much more positive, namely the hundredth anniversary of the reunification, where South Jutland came home and the border between Denmark and Germany was established. I think that for many in the younger generations, reunification may be something that seems remote, but the older you get and the more you are in the South Jutland, the more you get a feeling about how historical it was. Just think of setting a limit in a referendum, it was quite unique. From yesterday more tourists could once again cross the border to Denmark it is pleasing because from Norway, Iceland and Germany, and we are again starting to see a more normal border country. I know that brings happiness on both sides of the border. Speaking of the border, we in the government would now like to establish objective criteria as to when a country is safe enough for its citizens to visit Denmark. In other words, if the number of new infected people in a country is at an acceptable level, it is our wish to open the borders of that country. This will make it possible to open up more and more rapidly to entry and, of course, also exit and still manage the situation at home. With regard to today's debate, I would like to say that we, on the part of the government, would like to inform the Foreign Policy Group about the government's concrete model before it is put to the public. But imagine how far we have come as countries and as neighbours, when the greatest concern is no longer where the border should go, but how quickly we can open it and be with each other again. Speed was also important when we introduced aid packages for employees and companies. Everything has not been perfect, but the packages have helped many thousands of citizens who otherwise risked losing their jobs. On constitutional day, we made another important tripartite agreement. Thank you. We have now agreed that the wage compensation scheme has been extended until 29 August and then phased out. Now we need to start supporting companies in a different way by speeding up the wheels, increasing sales, investing more and, at the same time, phasing out temporary aid packages. The night to Monday another broad agreement was reached; thanks to the Left, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the Alternative. The agreement means, among other things, that those companies which still have to keep closed can continue to receive aid. We deposit 10 billion. kr. in a new fund to strengthen the capital base of large Danish social-supporting companies affected by the corona crisis, and at the same time we will extend the rest period for benefit recipients, so that no benefit entitlement is granted in July and August either. This means that, overall, the benefit period has been extended by up to 6 months for benefit recipients. Then we also managed to get an agreement on the frozen holiday money. In the autumn the 3 weeks are paid, and for an average employee it is in the order of DKK 15,000. After baby. Pensioners, students and families on transfer income will get 1,000 DKK. tax-free. Let me finish where we left off in the last Question Time, namely with the EU budget and Denmark's increased contribution. This is and will be a major challenge. I welcome the fact that there is support in the Folketing for the line that has been drawn. This is, of course, crucial to Denmark's negotiating position. We must show solidarity with the countries most affected, but solidarity and responsibility must go hand in hand. We will fight for that. It won't be easy. We are a small country in a great union. We will of course insist that there should be reasonableness in things, that the Danish tax dollars should be used as sensibly as possible, and that there should also be money for the things we want to do at home. Finally, a warm thanks to the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the alternative to this morning's green agreement on more recycling and less burning of our waste. The agreement will result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the removal of 280,000 diesel and petrol cars from the roads. This is good news for the climate and shows once again a Parliament working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130514	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we move on to questions from the party leaders. At first there are 2 minutes, followed by two times 1 minute. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130523	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister. Europe is in a serious situation and there should be no doubt that the Left supports a strong Denmark in a strong Europe. We need to help southern Europe, and that is also in our own interests. There is a need for Denmark's solidarity not to stop at the border boom, which I hope we can open up more with what the Prime Minister is proposing here. Europeans are deep in the DNA of the Left, and so is economic responsibility. And the Prime Minister and I agree that the money should be found in the existing EU budget. We both know that's not gonna happen. That is why the government has today asked for a new mandate for the negotiations on the European budget. And Denmark's contribution is going to increase; this is going to cost more money. That is why the Prime Minister asked the question last week: where should that money come from? The Prime Minister himself mentioned three ways of financing it. One was tax increases, the other was welfare cuts, and the third was higher retirement age. I know the Prime Minister is willing to put up the treasure. We've seen it around, unfortunately. I do not think it should be more expensive to be a Dane, and I believe that it will be poison for Danish companies if taxes are raised and Danish jobs are sent out of the country. We are in the middle of an extraordinary situation. We are in the midst of an economic crisis with tens of thousands of new unemployed, with a public deficit of 200 billion. kr. and with a government that will reinstate the early retirement. It would be quite irresponsible to issue a new bill of billions without pointing out the funding requested by the Prime Minister. So, dear Prime Minister, Denmark will pay more. The Minister for Finance has asked the Parliamentary Committee on Europe for a mandate to say yes to this morning. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130726	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130728	First of all, of course, I very much welcome the fact that, I understand, on one of the social media, the rapporteur of the Left has indicated that the mandate of the Left is of course supported. There's been a little uncertainty about it, but I thought that was good news. And this isn't about the budget we're debating now; it's about the fact that this Parliament through, I was about to say generations, and I can't boast about that kind of family-like thing myself. There are others who can do this, but then for decades have agreed to stand together in European politics and go together. I know that some parties have disagreed with this, who think differently about European policy. But there has probably been a completely fixed axis across the middle of Danish politics for 30-40 years, and several parties have taken responsibility in that situation. Because, of course, we may disagree on perhaps the scope of free movement versus social dumping or other issues, but when it comes to the broad lines of European policy, we are too small a country to be divided ourselves, and that is why we stand together in European policy, and then we fight for Denmark's interests and not our own interests when we go to Brussels. After all, it is still the government's belief that we must make things up for a higher unit at the end, both in the negotiations on a recovery fund and also in the budget. We support a recovery fund. We still think it's a good idea to pay for your own debt. That's what we're gonna fight for. And as we have said from the beginning of what the previous government also did, it is also our belief that you can keep a budget very, very close to one percent if you modernise it at the same time, making it more green, more climate-friendly. However, the answers to the EU's challenges are not just a larger EU budget. It is against this background that some of us will certainly be negotiating over the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130927	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616130929	We simply do not disagree on this. So, that is 'yes', we need to correct the negotiating position in which we have been brought, by the government starting by calling the other countries 'gak' and having brought itself to a place where you do not listen to Denmark. Denmark's place is in strong European cooperation. There should be no hint of doubt about that and we were also ready to accept that the Prime Minister came home with a bad negotiating result because of a bad negotiating strategy and then set up the mandate accordingly. We had good discussions on this, including with the Minister for Finance. And I think it is very responsible to ask: where should that money come from? It is irresponsible, however, to ask for permission to print a large bill without indicating where the money will come from. There are many good things we can agree to spend money on, but the prerequisite for that is that we agree on how we finance it. So why is it that the Prime Minister will not answer this question: where will the money come from? How is this financed? The Prime Minister had a bid for it last week... which one of the three should it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131044	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131048	But it's a wonderful approach to these negotiations that the Left is signing on a bill that the government is doing what we can to make as small as possible. That's a strange way to negotiate. And what exactly is it that the Left imagines we should have done differently? Should Denmark have failed to cooperate closely with the few other countries remaining on a more budgetary-restrictive line? And is the President of the Left sure that it is true that it has deteriorated Denmark's starting point in relation to the negotiations? Is the Left really sure about that? What exactly would have been done differently? Traditionally, Denmark may in fact be hiding a tiny bit behind Britain. Unfortunately, Britain is no longer part of the European Union, and there are few of us left on what I would call a balanced view, namely that we want, yes, to contribute more to the European Union. The only thing I can really see right now is that, unfortunately, the Left is emerging from broad European political cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131158	Here you go, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131200	I hope the Left isn't. But as the Prime Minister starts by saying, it would be amazing if the Left signed on a large bill that was fought for was as small as possible. Yes, that is why we are not doing it, that is why we did not give a mandate. That, in fact, was the answer to the Prime Minister's question from last week. I'm an optimistic creature, but I have to say that I'm deeply concerned. I am concerned about the billion-dollar bill, which may have to be paid by taxes and levies, which thus push good Danish jobs out of our country. I am concerned about an economy that reforms have made strong, but not completely invulnerable. And then I'm deeply concerned that the PM's act in this is costing Danish influence. For Britain is no longer part of the European Union. And the Prime Minister can call it scams and talk about how it is a good part of being from North Jutland that you say things should be connected. I think so, too, but I'm half-vellbo, too. But I think that Denmark's voice should be heard loudly, it should be heard clearly, it is in Denmark's interest in European cooperation, and it does not, when you have an arbitrary negotiating tactic that sends Denmark to a corner where no one listens to us and where traditional partners like Germany are just pushed away. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that this brings Denmark to a bad place in relation to our voice being heard in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131324	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131326	That is simply an argument which is in no way connected. We have a close, loyal, trusting cooperation with Germany. It is no coincidence that the German Chancellor and myself had a very long meeting with each other very recently; we consider each other to be close and close neighbours. I can also say here that, unfortunately, we have to cancel the Nordic Prime Minister's meeting, which we should have held here in July, because of Corona, where the German Chancellor intended to participate, what I see alone as an expression of our very, very close relationship. In all due respect to what is being said here, I do not see that this is about European policy. I think this is more about something quite ordinary political teasing in a Parliament. Everything has its time. And yes, we can then waste the Danes' time in many contexts, just not in European politics, because Denmark's interests are at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131427	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The question is over. We move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131436	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introductory remarks. I share the pleasure of the reunion day yesterday and so on. etc., and there were many things that could be taken up. But it was just in relation to the last debate here: well, it was the Prime Minister who asked the question a week ago during Question Time: should it be higher taxes? the Prime Minister asked. Or should it be taken away from climate action and education? I don't have that money. Quote out. That's what the Prime Minister said a week ago. If the government wants to increase the EU budget, then other parties cannot be blamed for being interested in where the money should come from. We do not get that answer today, because we do not know exactly how much it is going to increase. But this is, of course, an issue that we will also pursue in the future. What I would like to spend my time on here in Question Time is one of the packages that has been put in place in recent days: the package which received the support of the majority of the night before yesterday in the Ministry of Finance, and otherwise thanks for the negotiations, although it could not go all the way, Mr President. Minister of Finance. However, when the Prime Minister mentioned the series of issues contained in that package, I noted that the Prime Minister's voice was getting lower and lower when it came to pensioners and people on transfer income, and that it was a little quietly said that there was, I think, DKK 1,000. To them. But what I want to ask the Prime Minister is whether she is proud of that part of the agreement and whether she welcomes that part of the agreement. One is, of course, a debate about the DKK 1000, the money that should be set aside for pensioners. That is one thing, and we may disagree on that. But the second and most important thing for me is that a folk pensionist who has fought his whole life to help build up this welfare society is now getting the same thing as the refugee who has come to Denmark perhaps three years ago and who is on return service, that is to say that the two people with the agreement that has now been made and that for this reason the Danish People's Party has stayed out of it will get the same amount from the state in the autumn. Does the Prime Minister think it's a good thing? Is it really a priority for the two groups to have the same thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131645	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131647	It is just to round the issue of the European Union again: I have great respect for the fact that we can look at things differently, I have to understand here, very, very large parts of European policy and, for others, a smaller part of European policy. I also just have to say, after sitting in the Folketing for almost 20 years, that when it comes to mandate, it is a completely different matter. I know that the Danish People's Party has traditionally played a different role than a number of other parties, but when it comes to terms of office where Denmark's interests are at stake, a number of parties stand together and have done so for many years, and I have no doubt that it has helped to ensure stability in both Danish domestic policy and Danish foreign policy. It is certainly a position that a number of parties have chosen to maintain, even if we do not agree on it all, and it is a position that I do not imagine social democracy will ever leave because it will not be responsible to Denmark. So, to the specific question, do I welcome the agreement that was made in the broad night of Monday? Yes, for some reason, agreements are now made virtually only at night and yes, I do. I think it is a balanced and wise agreement with a focus on holiday money, an issue that has been raised many times in this Chamber, and from the parties to the agreement it is not least Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who has asked about it several times. There's something direct to people on transfer income... I think that's sensible... there's a really good research allowance directly to our export companies. We want to accelerate the Danish innovation power and have made an agreement on an additional admission to higher education. Now we have to move forward with the climate negotiations and then make a broad economic agreement, where exactly the focus is on exports and research. So, overall, it's a good deal. Each of us may think that there was something more that should have been and something else that should have been less, but that is what characterises a broad political agreement: yes, you get something, but you also give something else, because we are different parties. But on the question of whether I am happy about it, I would say: yes, I am, and I am on behalf of Denmark, because now we are phasing out the aid packages and launching some new initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131901	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616131903	But I didn't ask if the PM was happy with the deal. It's funny that the Prime Minister answers a question I didn't ask at all. I asked if the Prime Minister was proud of the part of the agreement that is about a folk pensionist now getting the same amount this autumn as a refugee who has been here in, for example. 3 years and I'm on return service. That's what I asked you about. Then the Prime Minister comes with all sorts of other things: respect for it with the European Union, because I myself just wanted something to come up about it. However, in relation to this agreement, I did not ask at all whether the overall agreement was welcome. Of course, there are things that the government appreciates in that agreement. There are also things that we will be supporting when it comes to implementing legislation and in the Committee on Finance and so on, because there are plenty of things in the agreement that we could easily be in on that, too, I said to the Finance Minister when we were negotiating. But the part of the agreement that is about a folk pensionist who has been in this country all his life for generations and who has helped build up this welfare society must have the same amount paid in the autumn as a Syrian refugee who has been here for 3 years and is on return. I think that is simply an insult to Danish pensioners, and that is what I would like the Prime Minister to address himself to. Then it may be that the Prime Minister says: Well, we had our hands tied on our backs; we were forced to do so on our parliamentary basis. But I want to know whether the Social Democracy and the Prime Minister are proud of that part of the agreement or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132017	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132018	But why should this be an insult to anyone? Why are we not dealing with what is ahead of us, namely that we need to have a kick-start economy which, incidentally, seems to be getting through better than we feared? We need the Danes to go out and spend some more money. We have then agreed to have some of the holiday money frozen together; after all, it is people's own money that has been set aside because of holiday legislation. Then we choose to say that there are some people who are not covered by it, and then we choose an initiative that is about the DKK 1,000. Well, I am, and the government is, as sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl knows that it is in favour of profit for benefits in general, but when it comes to a package that focuses on getting consumption going, I think it would be a pity that pensioners should have access to what I do under the country's pensioners, but that this should not apply, for example, to people on cash benefits who have just lost their jobs, or people on unemployment benefits who have lost their jobs. Actually, I can't quite understand that difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132118	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132119	Thank you, President. But here we are talking about people who do not have permanent residence permits in Denmark at all. Well, we're talking about people here on a temporary arrangement. After all, the Prime Minister and I have had discussions about these groups in the past, and we have confirmed each other that they are intended to be here temporarily and to return to their homeland and help build it up. We have a dispute as to whether the repatriation policy actually works with the way the government works, where it is said that although the Refugee Board considers that, for example, it does not. Syrians can come back to Syria, so they won't, as long as Assad is in power in Syria, etc. We disagree on this, because I would like these people to return to their homeland. We are talking about people who are in a situation where you might ask if they should be compared to a folk pensionist who may have worked for 40 years to build up this society. I think that this is a fundamental difference, and I think that the Prime Minister should at least accept that something has gone a little wrong in the conciliation that was made the other day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132219	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132220	I just have to arrest the claim that we do not want Syrian refugees who no longer have a need for protection to be returned. After all, it is our clear conviction that they must. In general terms, I believe that this should be the basis not only for the Danish but also for the global refugee policy. Refugee is something you are temporary when you have a need for protection. That is also why we got a temporary paragraph into the legislation when we were in government last. What we have had a discussion about here in the Parliamentary Chamber, also in the past, is where the question is whether to impose and thus, as I understand it, so at the moment. be the only country that wants more formalized cooperation with Assad. We and I do not think that is the sensible way forward. But that does not change the fact that refugees must be here temporarily and, when it is estimated that they can return to at least parts of Syria, we should also return. And again, overall, I think it is a fine and fine deal that a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132320	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The question is over. The next party leader is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132329	I would also like to begin by welcoming the positive developments in relation to the management of the Corona crisis. I believe that there are currently 4 in life support and 58 in intensive care, and we must of course send them our warmest thoughts and hope for a speedy recovery. But we should also be glad that this is where we are, and I sense that it is not just in Denmark that we breathe relief, but that it is also around us that we can see that we have handled the first and most acute of this health crisis, although we still have to be vigilant. But then there is concern about the future. Is my business gonna survive? Do I have a job after the summer break, or when the repatriation and compensation run out? And how will our society get out of the crisis? And there I think there is a central issue at stake about whether we think we should do it alone or whether we should do it with others. The discussion that has been taking place between the Social Democrats and the Left since last Question Time about this bill, which no one knows the size of, is one thing: it is in some sense domestic politics, while what is really the historical issue is whether Europe is getting out of this crisis better than the last crisis, which led to a year-long struggle to restore jobs. And even if we felt at the time that we were both responsible and solidarity, I do not think that this was quite the case everywhere. In any case, I must say that I am of course delighted when the government talks about accountability, but I am listening, for example. to the former German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaüble, who says: should we give them stones, or should we give them bread? It is in this context that I think it is so important to have the mandate that has been given today. And I think that the government is moving from a situation where we were seen as an obstacle to Europe giving an offensive response to the crisis, to now being a place where we can actually move and find a solution that will also benefit Denmark. That is why I would just like to welcome the mandate and see if I could get the Prime Minister to confirm today that we are now actively in favour of finding a solution to this, so that we have a large aid package and an offensive budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132551	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132552	But we have wanted to do this all the time, and in my view it is useless to claim or take down that Denmark has at any time been an obstacle. The position we have is a perfectly common, sensible position in relation to economic policy. At no time have we been opposed by the Danish Government to the idea of a recovery fund. After all, we have already made huge aid packages, which, incidentally, I am aware of, is not really a very big offshoot in relation to, which is of course interesting. We've made huge relief packages, and now we go ahead and make a real recovery fund. Denmark is not an obstacle because we stand firm on the need for an economically responsible policy as well as the Radical Left, and I will never say that the Radical Left is an obstacle to, for example, a situation in which Denmark is not an obstacle. the green transition in Denmark because the party insists that an economically responsible policy is pursued in Denmark. So I do not recognise that premise, and our approach is the same; we need to create a recovery fund, we need to adopt a new budget, and we need to focus on that, I know we agree on modernisation, digitalisation, the green transition. And it is quite true that a great many Danish companies and thus Danish employees are heavily dependent on exporting to, for example, the countries of southern Europe, which is why we also have a common interest in the countries getting back on their feet. At the same time, we must also insist on discussing some content, for I have heard, for example, what we are talking about. the Italian Government's intention is to reduce taxes if this fund, as it now stands, gets through. And I think that is a rather harsh message to the Danes, that is to say that we are looking into having one of the highest retirement ages in Europe, and there is a broad majority behind that and that, moreover, we have quite a high tax burden, and we must help some others so that they can put the tax down. So I think there must be a fair discussion between the countries on how we can ensure that a budget and a recovery fund and that is also a bit of what I hear, Mr President. Morten Østergaard asks about the green transition and a fair development for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132753	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132754	Changing prime ministers have it in common that criticism usually bounces off, but it is nevertheless rare that praise is rejected as violently week after week in the Assembly, as is the case here. I think that, with the mandate today, the government will be placed in the right place, where we actually have the opportunity to influence what the Prime Minister says, because it is not just about how much we have to bring home, how many grey hairs we have to put on our Finance Minister, but that responsibility is really being extended to what is really at stake, namely Danish jobs. I believe that up to one in five Danish jobs is linked to exports to the EU area, and therefore it makes incredibly good sense, also in a relatively narrow Danish context, to influence what conditions there are. It is clear that if you put all your eggs in the basket that is about your own discount or whatever it may be, then you have less power to influence the other. However, if this leads to a recovery fund, which also provides some subsidies, which will lead to the rest of Europe moving as quickly as we have ambitions in the green transition, then more jobs are on the way, more companies can survive, and Denmark has won in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132902	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132903	In other words, I agree with the European analysis, and that is also what needs to be done, both from the recovery fund, but also from the budget in our view, because we need a budget that stimulates everything we want in Europe and not the opposite. We must also be honest there and say that it is not the case that some of those who are today very strong banners for a very large budget and a large recovery fund are, at the same time, very much in favour of us, for example. is reorganising agricultural subsidies to support our climate ambitions, or to make that effort on digitalisation and other things. So, of course, the game in Europe is spawned, but Mr. Morten Østergaard all about it. Then I would say that I'm not so used to that praise, so it may be that we need a few more questions before I feel quite comfortable in the way of talking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132948	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616132949	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but maybe there's more coming out of it that way. It's always worth a try, isn't it? I took note of what the Prime Minister said that now we were not discussing where the border should go, but how quickly we could get it reopened. I would also like to sign for that and say that I think is just the right approach. And I also understood that the previous position that the travel instructions were locked until the end of August is no longer valid. Then I just have a prayer this week from the modest circle of Danes, who incredibly want to spend the summer with the one they now love most, and who have little difficulty understanding that kilometers of queues into Denmark by German tourists in tens of thousands, which we look forward to coming, are then contrasted with the fact that it may be a thousand boyfriends for Danes who have boyfriends from outside the EU. Therefore, it is perhaps just a request here today to give a little bit of hope to this group that when we have to find the right way to deal with our relations with our world, there will also be an opportunity for them to visit here during the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133100	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133101	Now we've done a lot of this reopening of Denmark together, and it looks like it's worked and we can open up most of our society again without the infection getting out of control. The example in Hjørring also shows us how dangerous the virus is still away, and that is why we still think it is a good idea, even as far as borders are concerned, like almost all other countries, to do this gradually and in a controlled manner. But as in all other reopening, we always hope to be able to move things forward, and if things are going well, then we can do even more. That is why, on 31 August, we are no more determined than that our hope is that, on the basis of objective criteria, we will be able to provide a travel guide, in fact both in and out of Denmark, building on objective criteria, depending on the situation both here and there, so that people can travel more freely than is the case today. Our focus would probably initially be on Europe, like many other European countries, and then there are some groups with what we can call worthy of recognition, such as a relationship in which we have loosened quite a lot and it would be natural to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133206	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133215	I would like to start by making a very happy news. That is because today the government is opening up to us shorter school days in our primary school. I think that is positive news, and we are really happy about it in the SF. It has been a wish of the SF for a very long time. Now I know that there are many people who would like to make evaluations of everything possible in relation to the corona and especially of political processes, but I think that the evaluation that is interesting in relation to corona is also about looking at the good experiences we have out there. They're the kids who've had another school day. Many of those who have returned and experienced shorter school days may also have gotten more out of school. When we look at our day care facilities, we have had better standards than we have had for many years, and the children also seem happier and more secure here. The same is true in reality in relation to the Danes' relationship with nature, for they have suddenly discovered it during the corona. So there have also been many good things happening under the corona, while, of course, there is very much awful. I think we can learn from the corona a way to run school in the future. SF's proposal is actually a shorter school day and has been for a long time. We've fought for it. Our proposal has been to shorten the school day by one hour each day and spend the resources you get by it on lowering the class quotient and adding an extra teacher or, for that matter, a teacher in all the Danish classes in the smaller classes. It can sort of go up. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is a serious consideration in the government that we are ready to call for concrete negotiations in the autumn, where shorter school days can be agreed, for example. several hours with two adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133408	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133409	I always try to have an open mind, including as far as the importance of school day is concerned. I do not know whether it is so clear what the experience of the corona is, because many children have also experienced being too little in school during this period and have actually missed their schooling and missed having some structure in school day. So perhaps we should make the effort, and this is probably true both in the public and private sectors, but here I would like to zoom into the public sector to ask what we have all done in terms of experience in the field of children, in the field of school, in the field of health, before jumping to conclusions in a single area. But I will try to have an open mind in this discussion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133458	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133500	It was nice, especially because the government's own minister has proposed that there should be shorter school days. I know it is a request from the SF, but I also know that there are a number of other conciliation parties that are very interested in it. So I hope that negotiations will be convened, and we are ready for that at least. Another thing that we have spent an immense amount of time and effort on in recent weeks, I think, is Denmark's position in relation to the EU's future budget. It's kind of a different ball street, although sometimes you'd like there to have been a school teacher over there. The most recent situation is that we do not even know whether the Left supports whether the European Union should have a budget, which I think is a little absurd. I don't think that's happened for 30 years, and then with a Ellemann at the helm. I'm thinking that sometimes the apple falls a little far from the tree. We are so dependent on having a strong European Union that can push for a global green transition, and so I could be very green because the mandate is very green in relation to EU budgets. Would I like to ask the Prime Minister what alliances the government has entered into and what preparations the government has made to ensure a good green budget? Who are we in this fight with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133613	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133615	Here we stand together with a number of different countries, and this applies both to the countries with which we are currently working very closely in relation to the volume of the budget, which everyone is concerned about in the context of the green transition, but also to large countries such as Spain and France, with which we are discussing a great deal of climate. Moreover, we should not be blind to the fact that a number of other countries in the European Union, which are not normally on the green agenda, are very, very concerned about this. So my experience is actually that we have quite a lot of allies. I would say that it has been echoed and echoed throughout the world that a political majority has adopted a 70-percent objective, and it is very much the merit of the SF, and it also places us quite well in European cooperation. Then I must simply confirm that if there had not been a responsible majority in the Folketing in relation to mandate and the government then chose to follow the approach of the Left, Denmark would actually block the adoption of a budget at all in the European Union, and then European cooperation would completely fall apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133719	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133720	Yes, and that would be absurd at a time when we need the European Union as a global player to such an extent. My last question is in a third direction, because it is about our common nature. I know that I have used it during Corona, and I know that the Prime Minister has used it, and I think that is the case for a great many Danes. In any case, I have met several runners who tell me that they have seen the Prime Minister wandering around in Hareskoven. Nature means something to you. It provides an opportunity for calm, it provides an opportunity for reflection, and in fact the Prime Minister and I have also committed ourselves to an agreement that there we should go to elections with a joint project on biodiversity, where we said we would bring together stakeholders, and they would have 100 days to make their bid on how we could create a nature plan for Denmark. Now it is no secret that more than 100 days have passed since the elections, and I know there has been a coronatide, but even if you withdraw the coronatide, it is a long time. In the SF we are 100% ready to contribute, and we know that the stakeholders are also, so can the Prime Minister reveal when the government will move in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133826	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133828	I would say that if the SF has such spies out and follow my way in nature, they will probably be able to confirm that I have gone on quite a lot of trips and talked on the phone, not least with the country's party leaders along the way in this course, and I think, or we actually know, because it has already been measured that the Danes have used nature to an extent that we may never have done before. It has calmed down, and it is also the place where you could be. It is also a reminder of the decommissioning of Denmark that has been, unlike many other countries, because we have not had a curfew, as it has not been necessary to have it in Denmark; we have been able to get out, we have been able to move, we have been able to be together, and hopefully it has confirmed even more Danes in why Danish nature is so important. And yes, we must move on in the area of biodiversity. I must also acknowledge as Prime Minister after this spring of 2020 that we have not achieved everything we had planned to do. It has not been forgotten, nor has it been deleted from the agenda, but it has been postponed. So let us discuss further together how to ensure this. Then I just want to confirm that the lack of a mandate I actually thought that a mandate had been given by the Left today is a weakening of the European Union, it is not a strengthening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133941	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616133947	Now we have just been through or are actually in the middle of a serious health crisis. A lot of people have been able to work at home and walk in nature and talk on the phone while they were working, and a lot of people have not been able to do so. Some of those with the lowest wages, who already have some of the most grueling jobs, have been in the box of the supermarket, have been driving the buses, have worked hard, have been cleaning, have saved lives, and some of those people have been hard hit, not only by the health crisis, but also by the economic crisis that has come with the corona. Thousands of people have already lost their jobs, and a great many of them are also in the low-paid areas, so we are dealing with a group of people who are both the lowest paid in our society, who are among those who are most at risk of infection in a health crisis and who are most at risk of unemployment in an economic crisis, and then very many of them live in general housing. Losing one's job is especially if one does not have a savings or free value in the house • in itself a major disaster. I think the Prime Minister is very, very aware of that. But right now we are faced with a situation in which, for some of the people who live in general residential areas, it can also mean that you lose your home because we have ghetto legislation, which means that out of several criteria are among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. of the homes in an area suddenly either sold off or demolished. In other words, some of the people who work in the most grueling jobs, who have been most at risk in the context of a health crisis and have lost their job first, are also some of those who can now see a lightcase resulting in both they and their neighbors having to move from their homes. A lot of residents and housing associations have appealed to the government to suspend the ghetto list. Does the government not agree that this is an unreasonable consequence of the corona crisis for those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134204	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134206	In other words, if we now imagined that the Corona was a direct consequence of the fact that for a short period there was an over-representation of citizens, among other things. With a non-western background in vulnerable residential areas which were outside the labour market, I would perhaps tend to say yes, but that is not what we are talking about at all. We are talking about 40 years of failed policy. That's what we're talking about. We are not talking about a snapshot here, we are talking about 40 years, when, unfortunately, we as a society, with the acceptance of changing governments, have passively or actively accepted that the general housing sector has had to assume much greater responsibility, both socially and in terms of integration, than any other area in this society, and where you today have residential areas, where it is common not to go to work, where social control is exercised, where you have to listen carefully to Danish words, etc. It's not a snapshot. This is, in my view, one of the biggest problems we have in this country, and that is why I do not think it is the Corona situation that should decide whether or not to deal with the problems of vulnerable residential areas and ensure that there is a greater spread, not least of ethnic minorities, in this society in terms of housing policy. For housing policy sits in the daily institutions and schools and in subsequent opportunities to get employment and break the boring circle in which many families find themselves. So if it was a snapshot, maybe yes, but we are not talking about 40 years of failed politics, and fortunately we are a number of parties who agree to get something done about it, and we are going to stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134345	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134346	I'm sorry, but that's just not right. It is precisely a snapshot that determines whether some specific residential areas tip in relation to that border, which a majority of people have set, and whether one gets a chance to work to pull a residential area in a better direction, for yes, there are a lot of problems in many places, or whether one tips over the magical border and then suddenly has to tear down housing and sell off instead of working to make things better. It's a snapshot that does it, and it's completely in contrast to all other areas of this society where we've given a breath. We have told the unemployed: Death period during the benefit period these months do not apply. We have said to the business community: here! Money for pay, for fixed expenses, for everything. We have told the aviation industry and museums that this snapshot of an economic crisis that hits so hard and so fast is no cause. Why should the consequences not be mitigated for the very people who live in general residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134456	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134458	But I do not think it is a question of whether it tips precisely, i.e. that that is the problem. To put it bluntly: whether you are a little on one side or a little on the other side, the problems in those areas are the same. And now I have been following the integration policy and have also had different positions than I have today, at least for 25 years. And no matter what has been tried out by hearty projects and by the way said here: which has cost billions of dollars, we have not succeeded in breaking the real, really dangerous development that has taken place in our society. On the contrary, it has only got worse; it is only and I think it is a huge problem that there are areas in Denmark where I do not come myself and where I would not dare to let my own children go at night. I cannot defend that in our society. That is why we need to continue the development that is under way, where people who are challenged for one or the other or the third reason are not left to themselves and other people who are in a similar situation. In other words, the rest of the country will have to assume greater responsibility, and it cannot only be the general housing sector that will have to undertake an integration task.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134602	Mrs Pernille Skipper for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134604	Well, I'm sorry, it's not gonna last. After all, the Prime Minister is part of the majority which says that when you reach a certain point, it must result in demolitions. One might say that uh, we have to hold on to that, but for the people who live in the properties that need to be demolished or sold off, this is not just thecollateral damage. It is a problem on top of many other problems, which also have something to do with classes in our society which have something to do with who is the lowest paid. One of the criteria is unemployment. That's why they're falling. That's why the homes need to be demolished. That is because there are a lot of people who have lost their jobs, but that is not something they can do for. After all, it is neither an expression of a particular culture or religion nor of laziness or anything else. It is an expression of the fact that corona has hit Denmark and the whole world and has led to an economic crisis. It's from the outside, just like it is for everyone else. Why do they have to be punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134700	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134703	First of all, I do not recognise that the fact that we want a country that is more closely linked is to punish people, actually quite the opposite. The unemployment which is a problem in the vulnerable residential areas or ghettos, as some call it, is not corona unemployment. After all, it is a structural stand outside the labour market that we have seen for decades. Well, we're talking, among other things. on women with a non-Western background who have not been on the labour market for 25 years. They were not on the labour market until corona, and some of them still do not want to enter the labour market. After all, it is a structural problem that you have too many people who do not know our language; that there is social control; that there is too much crime; that there are too many people who are not part of the labour market. This does not mean that in those areas too there are plenty of people who go to work and behave and are just as tired of crime as asking and answering is. But the challenges in these residential areas are structural. They've been handed down from decade to decade. We must be careful not to put this at risk because of a specific situation which I recognise makes the situation worse. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134805	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616134813	Thank you. After all, the European Union is an incredibly important association of countries that work together on many and many things. Danish membership of the EU has meant the world for Danish jobs, for Danish companies, it is something that has made us richer, it is something that has created jobs. When we work together in the European Union, for example. agreeing on energy efficiency requirements, Danish companies stand ready and can sell even more of their products. That is why it is important for us that the mandate given to the government today should also be given. And that mandate should be given because the government must, of course, have the opportunity to take down and negotiate. I also see what is in the mandate, in line with what the previous government stood for, namely moderation and that it should not run away in a debate on the next seven years' budget. What is crucial for us is that in the mandate that has been given, the European Union is prevented from being able to levy new taxes directly on citizens and businesses. We think this is very important and essential. However, regardless of what approach one has to it in relation to debates on mandate or not and to the European political issue I would just like to ask the Prime Minister here today to confirm that in the past, the present and future it is the government that is in office at all times who is solely responsible for financing what it may cost, there should be an extra bill. It has absolutely nothing to do with a mandate; it has nothing to do with who is responsible for the financial law in force at all times. I have never heard that it has been otherwise, and I think it is important now that we are in a room where the public is following with confirmation that this is not about anything with funding, but that it is the government that is responsible and that those who give mandate are not responsible at any time for the financing of any additional bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135032	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135034	I can confirm that. And I could then sit down again. However, it is not now because I have to stand here and reveal the discussions that took place in the Social Democratic Party five years ago when we had just started life in opposition. However, if I am going to open a door anyway, I think it is the case that when you do that, there are always discussions about how to organise the work towards the new government. And that is where we chose, and it is at cost that we make the choice, we know it well, at least in the short run, that when it comes to foreign policy and security policy and for our part also the legal policy; and then we actually added the immigration policy as something new, one can then discuss where it is located; we think it is well placed in that company; just as far as Denmark is concerned, there must not be slings in the waltz. And with regard to the negotiation of a budget: it is quite uninteresting which government sits, because it is a coincidence in Denmark. We tend to change governments in this country, too, often, and it is quite random, in that it is seven-year budgets, who is responsible for negotiating that budget in place. And that is why you take care of Denmark's interests and not your own interests: when it comes to foreign policy and this is where it comes to security policy, when it comes to legal policy, you should refrain from ordinary political tricks and schnapps and put Denmark's interests first. And I think that is what happened, at least for a number of parties today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135210	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135211	Thank you. I am going to go to another subject, because this can be discussed for several days, and these are exciting discussions. But let us go a little closer: it was a pleasure to see how the cars kept in line overnight until Monday at the Danish-German border. It's a pleasure when there are so many people who just can't wait to come up and enjoy the joys of our homeland. It is good for our tourism industry, it is good for our shops, it is good for our restaurants, it is good for very much that it has come there. Now I understand that the government is on its way with something. But how soon does the PM expect it to go? Are we talking only about the European Union? Are we also speaking outside the European Union? In essence, then, there are some companies at home which are so marked by the fact that the borders are as relatively closed as they are. Because no matter how much we discuss, the borders are still pretty closed, to put it nicely. And Danish business, large and small, needs us to open up much more to travellers and to tourism. How far are we with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135316	This is so little in the light of the discussion I had earlier with Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard. And I would like to stress first of all that, as far as business travel is concerned, we have opened up, and this has been important, not only for the government, but also for many of the parties of the Folketing. What we are talking about now is whether we can open up further than what we have already done. I would also like to stress that the vast majority of countries, with the exception of Sweden, have opted for a gradual reopening of borders. No one has just opened their borders, and as recently as today we have received the news that it appears that a number of citizens have come infected on a plane from Pakistan to Denmark. And it shows something about how, of course, you have to think about how to do this. Of course, we would very much like to be able to open up the borders further and we would like to be allowed to speak to the Name before we publish our thoughts in such a direct way. However, we have also been talking about whether we can establish objective criteria for the disease situation in the country, and this can then be reflected in the fact that you can both go in and out. That is one of the things we are looking at, and of course it should be by 31 August.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135426	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135428	Now we have made an agreement here the night to Monday about holiday money and a lot of other things. We'll phase out the aid packages, and we'll put something else in place. Some of the things I have no doubt about for a moment mean a great deal to the Danish business community for restaurants, for hotels, for the various companies are the restrictions we still have. I do not think I am saying too much when I tell you that when I asked the Minister for Finance at such a bilateral meeting whether these restrictions could not be included in the discussions, because they matter a lot, I got the answer that it was something that the party leaders and the Prime Minister had negotiated and that we should probably continue there. I think that's fair enough. But when are we going to continue this? I mean, I don't think I can meet any human being in this country who is able to explain the guidelines that exist in the various areas, and at some point we have to go further, where it will be easier for the cafes, where it will be easier for the hotels, where it will be easier for the restaurants. When's the PM's idea that we should get on with it? Because the restrictions there are still hold back many.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135539	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135541	In fact, I think we have refrained from having a political debate on the guidelines, what I think has been wise. In my view, it will have to be in the partnership that has actually been operating for a long time, with, of course, health authorities on the one hand and those responsible for the activity that is going on, on the other. I do not want us, as politicians, to sit and decide whether there should be 1 m, 11⁄2 m or 2 m between us. I would say that this is now my impression and perhaps I myself have been a little actively chosen to be out eating sometimes here lately, both because I would like to support it, but of course also to hear how things are going • that things are actually going surprisingly well at restaurants and cafes, for example, to get the activities going again, even if there are guidelines. And here, of course, I will also listen very much to the health authorities, because the closer we get to each other and the less clean there is, i.e. if there are no washed hands, sprited off and the things, the greater the risk of the infection getting out of control. So I would very much hate to submit to a direct political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135644	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135652	Thank you. The government has decided to send a check for 1,000 kroner. for e.g. non-Western immigrants and descendants who live more or less permanently on public support. There are currently approx. 32,000 non-western immigrants and descendants in the cash aid system. Why do they need more money? Why Danes have to go to work and pay taxes so that the Prime Minister can send a check of 1,000 DKK. to people who do not themselves provide any • people who in far too many cases have never contributed and are not doing so? I understand from the government that it is because they are expected to spend the money, and I guess there are others who can find out; I wonder if that is one of the worst arguments at all for giving more money to non-western immigrants and descendants. There are, for example: 15,000 with Danish origin, which is stuck in the hopeless resource sequences in the job centres. These are the people whom the Prime Minister calls Arne Danes, whom the Prime Minister has promised help, but who have not yet seen the shadow of a solution. They are now receiving the same amount as migrants and immigrants. There are also 300,000 sole proprietorships, many of which fight a warring battle for survival with long days, short holidays and low earnings. Those people supply lots of value, but they often do not earn so much themselves. They could have been sent a check, instead of begging unproductive immigrants and descendants, and lurking me if the money would not have fallen in a dry place; they should probably have been sent into circulation. So my question is about fairness and justice. The government has decided to send a check for 1,000 kroner. to non-western immigrants and descendants who live more or less on permanent public support: why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135847	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616135849	In fact, I think I would just like to take up the word'reasonable' because, for the sake of the Danes who are listening with, we should not repeat what an agreement has been made on. If you only listen to this, it sounds like the government, along with a number of parties, has specifically chosen to send 1,000 kroner. for Danes with non-western background. That is simply not true. A broad political agreement has been reached focusing on exports and the payment of holiday money, and then there is agreement that those people who for various reasons are not part of the labour market can get 1,000 DKK. That is what we are talking about, and there is simply no reasonable reason to interpret it in the way we are talking about here. It is so true that some of those on transfer income do not have an original Danish background. But, I'm just trying to do a thought experiment, should you have sat down and made a political agreement that is not really about transferring money, but about stimulating demand. That is what has been agreed on; it is not about everything else and said that all those who do not receive holiday money because they are not part of the labour market, but instead are on a transfer income for various reasons, should have 1,000 DKK unless they have an ethnic minority background? Was that the decision we should have made? I would, I have to be honest and say, think was a completely wild decision. This is not about integration or anything else; it is about stimulating the Danish economy. But should you have made that decision, that is to say, to give 1,000 kroner. to people with original Danish background, but not to others?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140020	I think it would be a very good idea to make it clear that when you are in Denmark, our welfare system is for Danes and not for foreigners. So yes, I thought that was a very good idea, and we would have supported that in New Citizens. But that answer then forces me to ask a more fundamental question. Does the Prime Minister think that migrants and immigrants should receive more and more public benefits paid from Danish tax money, or should benefits to foreigners and immigrants generally be fewer and lower? The answer should be obvious, but I am genuinely in doubt, and I will be even more so after the answer I have received here today, because in this assembly the government has only made provision for increasing the benefits and giving them to more foreigners. Three times the government has poured out more money for that purpose. Zero proposals for fewer benefits. No proposal for lower benefits. When will the Minister ensure that public services to non-western immigrants and their descendants are reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140121	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140122	Now, in fact, Mrs Pernille Vermund and I often agree on quite a lot of things. I'm just gonna have to finish this discussion, because I just need to understand. If we have a man who has come here from somewhere, has worked for 36 years on the Danish labour market, maybe had no sick days, paid his taxes, went to the elections, trained some football down at the club, or what he has done, let's say that he has been working for 36 years; maybe he has even had corona because he drives a bus, we should have sat there the other night and said: You, like you, even if you have been on the Danish labour market for 30-40 years and have contributed everything you have been able to, you shouldn't have got 1,000 kroner.? Is that the choice we should have made? I think that's crazy. We can easily have a discussion about benefits. I am not in favour of simply setting up benefits. I think we have made a huge mistake, for example. in the 1980s and 1990s to have high benefits and also to accept that too many have not entered our labour market, but there are plenty of people with a minority background who are working hard for this society that goes to work and does everything they have to do. Shouldn't the guy who might be on sickness benefit after 36 years have had the 1,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140230	Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140231	But I do believe that this is precisely the challenge for the Social Democratic Party at the moment. You say all the right things, but you do all the wrong things, because you keep raising benefits to non-western immigrants and descendants, in other words, paying Danish tax dollars to people who come here and, for an too large part, do not contribute to the community. But leave it. The last question is about the EU and time is running out. A few months ago, there was no doubt in the Social Democratic Party and the Prime Minister that the EU budget should be kept in order. The government actually made a big deal out of the fact that they had allied themselves with other countries in a savings gang. The government drew the Danes' attention to the fact that the EU budget must be adopted unanimously. It's one of the few places where we can still stand when the others want to run. New Citizens supported the government in that approach. The budget should be kept down, if necessary with a Danish veto. It didn't last long, and I wonder why Danes have to pay more, when the Danes are already the ones who work hardest in it and pay the highest tax? In southern Europe, on average, fewer hours are worked than in Denmark. In southern Europe, the average retirement age is lower. Women's participation in the labour market is lower; welfare is financed by loans and runs with high deficits. So where is the reasonableness of the Danes having to pay more before the South Europeans have put their own house in order?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140352	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140354	I think there are two things in this. One is that I believe basically that we should keep the budget in order, that is what we are fighting for. We had hoped to have a broad mandate from the Danish Parliament to take that fight, and I still hope so, because that is what serves Denmark's interests best; whether we do not disagree. And I still think it is fundamentally unfair that we should have a budget that grows out there when other countries have not taken any of the same decisions. Veto, we simply do not agree, because I would not recommend that Denmark block Europe from having a budget. The risk that Europe would collapse is simply too great. I would just like to get an answer to the question I asked before: If a man who has worked in Denmark for 36 years and paid his tax and maybe even been a member of an unemployment insurance fund, is now on sickness benefit, perhaps for a short period of time, one should have picked him out and said specifically: You must not get the 1,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140457	Thank you, but this is not the time, because the question is over. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140507	Well, that's a future I'll look forward to, I guess. Yes, as far as the economic question is concerned, I think that would be quite reasonable. Then the truth came for a day. It creates headlines, breaking news. Laughter Time is passing and I simply have to ask my question too. President. - The next item is the report (Doc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140530	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140532	This Sunday I thought of the justice logic that prevails in kindergartens. There is such a special kindergarten justice: if Peter has laid chocolate in the food package, then Lise must also have laid chocolate, otherwise it is a pity for Lise. This is also a bit of the logic that seems to have trumped through in the agreement that the government made this weekend with the Red Support Parties, and for some reason there were also some bourgeois parties who thought that this was a fantastic agreement, where one among other things. agreed that a thousand kroner should be given. as such a one-off payment, a check, to all the Danes who are outside the labour market. The logic seems to be that because people who have earned their own money and who have been forced to save them and who have had their holiday money seized get part of this money back, others who have not earned their own money must also have a check, otherwise it is a pity for them. That is what seems to be the logic, and it has the unfortunate consequence and the absurdity, I think that all those who then go to work and have to pay this bill should actually earn 2,000 kroner. and then deliver 1,000 kroner. in tax, which one can then pass on to those who are not at work. There I would like to hear the Prime Minister: What is the wise thing in that way to put 1,000 kroner? in the locating of people outside the labour market, and what is it reasonable that those who go to work should actually pay for those who do not go to work just because there is a corona crisis? It is not the case that those outside the labour market have been economically affected by the corona crisis, so there has to be some compensation for them. So what's the fair thing in this deal, and what's the wise thing about it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140717	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140718	I am wondering what is really the wise thing or, for that matter, the reasonable thing to do about trying to separate us as a population in this situation. Why create a slightly artificial contrast between those outside the labour market and those in the labour market? So, quite a lot of those outside the labour market have been in the labour market. It's the country's pensioners we're talking about. You may be on sickness benefit because of an accident at work. After all, there are all kinds of conditions. Those who have lost their jobs, who also now get the 1,000 kroner, would wish that they were still part of the workforce. Now they've gone out because of corona. Why the Contradiction? I am taking it a little further, because I do not believe that we can make a wise recovery on top of a corona crisis if each of us adheres to our party political point of departure. I simply do not think it will be creative capacity enough. My recommendation will be in such an extraordinary situation that the discussion is a little more pragmatic than what I think is going on in this Chamber today. That is certainly our approach. That is why we do not reject the fact that tax relief or tax relief can be part of it. Why reject it? We are in an extraordinary situation, and that is where we will need to think creatively. I think that was done in the Ministry of Finance together the other night with an agreement that deals with many different things at the same time. But I do not think Denmark needs this contradiction; in fact, I think we need the opposite in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140852	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616140853	But that was not really an answer to the question. Well, the government has suggested that those who go to work should pay 1,000 kroner. through the tax to those outside the labour market just because they are outside the labour market and because there is a corona crisis. And yes, I think that is unreasonable, so you have to ask people who go to work to hand over this check to people who are outside the labour market, because there is nothing factual to suggest that this is a good idea. And it is not the case that people have been economically affected by the corona crisis if they are on cash benefits or anything like that. If they became unemployed during the crisis, they will also receive their holiday money, because they have earned holiday money the previous year. So I think it is somewhere that it is the government that has to explain the reasonableness of it, instead of explaining why it is unreasonable. That is the question I would like to have answered, namely: what is the reasonable thing for people outside the labour market to have an extra check? And it can only be paid by those who go to work; so they must then return more, as it were, in goose eyes. I therefore agree that we should be pragmatic, but I do not think that there is anything pragmatic about taking money from people who go to work and giving it to them outside the labour market just because they are outside the labour market. They say, "Here you go, here's 1,000 kroner." There is no objective reason for this. That is more ideological than it is pragmatic unless there is a wise reason for it, that is to say that there is something factual behind it, but then I would like to hear it from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141000	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141001	We can easily find that argument. For the agreement made in the Ministry of Finance is about one thing: to stimulate demand, in other words to make a contribution to a Danish economy which, incidentally, seems to be doing better than we feared. I think that is quite important to say, because sometimes, when you listen to the debate here, it may sound as if everything is in the freezer, but that is actually not the case. We've done well, at least the first round of corona. We are also beginning to see this broader in our society. That is also the idea of both the holiday money and the 1,000 DKK, namely to support a demand out there, and I think you can easily find studies in economic theory that will confirm that the lower the income people have, the greater the tendency is also to translate a cash payout or in a similar way into something that is directly demand-related.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141101	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141101-2	There I would just like to refer to the warning that came from several economists up to these debates, which stated that Denmark is not in a consumer crisis. There is really little need to stimulate demand in the economy, because private consumption is returning to pre-crisis levels. Carl-Johan Dalgaard, whom we have otherwise consulted in this crisis, says that he does not consider that the time is right, that is, the need for a budget rain. And the former chief wiseman, Michael Svarer, says: The pay compensation scheme runs over the summer, and it helps stimulate the economy. That is why I see no urgent need for a lot of money to be put into the economy right now. So what the economists are saying is that it is not really wise and that there is no need for it. What is the crisis is that we do not make the money we did before the crisis. It is basically a production crisis and we need to get growth going. Yet it is chosen to say that all people who are on transfer income should have just paid 1,000 kroner. in hand, even if economists say that there is no need to stimulate the economy in this way. Therefore, I think it is still reasonable to ask for an answer to: What is it reasonable for people to go to work, earn 2,000 kr., deliver 1,000 kr. in tax to give them quite generously to people who are outside the labour market? I don't see what's fair in it. I still miss an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141210	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141212	Now, after all, it will be a linguistic enchantment to call this a money rain over the Danes. I therefore agree with the economic analysis that, with what we have seen in recent consumption here, it would be wrong to make such massive support on the consumption side. In fact, I do not think that is what has happened. I think the agreement that has been made is balanced and wise. I would just like to recommend that you do not take out a single element, because I think that what has actually characterized both the temporary relief packages, but also the agreement on phasing out, is that the Folketing has been able to have an eye on many different places. We have held hands under each other together in this situation. And I really think that the idea that we are also jointly stimulating the economy is actually quite good and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141307	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141315	During the last Question Time I asked the Prime Minister, related to the experience we have gained during the Corona crisis, about reduced working hours and 30-hour working week. I asked what openings could be in relation to moving forward with the debate on reducing working time with the social partners. Unfortunately, I think it was such a yes-no discussion in relation to reduced working hours. It is a bit of a pity, because reduced working hours, possibly 30-hour working weeks, also have some major advantages. I hope to be able to discuss them with the Prime Minister as well, because this is not an agenda that is simply being shut down. First of all, there are a few of the answers given by the Prime Minister during the previous Question Time, which I would like to clarify. I have been asked a number of questions about two things in particular, where people are discussing what the Prime Minister might think. The first is that the Prime Minister replied: Denmark is a rich country because we work; that father and mother do it. The Prime Minister continued: if we want to work less, we will become poorer. The alternative is entirely in agreement with that, that is, if we all work less, we will, of course, become poorer. But is it the same as getting poorer if we reduce working hours? After all, the Social Democratic Party itself has ensured that working time from 1900 to today has been reduced by 40%, and this has happened without us actually becoming poorer. In addition, productivity per head of population is low. working hours highest in countries with the shortest working hours. In France and England, where working hours are roughly equivalent to the Danish, productivity is as gross domestic product per head of population. working hours from 1950 to 2015 increased by 450 per cent. In England, where working hours are 20%. for longer, gross domestic product per head of population is per head of population. hours of work during the same period only increased by 250 per cent. And in Denmark, several companies that have introduced 30-hour working week can confirm that productivity is unchanged. Would the Prime Minister not agree that reduced working hours do not necessarily reduce productivity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141518	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141519	First of all, I would like to say that I do not actually think that we have a long working week in Denmark. For me, 37 hours is not a long week of work. This is a completely different discussion. I just had to understand what was said. But basically I do not share the view that 37 hours a week is a long week of work. Basically, I do not share that. I think it is a completely different discussion when we go back to the beginning of the 1900s. On the other hand, I cannot stand by and say that one cannot imagine that one can have a shorter working week and at the same time increase productivity, because there are plenty of examples of this. I myself have read with great interest the book called "Pseudowork," written by a few Danish anthropologists who in that book show that the time that is bought mostly on the web worldwide is what is at the different times is Monday morning and morning when people are supposed to be at work. So it can be said that if people do not deal with networks when they are at work, then it increases productivity. Just as an example. So yes, I actually think you can raise productivity, but I don't think that's related to whether we have a 37-hour week or a 30-hour week. I think that has something more to do with how to organise the work. Of course, I think that discussion is really, really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141648	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141650	Thank you. My second question is about the honour of working or the joy of working or the value of working. Here the Prime Minister mentioned a few times the honour of working in his previous answer to my question about reduced working hours. The Prime Minister said, among other things:: Generally speaking, I think it is a good idea to go to work, also like 37 hours if you can, and that you take pride in it. I just want to hear more about it, because there are several of our followers here who would like to hear the Prime Minister clarify it. Is it not an honor to be a flex worker or perhaps to work a few spare hours a week as an early retirement or to stand voluntarily in the sausage stall for the sports event or to be a voluntary visiting friend? Does the Prime Minister think that the honour is linked to a certain number of hours, or should we perhaps extend the concept of work a little, even to say that work should also be judged on the value it creates?
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141750	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141751	Honor is such a strange word and concept, but on the question of whether honour relates to a particular number of working hours, the answer is of course no. Now some of the reforms in which I myself have been involved have been very reviled, but some of the things I actually think most people agree on are working are the small flex jobs, that is to say, that we allowed people to be in flex jobs too, and even for a few hours, which allowed people who have been outside the labour market, for some, always or at least for a long time, to have been able to gain access to the labour market. Whether it's 2 hours or 10 or 20 hours, I think it's kind of minor. I know, of course, how much quality of life it gives to be allowed to be part of a working community and thus to be useful, and I am very, very aware that not all people are in a life situation where you can. And you're not a poorer person, and you shouldn't believe in those who say you are because you can't work, but we need children and young people who grow up in Denmark to basically think: I'm going out, and I'm going to contribute to this society, and I'm going to support myself. We need that spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141902	Torsten Gejl, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616141903	Thank you for that clarification. The last question is of course from one of our Members, and this is about George Floyd's tragic death in the United States, where an extreme arrest led to Mr. Floyd died. This has led to violent discussions and demonstrations throughout the world, and the discussion has also come to Denmark. We are discussing whether the text under certain statues should be redeclared whether street names should be changed when they present black parts of our history. The alternative to that debate is an anti-racist action plan to which one of our members would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention. This is where we propose, for example. to investigate racism and discrimination in a national context and that individual citizens should be able to raise cases of racism. It may be difficult to have a case of racist utterances brought before the courts, because it is the prosecution that decides whether the case should be tried. So the question is whether the Prime Minister agrees that that decision might have to be taken by the courts. Our Member would also like to ask whether the Prime Minister is aware of the anti-racist action plan of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142009	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142009-2	Now we are talking under ministerial responsibility, and that weighs a little bit, because if we did not, we would probably have sneaked away a little from the last question, but I must be honest in saying that I am not so in its specific wording. But I can nod to say that racism is a problem and that it is also a problem that we must combat and that we must oppose. I think that we should do it in the Danish way, where we move positions and values together from what it was once, to where we are today, how far, the vast majority of Danes are not racists and could not dream of being so and, moreover, distance themselves from it. I think it is quite appropriate to discuss what further initiatives can be taken, but I think that when we are in touch with such fundamental values, each of us in a strong community of values must have the right place in respect for each other and, of course, there is no room for racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142119	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and thank the Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142130	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 201 (Proposal for a law on the early warning of holidays during the extended compensation period). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142136	No amendments have been tabled. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200616142159	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 14.30, where we start with votes.
