ParlaMint-DK_20200228100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions I will not read out the titles: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 128 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act) and Bill No. L 129 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Law on access to health care, Law on the authorisation of healthcare professionals and on health professions and the Law on medical and dental professionals responsible for business (Creation of the Board of Appeals for Supervision and the Advisory Committee on Supervision, statutory regulation of the Professional Forum on Patient Safety, increased protection of persons by reporting accidental incidents, requirements for instructions, language requirements for health professionals, simplification of the rules on doctors and dentists in charge of business, exemption from the deadline for the submission of applications for authorisation as a contact lens, etc.)). Andreas Steenberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of self-payment for interpreting services in the health sector). Carl Valentin (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on labelling for waste sorting). Signe Munk (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the certification of firewood, chips and wood pellets for energy purposes). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the purchase by private individuals of CO2 Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the organisation of public energy planning based on the use of nuclear energy). Nils Sjøberg (RV), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Christian Juhl (EL), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on financial support for the social work of the German minority). Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), Heidi Bank (V) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a working party to ensure proper conditions for prostitutes). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to protection of all young people previously placed in care). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of legal certainty in parental competence studies). Heidi Bank (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving the rights of tenants by strengthening the rent boards). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of transparency on public consultation reports). Susanne Zimmer (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on green option in all public kitchens). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of an updated version of the investigation of power). Stén Knuth (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on strengthening the voluntary and voluntary sector in Denmark). Rosa Lund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Freedom Commission). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 141 (Proposal for a resolution on initiatives to combat madness), motion for a resolution No. Β 146 (Proposal for a resolution on the compensation of surviving children, regardless of their age and place of residence) and motion for a resolution No. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of residence permits on receipt of public support). Per Larsen (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ensuring a family doctor for all Danes). Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the adoption law so as to recognise dual-national adopters). Nils Sjøberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the citizenship of young people born and raised in Denmark). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the division of the draft law on citizenship into several legislative proposals by regions). Hans Andersen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish full cash benefits requirements). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG): Request no. F 52 (Will the government explain the level of right-wing extremist and right-wing national politically motivated harassment, violence and terrorism in Denmark and Europe and, on that basis, explain what the government intends to do in this regard?). Jacob Jensen (V) and Karsten Lauritzen (V): Hasteforskning nr. F 53 (What does the government intend to do to deal with the record rainfall that has resulted in massive flooding in several parts of the country?). The title of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan 2020. 8. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228100308	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228100331	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking the promoters who have raised the citizens' proposal to abolish the requirement for the freezing of holiday allowances during the transitional year towards the entry into force of the new holiday law on 1 September of this year. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who, on behalf of the citizens' motion for a resolution, have chosen to table the motion as a motion for a resolution. In my view, it is an expression of a healthy democratic culture that we are discussing today an issue which concerns quite a lot of employees. With this resolution, a large group of citizens have proposed to amend the holiday law so that the freezing of holiday money in the fund Employees' holiday funds during the transitional year is lifted. The proposers stress that it is the citizens' money and that they feel placed under administration. Furthermore, the proposers stress that there will be a lack of holiday days in the summer of 2020. First of all, I would like to emphasise that a very large majority in the Folketing is behind the new holiday law and the transition to it. It is based, among other things, on: in a desire for a holiday law that is better suited to the way in which the labour market is now organised than it seemed over 80 years ago, where the current holiday law is more or less from. With the new holiday law, we will have a simultaneous holiday, so that, immediately after you have earned your holiday, you can take the holiday. This is a very great step forward for new people in the labour market and for those who have been temporarily away from it. In order to move smoothly from the existing holiday law to the new holiday law, it has been necessary to make a transitional arrangement. The transitional regime means, inter alia, that there is an abbreviated holiday year prior to the entry into force of the new holiday law on 1 September 2020. The abbreviated holiday year runs from 1 May to 31 August 2020, i.e. over the summer holidays. Holidays can be held during that period with the almost 17 holiday days earned during the period from 1 January to 31 August 2019. That's enough holiday days for three weeks of summer holidays. If you want a longer holiday in the summer of 2020, it takes a little planning. You can, for example. transfer holiday days from previous holiday years. Individuals will also be able to have holiday holidays on the basis of an agreement that can be used here. After all, everyone earns new holidays from 1 September, which can be held immediately after the harvest. The new holiday law has been created following a thorough preparatory work drawn up with the participation of the social partners in the Holiday Law Committee. When the rules on the acquisition and organisation of holidays change as fundamentally for the entire Danish labour market, it has been very important to get all considerations elucidated from several angles and handled as well as possible. The Committee unanimously recommended the new holiday law and the transition to it, including the rules on the saving of holiday money from employees' holiday funds. The Committee considered that the model of saving up to one year's holiday money was the best model for both employees and employers. In my view, this is also the best solution we could come up with to a rather complicated issue. If we went straight to the contemporary holiday without a transitional period of saving holiday money, employees would have the first year of the new rules up to 10 weeks' holiday. This would be untenable both for the economy and for the employers' economy. The scheme retains, as far as possible, the vacation pattern during the transitional year, while retaining as an employee the right to the vacation allowance earned. So you are not cheated on the holiday money you earned during the freezing period. Specifically, the freezing period means that the holiday money earned from 1 September 2019 to 31 August 2020 will become a savings from the fund Employees' holiday funds. The savings are paid when you reach the retirement age or leave the labour market. We must remember that the model of saving holiday money is part of an overall solution. There will also be a risk that the economy will become overheated without a transitional period. In the case of savings of holiday money and a ripple payment by retirement, we enter the new holiday law flexibly. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Once again, I would like to thank you for the proposal and for allowing us again to sign for the great and thorough work done by the Committee on Holidays. It also reflects the joint responsibility of the social partners for creating solutions that benefit the whole labour market. The fact that virtually the whole Danish Parliament supported the law in January 2018 is also a good sign that there is a solid and well-worked law with long durability. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228100823	There are no brief comments. That is why we thank the Minister for Employment. We shall now proceed to the debate, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228100839	I would just like to say that the Minister has described this proposal quite carefully and why the holiday law was amended at the time, and that is why I would just like to say why the Social Democratic Party cannot support this citizens' proposal to pay the frozen funds. However, I would like to start by thanking all the people who have supported this proposal. I would like to start by thanking those who have led it, and those who are sitting in the living rooms, I am nodding, because they are here today. Thank you very much for that, because it is also part of democracy that we have the opportunity to do so, and that also helps us to discuss something that is so important: a new holiday law starting this year. It is an extremely difficult law, and in particular the transitional year is very, very complicated. That is why it is also important to me that it has just been the social partners who have discussed it, who have examined it and taken a decision in full agreement. It is a decision that ensures that employers ensure that their members do not have major financial problems and that employees ensure that their holiday conditions do not deteriorate. But you might ask yourself who is actually better at securing it than those chosen by employers and employees themselves. It would be much more uncertain if it were to happen politically, because it would depend on the political majority and not on the reality out there, as these parties know better than others. That is why I am extremely pleased that the parties elected by their members have led this resolution, which a large political majority has also supported from the outset. If we now pull ashore because there is some opposition to the individual parts of the agreement between the parties, then we can and will risk that the parties no longer want to enter important negotiations again. If just one proposal is taken out, it can actually knock over a whole house of cards in a huge debate, and it will not in the long term benefit anyone, nor the ordinary employee, if we make these negotiations more difficult in the future. Then there is another issue which is at least as important to us Socialists and which the Minister also mentioned. If we adopt this proposal, companies will have to pay double vacation this year, i.e. 10 weeks instead of 5 weeks, because you have to be able to take a holiday for what you earned last year and what you earn this year. It is estimated that it will cost 75 billion. kr. for enterprises which are equal to 7%. of the total wage bill of the enterprises. This will mean that very many companies will experience liquidity problems. Many will be slowed down in development and many of the small businesses will get very difficult economically and some of them may even close down. This could lead to a huge loss of jobs, a huge loss for ordinary workers and a huge loss for society. That is why I believe that the social partners have acted quite rightly, and thank you very much for that. There is an agreement that ensures that employees get their holidays and that companies can continue with a high level of employment. I understand that you would like to have paid out the money you have earned so that you can decide for yourself where they are going who can not understand it? That is why this debate is also important, so thank you very much. But that is why the Social Democrats are also voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101222	There is a brief comment, and it is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101225	I would like to ask whether there is nothing curious about the fact that, in practice, it provides employers with a liquidity that they can speculate on for many, many years when you freeze the money in the way you do. It is, of course, a question of employers having the resources which are actually the employees and which they can use to invest and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101252	What has been done here has been a transitional arrangement, because it is clear that this is something that has been discussed a great deal. And in the long term, over the 60 years, companies will no longer have this room for manoeuvre, because after the 60 years, they will be fully spent on contemporary holidays, and then all those who have been on the labour market and have earned their holidays will no longer be there. But this has simply been deliberately taken into account by the parties, in other words the employees and employers, in order to ensure that we do not find ourselves in the situation that I pointed out, namely that the companies will have major problems and that it will mean job losses. And so we are very concerned about the social democracy. We are very concerned that companies can still develop and create new jobs, so that ordinary employees can still have a job so that parents can go to work. I simply cannot see through the consequences of this and therefore support the decision taken by the social partners I think it is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101355	Jette Gottlieb, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101356	Well, when you look at the possibility of using the savings • the rapporteur mentions even the 60 years • you can see that the agreement is about employers getting some benefits while the workers get nothing but that those who are young now are told that they can have their money in 60 years' time. I might well know what logic it is that says that it is the employers who should be allowed to trade with those funds, and not the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101426	The fact that the workers do not get anything is actually not quite right. If you look at such people as Mrs Jette Gottlieb and myself, who have been on the labour market for a whole lifetime since we were very young, then we do not lose anything when we leave, because when we retire, we will still have the money we have earned in the past because they have been frozen. So we're not losing anything. The workers get exactly the same thing they've got so far. However, those who win are the young people who have had to wait up to 16 months before they have been able to get vacation. They are the ones who have not been temporarily away from the labour market. They win, and I think that's really, really good. So it is not true that the workers get nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101508	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101518	Thank you. I'm gonna take the platform down again. It is always a pleasure to have to deal with a citizens' proposal which has now become a motion for a resolution and which, of course, comes directly from citizens who are committed and who are taking part in the public debate. I understand that you can be unsure about how the new holiday law will work. The Minister has carefully examined the background and the individual elements of the new holiday law and commented on the transition period. I also think that, as politicians, we have a duty to find a model that benefits all parties in which employees are guaranteed their entitlement to holiday money without a higher cost to employers. And I think the new holiday law has actually succeeded. In this context, I would like to congratulate the social partners on the great work that has been done in connection with the Holiday Law Committee, a work which has ensured a much more flexible, fair and transparent holiday law, whether you are new to the labour market or whether you have been there for many years. If we are to follow this proposal that we are discussing today, then employers will have to pay 75 billion. kr. by 1 September of this year. This will undoubtedly lead to many small and medium-sized enterprises experiencing huge liquidity challenges, and thus there will also be a risk of some of them going bankrupt. In this way, we will be left with fewer jobs, less growth and less opportunities for prosperity and therefore welfare in this country. As I have said, this will have major financial consequences, on which the Left does not wish to support. The Left supports one hundred percent of the new holiday law. It had the support of a broad majority in the Folketing back in 2017, and we look forward to very many years with the new holiday law, and on that basis the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101813	There is a brief comment on Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101815	Yes, but I am surprised that it is being pointed out that that money will then have to be paid twice this year. It is, of course, true if you do not make a scheme, what you could have done, and what has also been debated, where payments of holiday money were made over several years, and I cannot imagine that payments of holiday money spread over several years will lead to mass discourses, social poverty and mass redundancies. It is like now taking the worst possible scenario that the money will have to be paid out tomorrow, but it is not certain that that is the fact. It is very easy to make a gradual payment of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101857	Maybe that's an option. But I have great respect for the fact that the social partners have come together and made this solution, and the Left wants to support it. We do not want to create uncertainty and doubt as to whether small and medium-sized enterprises actually have or do not have that liquidity. So, on this basis, we do not think we should change the new holiday law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101928	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Then we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228101938	Thank you. As far as this proposal is concerned, I understand very well those who say that they have holiday money, because so do they. They are frozen so that they can be paid when you retire when you leave the labour market. It is in the same way as it is today: the last holiday can be paid when you retire. It has been agreed in the Holiday Law Committee that it should not affect your pension calculations when they are paid out. It has also been agreed that they should be indexed and follow the trend in wages, so that, of course, they have a greater value when you reach retirement age, so that that is not the amount you are getting today. They must be remunerated and they must follow the wage trend, so that at that time when you retire, it is the same amount that you get today. That is what has been agreed. I respect the fact that the social partners, who have been in touch with the Holiday Law Committee, have agreed on this arrangement, on the basis that we have been told by the European Union that we must have a simultaneous holiday. Of course, simultaneous holidays also mean that those entering the labour market as new people can start off on holiday, and it is not the case that somebody is losing some holiday. You still have 5 weeks' holiday in 1 year when you start earning the holidays. And if you look at the period from September to September, you can get what you haven't spent when you get to September, that is when the law comes into force. It is also a good thing, and people then still have away the holiday that they are entitled to have. No one is losing any of the five weeks of vacation, and the sixth week of vacation, which many have, has nothing to do with this. They still have it at their disposal, where they have agreed on the 6th week of holiday, so those who have it still have it at the same time as this contemporary holiday. So all in all, I think it is a good arrangement, but I understand perfectly well that people would like to have the money paid out extra. However, as has been said, it will not be good for the economy if it is the case that everyone has to take a double holiday. Of course, someone will say that they would actually have liked to have had that so that they could take some more holiday in one year. I understand that too, but we stick to what the Holiday Law Committee has come up with and the agreement we made in this House. During the transitional period we must be aware of whether the transitional period is working, if anyone is unable to take the holiday they have been promised, or if there are problems of profit, because then we can get funds from the holiday fund to take a holiday. That is what the agreement says, and we must, of course, be aware of that. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution, but we fully understand that there is, of course, a desire for the money to be paid out. Who will not be able to get a double portion paid in one year? That is something that goes without saying; there are a lot of people who would like to do so. But like I said, you get them when you retire and they're secured. There is nothing about losing anything, even if your employer had to go bankrupt in the meantime. The holiday money is in the holiday fund, so you still get it away when you reach retirement age and retire from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102337	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to thank the many citizens who have signed the citizens' proposal and thus made use of their opportunity to set the agenda for what we are discussing here in the Folketing. There should be no doubt that the Radical Left is pleased with the new holiday law. The core is contemporary holiday, where you can spend and earn your holiday at the same time. I remember myself when, as a freshman, I got my first job but couldn't take paid vacation in the first year. With the new holiday law, new people in the labour market will be able to take paid holidays, even in the first year. Then it is true that in the transitional year between the old holiday law and the new holiday law there will be funds that will be frozen. However, it is important to say here that the social partners have made great efforts to reach a solution that ensures a new and better, more transparent holiday law. And if the element of the freezing of holiday funds is removed, it can have consequences for the economy; for companies that may risk turning the key. In view of this, I must inform you that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102459	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, and that is why it is now Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102506	The citizens' proposal is a qualified input into a debate which for many years has stirred up the huts and with good reason, because it is something that has poped up countless times. For once, it could be a discussion about whether employers should not just take the holiday money along with the salary, and then the individual could save up himself. But then there is a pretty great risk that you will not get it done and therefore do not have the money on the day of the holiday. Another element in other discussions could be that the employer would lose its liquidity by having to pay the holiday money immediately. And over the ages we have also discussed the challenge of holiday money which is not being picked up. At any rate, we can see that the old holiday rules were a mess. They meant that many people didn't have the economics to take their holidays the first year when they started working. I really think that the European Union should be thanked for having them kicked to the anthill, so we got things changed in Denmark. Actually, I think it's about time. One might wonder why it took so long for us to change it and that it should end up being the European Union that should ask us to do so. As I said, there are many good reasons to change the way holidays are run, and these many pieces must fit together in a new puzzle, and in this border country between agreements on the labour market and legislation in the Folketing we are so well placed in Denmark that we have solid professional organisations on both sides of the table on the labour market. And the proposal for a new system has been put together by the very professional organizations which enjoy the legitimacy of it in their hinterlands. The balance has been established and the trade union movement supports the proposal, including the system of employees' fund for claims on holiday funds. It may, of course, be tempting and I may have the impression that it is apparently for Enhedslisten to see the proposal from the trade union movement and employers as a buffet, and not as an overall proposal. And then Enhedslisten and other parties can go to the buffet and pick out the treats that you like best and leave something else. But then I just do not think that we can deal with an overall, balanced proposal after long negotiations. If we take out individual elements, we will shift the balance, and I think that is disrespect for the result that has been achieved by the professional organisations. In fact, I also have so much confidence in the leaders of the trade union movement that they can vouch for the overall package that the SF cannot then support the proposal as it stands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102755	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. No brief remarks, and then we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228102804	Thank you. Well, I can't help but hear it that there's full understanding and of many thanks dead blacksmith's cat. But there are 60 000 citizens, almost at least, who have signed this proposal, and we have to admit in the Enhedslist that we warmly support the proposal, and we do so for several reasons. Not because we would like to pick at a buffet, but because we were actually successful in getting the bill divided in its time, so that one was about holiday law and vacation at the same time, which we were glad we could vote in favour with a clear conscience. This is a good solution, especially for young people. At the same time, however, we also had the opportunity to vote against the freezing which would mean that it would just be given to employers to take advantage of the liquidity involved. We were given a number of answers at the time, when we received an assessment from the then minister that the 55-60 billion. kr. We thought it was important to get that division, because we didn't think it was right. It was simply a way to take the workers' saved holidays. After all, it is they who have earned the money and they must be allowed to stay with the individual, or in a fund which they have collectively at their disposal. Well, that's an option. However, as I have said, we voted against the proposal to freeze the extra holiday money, which means that employers are now allowed to have to spend the five weeks of holiday money until employees leave the labour market. There are also some curls on that, because those who are now leaving the labour market with a pension cannot get their money immediately, we have to say. However, according to the then Minister for Employment, this means an increase in the liquidity that employers can use and that they can gain if they invest them, i.e. 20-30 billion. kr. At least there is as possible gain. It is the money of the employees and we support the payment of the money. On the other hand, we think it is very reasonable to have a transitional arrangement. And that is important, because we are not going to fuck small businesses either, so they have to pay double for a year. We say it is quite reasonable that the amount should be reduced over a number of years, so that it will not paralyse an employer, that they will have to deliver the money at once. We can easily see reasonableness in that, and it was also in the debate at the time, but it did not benefit anyone at all. After all, the employees who retire this year and next year cannot get their money paid out either. It is one, you might say, a bit bureaucratic, technical thing that lies in it. But that's not okay either. This means that they have to wait 1-2 years to get their money, even if it is in the law that they can get them on the day they retire. We think it is quite unreasonable to give employers the additional opportunities. So far they have been able to dispose of holiday cash for one year. Now they can dispose of them for up to 60 years. We don't think it's okay. So we warmly support the proposal put forward by nearly 60 000 citizens who have signed a citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103122	There are brief remarks, but before we take them, I would ask the Folketing to help me by standing up to greet our guests. It is the case that today the Danish Parliament has been visited by the Greenland Presidency under the leadership of President Vivian Motzfeldt. So warmly welcome to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103147	We shall now proceed to the brief remarks. I'm a little in doubt about sir. Leif Lahn Jensen wishes to speak, but Mr. At least Karsten Hønge asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103155	Mrs Jette Gottlieb ended her speech by saying that the Enhedslisten strongly supports the citizens' proposal. So the question must of course be: is Enhedslisten equally cynical in their rejection and equally cold in their rejection of this result from the trade union movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103212	We think it was a bad debate they did and we believe that there were some concerns they did not take, and we regret that. But it is not a law of nature that, because two parties have agreed on it, it is also the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103229	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103230	Well, I understand that when we ask the social partners to solve a very complicated task, here in the Danish Parliament we have some taste judges, some overjudges in the Enhedslisten, who can assess what is best for employees in Denmark, and not those who have been elected to do so and represent them through the trade union movement. So we are in the incredibly lucky situation, that despite the complicated and long negotiations we have skilled professional shop stewards to negotiate on behalf of the employees... we have through Mrs Jette Gottlieb and Enhedslisten such overjudges and taste judges sitting who say: No, do not work, on to the next. What is this disrespect for the trade union movement we are hearing about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103258	I think sir... Karsten Hønge hears all wrong. This is not a matter of disrespect. We are just saying that there are some other solutions that would have given some better opportunities. It is quite all right to think so, in my opinion, and it is not a matter of taste judgment or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103316	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103317	No, but there is no respect for the tripartite model either. And I have been a shop steward out there for a number of years, just like Mrs Jette Gottlieb and working with it for many years. I have also helped to select those who have to sit and negotiate, to help choose those who have to sit and negotiate politically for the employees. And I have complete confidence that they can do it. And when you choose as Enhedslisten, you do not have confidence in it either, you do not have confidence in all the people who choose those who have to sit and fight for the employees and sit and make triparte. And don't Enhedslisten also admit that by doing this over and over again we've seen it before from Enhedslisten... you also help to say that the tripartite system doesn't work? It helps to tell all the employees, all the trade unionists around the Danish country that those they choose we do not have confidence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103402	I think that again is to raise the situation somewhat. So it must also be said that the 179 people who sit in here with the duty of political decision-making have to think for themselves. And that is something that can be done without disrespecting the parties who make recommendations to the decisions we have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103419	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103420	But this is nothing new. Time and again we see Enhedslisten going against this tripart. And I just have to say that what you send out as a clear signal, of course, is that Enhedslisten simply does not respect the Danish model with the social partners at the head of the tripartite. This can only be seen, and I am very surprised, when, in the Enhedslisten too, you have plenty of talented people sitting out there negotiating on behalf of the trade union movement. Then Mrs Jette Gottlieb cannot be worried if you are told time and time again in a tripartite: what you have negotiated, what you have mixed blood about, do we not want to take some things out? Then why would they want to do it another time? Can't that worry Mrs. Jette Gottlieb?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103501	I think there's a misunderstanding. We have deep respect for the social partners. We have deep respect for the attitudes they bring in. But we also have respect for the duty of the people sitting in this Chamber to do their assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103513	We thank Mrs Jette Gottlieb. There are no further brief comments, which is why we move on to the next rapporteur, Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103522	Thank you to the citizens who have had this motion for a resolution tabled. This motion for a resolution is a citizen's proposal which, within the given time frame, has received the necessary number of signatures to enable the Folketing to decide on it. This citizen's proposal proposes that the frozen holiday allowance be paid. It is no secret that we in the Conservative People's Party want to abolish the holiday money system. We believe that it is paternal and immoral when the state interferes in when people need to spend their hard-earned money. That is why we understand the intentions behind this citizens' proposal. I also understand that as a citizen one can be frustrated to have to find a head and tail in a very complicated holiday money system. Having said that, we do not believe that paying the frozen holiday money is a good idea, as the holiday money system is now. For the Ministry of Employment, the payment of the excess holiday money will at once involve the risk of overheating and the liquidity of employers. In addition, the Ministry of Employment considers that the proposal will have a significant impact on the economy and lead to inappropriate economic pressure on enterprises during the year of disbursement. The Conservative People's Party understands the intentions, but we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103645	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228103659	Thank you. And thank you to more than 50,000 citizens for once again launching a debate in the Folketing. We are seeing these citizens' proposals more and more, and this means that we need to discuss something that we have not chosen to discuss ourselves, but which the citizens have chosen to discuss, and we are pleased about this in the alternative. Yesterday we had a conciliation on mutual dependents, which came on the basis of a citizens' proposal. There has also been one around the educational ceiling, and that was one of them, which I would venture to claim made a political difference when over 50,000 students said that we should abolish the education ceiling. And then it didn't take a month until suddenly there was a majority in the Folketing for it. The Climate Act also came on the basis of a citizens' proposal. We haven't done the same thing, but I don't think it'd ever have gotten as sharp without a citizen's proposal. It is not all citizens' proposals that come through, and it is not all citizens' proposals that make a difference politically, but each and every time they force us all to explain what we mean by these legislations to give the middle bills from us, to tell us why we have done what we have done. This citizens' proposal is one of those that the alternative will not support, but I would like to explain very briefly why we are doing what we are doing. When we talk all the time about the social partners, it is not such a political battle where you just have to have an excuse to say no to something. So it is incredibly important that those who have the most understanding in the labour market meet and solve the major problems and then advise us politicians on how to legislate here. It is a huge puzzle, and it is clear that those who negotiate for the workers are skilled enough to accept some demands, but also get something back. And those who negotiate for employers accept some demands and get something back. And in this way you have a puzzle where each party has got some things and has given some wishes. If, after that, one or two things are taken out by the Danish Parliament, then we shall have to find out: what balance is there then, and what about those who have lost something for which they have not received anything? How, then, will it be paid back? So there I think it is incredibly important that we do not create imbalance. I do not feel that the social partners always understand everything, but I think that far, far along the way, they are by far the best and closest to the labour market in telling us politicians how things should be. So I'm incredibly sorry to go in and pick out individual elements, and I'm certainly not going to do that here. The alternative is also an entrepreneurial party, and there are many newly created small businesses who find it difficult to manage liquidity to pay these holiday funds out. It is perhaps companies of five employees, ten employees who have a hard economy, who have used the bank credit down, who have smashed the piggy bank, who have provided all the funds that can now be provided when you are an entrepreneur and who are struggling a little to save money for wages month by month. In fact, there will be a problem that we saw here suddenly adding additional expenses which we had not expected to get when perhaps 2, 3, 4, 5 years ago we made our setup and figured out how to fight a few years to be so lucky perhaps to get our business running. So it's two of the main arguments that mean that the alternative doesn't vote for this citizen's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104029	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104038	Holiday money • I guess there is no greater distrust from politicians and parliament against citizens than holiday money. It's more like a Friday night when you ration the kids' Friday candy, because if you give the whole bag to little Jonas, he eats it all right away, and you don't think that's good for little Jonas, who is five years old. But these are adults and adults, and they do not need the state to ration their own money in this way. They can easily administer them themselves; they do not need politicians to do so. That is why, of course, the holiday money law must be abolished so that citizens can keep their own money. When we come up with this proposal, it is on the basis of the fact that it has not been dealt with with the holiday law, and then we are faced with the problems. If you had taken the stand, we would not have had this debate at all. Then the citizens would just have kept their money in their pockets and could save up for their vacation if that was what they wanted. Now we have an arrangement in which the social partners have found a solution on which they have agreed. Maybe we should respect that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104206	Liberal Alliance is a party... a working party... for everyone who goes to work. That is why we are basically of the opinion that employees should receive their salaries, even in the case of holiday money. Unfortunately, for too many years we have had an unfair vacation money system that has not been confident that Danish employees are adults, authoritative people who can manage their holiday money and can find a way of saving up for holidays if that is what they want. In this system workers have had to apply nicely for the right to pay the wages they have been forced to save, and this has created a violent holiday bureaucracy, I would almost call it, and the vacation bureaucracy has meant that over the years there have been a number of workers who have not received their holiday money, because they have forgotten to apply for them. The fact that several employees have over the years been cheated on their wages has been so fairly relaxed in trade unions and in the so-called traditional working parties. This is largely due to the fact that the non-paid funds fell into the Labour Market Holiday Fund. Trade unions have been able to act as cheerful donors for charitable purposes in respect of unpaid wages. It is always easy to be charitable and a happy giver, when you can just leave the bill with people who go to work and may have worked a little too much and forgot to take some vacation. The companies are not completely free from a bit of criticism either, so to speak, because they have also been happy with this holiday money system. They have been able to wait as long as the rightful wage has been paid for almost a year and a half, and it is of course attractive to have this money on the company's account and thus get the associated interest income. The new holiday money system that is on the way is actually ending up with a number of these injustices not enough, but it is a step in the right direction, and we should be commended for that. Unfortunately, it has ended up with a system in which companies are given the privilege of being able to keep the wages and salaries in the company's account again, and then a system has been set up that favours companies over the workers, and now people who go to work can only get their rightful holiday money when they leave the labour market. For some people, it is as much as 50 years that they have to wait until they can get their rightful money, but I am sure that companies are happy about it. I find it rather difficult to see that it is reasonable for companies to be able to sit on the money for up to 50 years, rather than allowing adults, qualified people who go to work, to receive the holiday money they have actually earned. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not conduct policy for business owners or for companies alone. We have a look for the citizens and for society, and that is why we often pursue a policy that is friendly to the market, to free competition and to low taxes and is business-friendly at all. For a business-friendly policy, society and people who go to work benefit, but that is not something we do for the sake of companies, and that is actually the principle that we have when we support this citizens' proposal. Because, in isolation, the citizens' proposal will cost companies some money right now and here, but it is simply a question of companies paying out some money that they would have to pay out at some point. It is salaries that they owe to employees and it is reasonable that they should be paid out. In the agreement on a new holiday law, the trade unions have been eaten off by placing frozen funds over time in the workers' holiday funds. It is such a new fund where the trade union movement can act happy give. It is quite in line with the Labour Market Holiday Fund that it doesn't get better when you just change the name of the fund. I am convinced that people who go to work and earn the right to holiday money are better at spending their own money than the trade unions are in holiday funds. That is why I would like to pay tribute to the almost 60 000 citizens who have tabled this citizens' proposal. In the Liberal Alliance, we are on your side. We support the resolution and we also support it if it is the case that the compromise in committee work is that the money should be paid out over a number of years instead, as Enhedslisten has proposed. All the indications are that this proposal will be voted down with a bang, and if anyone comes with us in the rooms, I would say that I do not really think you should direct your anger towards the politicians. Because there is a tendency that my good colleagues here at Christiansborg would very much like to follow the agreements reached jointly by companies and trade unions. So if you're unhappy, and I understand that, then I think you should take it up with your union and say to them: Dear union, why don't you have more confidence that I'm an adult who can find out for myself how to save up for my vacation and spend the holiday money better than you can in foundations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104720	There are a few brief comments. Alex Vanopslagh I can imagine). First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104724	I need to hear something. For the rapporteur said that in the Labour Market Holiday Fund employees could use the money as they wanted, as if they could just do one thing and the other in the Labour Market Holiday Fund, i.e. those who sit there in the trade union movement or I do not know what the rapporteur said. But can the rapporteur confirm that the Chairman of the Labour Market Holiday Fund is actually a former colleague from here, a member of parliament from the Left, and that the Danish Employers' Association is also in it? This means that the Labour Market Holiday Fund is not just the trade union movement but all the social partners. Can the rapporteur also at the same time confirm that he was just smart enough here on a Friday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104807	Well, it was at least just as clever enough to say unilaterally that it is trade unions that act happy givers in holiday funds; there are also others other than trade unions included in the holiday funds. Anyway, I'm saying that's what the trade union movement's been eaten off with. I am fully committed to ensuring that Danish senior people who go to work can spend their own holiday money better than any other person can in various funds, whether there is a high level of trade union movement in them or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104834	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104851	We're here to make everyone understand what's up and down. But I must also remember to confirm: is it not also true that the Liberal Alliance is also involved in the conciliation on the holiday law? Aren't they?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104859	Yes, that is absolutely correct. We have been involved in supporting this proposal. We were in government and it was part of a compromise that we reached. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, this is a step in the right direction. Now there is a citizen's proposal which is trying to remove an inappropriateness in this agreement, and we would like to support the idea of removing or at least changing it so that you can get your holiday money on a regular basis rather than having to wait 50 years for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104912	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104915	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur has just mentioned the fact that it may be possible to pay it on a regular basis. Because it has also worried us in New Citizens that it has to wait until you retire, and it is 50 years into the future that it may be unreasonable. I can also hear from the Enhedslisten that it is also something you would like to look at. So I hope that perhaps the Liberal Alliance could help to see if there could be a running payout, because that is one way to get to grips with this. I also hope that the rapporteur will recognise that the citizens' proposal, as it stands now, can actually put some companies out there facing some liquidity problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228104951	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, voting through the citizens' proposal as it is now will entail costs for companies, but the Liberal Alliance is not a party that is primarily concerned with companies; we are thinking of the citizens, the Danes, and people who go to work, and therefore we often pursue a business-friendly policy. So we can ultimately support the resolution, but we are a God-given pragmatic party, so if the compromise is somewhere else, we are happy to accept it, and it would be great if the Liberal Alliance could reach a compromise without having to listen to criticism from New Citizens, so I look forward to the cooperation in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105023	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105024	Well, when the Liberal Alliance does something sensible, they don't get criticism from New Citizens. The difference lies in whether everything should be paid immediately and there is a double payment of one year or whether it can be done on an ongoing basis, for example. 5 years so that companies can plan their way out of it. It is clear that if we in the Danish Parliament impose a rapid reduction in the liquidity of companies, this could cause major problems, especially for wage-intensive companies, and if companies go bankrupt, it would not do anything to benefit the economy at all. So I am glad that the Liberal Alliance will help to see whether it is possible to introduce a 5- or 10-year period, and we will have to look at that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105101	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105102	Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105104	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105107	Thank you. I think it is interesting that the Liberal Alliance now departs from everything that has been said in favour of when the holiday law was made. That is what this is all about. Now it is said that the holiday money must be paid. The agreement does say that changes in the Holiday Fund are not included; you can change that, but this is not a change in the Holiday Fund. It's a change in the contemporaneous vacation with the payout of this money. It also states in the agreement that the Liberal Alliance, too, is behind a responsible transitional regime focusing on workers' holiday patterns and on the liquidity of employers. The Liberal Alliance has signed that. It is a little misleading that everything that has been said is now being waived when the holiday law was agreed. Now they say it doesn't apply anymore. In other words, the Liberal Alliance says that you are out of agreement on the holiday law. Then the Minister doesn't have to invite the Liberal Alliance to negotiations on the holiday law another time, I can figure out. You have stepped out of everything, because you go directly against what the Liberal Alliance itself has helped to agree when the Liberal Alliance was in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105215	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105216	We continue to support the vast majority of the amendments contained in the agreement. But listen to this: when you are in a government, you make a series of compromises. You're the target of those when you're in government. Now we are not in government, and then we can freely say our opinion, and our opinion is that this part of the agreement is inappropriate. That is why today there is a citizens' proposal in the Folketing, and we can then stand up and say that we are in complete agreement, but we hardly dare say that because we have reached a compromise in the past where we had to swallow some camels. We might as well say that it was a camel we had to swallow, and if we can change it now and do things better in the future, then that must be the first priority rather than pretending that all parts of the agreement we have reached are perfect. After all, we are in the Folketing to constantly produce the best possible results for the citizens. If you discover that there is something inappropriate in a political agreement that has been reached, then you must endeavour to improve that part, and that also applies to the Danish People's Party and all sorts of other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105320	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105321	There is, of course, a difference between an agreement and a settlement; we agree on that. But if you've made an agreement and you want to change it, you go to the contract circle and you say, "Why don't we take a look at this?" I am not aware that the Liberal Alliance has in any way tried to go to the Minister and say: should we not see if we can change this? But the fact that the Liberal Alliance stands on the platform and says that they support a citizens' proposal is, of course, fair enough. Of course, you have the right to do so. I also understand that the citizens want their money out. It has nothing to do with it. But as it is here, the Liberal Alliance has renounced everything that lies in the agreement on the vacation law. That is why I would urge the Minister not to invite the Liberal Alliance next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105409	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105413	After all, we have not renounced the principle of holistic vacation. So it is simply nonsense to say that when there is a part of the agreement that one disagrees with, one goes against the full agreement. And what you have of calls to Minister for Employment Peter Hummelgaard, I shall not interfere. I'm sure you can have a good chat, and I wish you a good weekend along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105432	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105433	I would like to ask Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's very condescending mention of the Labour Market Holiday Fund, perhaps even not only condescending but also completely ignorant mention, when Mr. Alex Vanopslagh refers to it as a place where trade unions can play cheerful givers. Paragraph 1: Can we agree that this is not a place where the trade unions decide? The Labour Market Holiday Fund is widely composed, so it is not a place where the trade unions just share the money. Paragraph 2 is for the benefit of the cheerful givers: By Mr. Alex Vanopslagh at all, what that money goes to? This money goes, among other things. to hold hands under the most poor children in this country who have poor opportunities to take a vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105512	I am well aware that it is for charitable purposes, and it is easy to be charitable when one is on the basis of a bureaucratic and paternal holiday money scheme, where people are forced to save, and if they forget to apply for the money or if they do not take enough holiday, the money goes into a fund. Then you can sit and it's not just the trade union movement, but also a number of other parties and spend the money on charitable purposes. There I say that I would rather that the money goes to where it belongs, that is to say, to those people who, after all, have gone to work and earned it. It amazes me that what was once a working party, namely SF, does not have the eye that the workers should of course have their full pay, including their holiday money. That should be a matter for a party like SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105553	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105554	In any case, we made it clear that those taunting and patronizing remarks about the Labour Market Holiday Fund were completely in the fence. Then there's another question I'd like to ask. After all, today we are experiencing an interesting break between the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. But there may be differences. Where Enhedslisten also in this situation, and this is typical, chooses to stand outside the settlement, the Liberal Alliance is part of the settlement. In other words, apart from the fact that one is making oneself indifferent in size, one is also making oneself completely indifferent to being someone with whom one can make agreements, if one nevertheless soon afterwards stands up and basically changes the agreement that we have actually made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105630	It can always be expected that the Liberal Alliance will not refrain from improving existing agreements if a need arises. I'm really proud of that. It's not something I want to be ashamed of. But you are absolutely right that the procedure is ultimately a matter for the contract circle. I am glad that there is this citizens' proposal which gives us the opportunity to have the debate in this Chamber and, hopefully, to press for us to make the necessary changes in the contract circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105703	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105706	I think it's interesting to hear this hunt for the Labour Market Holiday Fund. I would like to remind you that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's party and the former bourgeois government actually stole the money of the Labour Market Holiday Fund, a million-dollar theft, to finance their Finance Act. They got the majority for that here in the Folketing, and we had to carry out an expropriation to get that money. If it had been a business manager or a number of companies we expropriated, I think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh wanted to talk in a different way. But sir... Alex Vanopslagh remembers that this was actually what happened in the government that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh supported before the election?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105751	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105753	The honest answer is that I can't do that. I was busy going to work and delivering a lot of my payrolls to the holiday money scheme, and I hadn't caught that part politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105805	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105806	No, but I asked because I thought that a leader of a party would know what happened to such a short horizon as 3-4 years ago. It was hundreds of thousands, millions of kroner that were taken from the Labour Market Holiday Fund, from the savings from Danish workers, put into the Folketing and used for the bourgeois government's Finance Act. It was even done that they said: okay, now we are restricting the functioning of the Labour Market Holiday Fund, as it has done so far. Isn't that an attack on what to call private activities outside Castle, when you have to make an expropriation law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105843	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105846	I think that the funds and it should be quite clear after today's debate that lie in the holiday fund belong in the pockets of the Danes who have gone to work and paid money for it but who have not taken a holiday. And I think that we are relatively in agreement that this holiday money should not be used to finance various measures under a financial law, but they should never have ended up in the holiday fund in the first place. And that is probably where the real and great disagreement arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105917	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105931	The debate is open. The Church Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228105955	Thank you very much. I hope the President will understand if I take a few minutes to thank the members of Parliament for the many expressions of sympathy I received from you in connection with my daughter's death. It has been absolutely crucial for me to have been able to find the strength to stand here today for the first time in the honourable Chair. I am very grateful for that. I am also very grateful that the alternative has chosen to put the use of the people's churches on the agenda here in the Folketing. I also very much agree that all of us, including, of course, the church of the people, must contribute to the green transition, and finally, I also fully agree with the proposers that the share of ecology that we are looking at today on the lands of the people's church can and must be increased. The church's many different congregational councils run a total of approx. 11,000 hectares of land, and that is where the church can, for example. convert to organic farming, low natural areas and untouched forests, as the proposers suggest that we from the Danish Parliament demand. Before I go any further, however, I should like to point out that already today it is 11.4%. of the agricultural land of the people's church, which is organically operated. This is slightly above the level of the general share of organic land at national level, but it is therefore still significantly below the share of organic land under the auspices of the state and municipality. The only thing fine is that this is something the church councils are working on. Fortunately, there are also many church councils already working to ensure that both the church's land and buildings are used in the most sustainable way. Several cross-cutting initiatives have been launched within the National Church, for example. Green Church, with which I myself have had the opportunity to meet, and I am sure that they will also be open to dialogue with the rapporteurs. The bishops of the country have most recently also gathered and engaged and have sent me a proposal as church minister, which I have shared with the rapporteurs, for a popular climate committee to contribute with knowledge and advice on how to support the work of the church councils. So there is no doubt that we must continue along this path. The government wants us to continue along this path, and so do the people's church actors, the church councils, but they are the ones who have the decision. I myself have put the green agenda on the agenda as one of the highest priorities, including in my work as church minister. I have just raised the dialogue with the many actors in the church about how we can best do this here, and I believe, as I said, that, on the basis of the structure around the church, it is the dialogue that is important when it comes to decisions on the lands of the church. It may well be that what the proposers are talking about can be a longer process, but it is also only essential for the democracy of the people's church that it is the individual church councils that independently manage the many different areas of the people's church. I believe that a lasting change in a decentralized institution such as the church of the people is best achieved by involving the many people who make daily decisions about daily life in the church of the people, and fortunately they are also not unwilling to enter into this dialogue; on the contrary. It is this dialogue and involvement that is also fully in line with the long tradition of discretion, which has in general been characterised, also for the parliament's regulation of the people's church's affairs. There may also be a need for further analysis before you find out exactly how to do it. When it comes to this specific proposal to introduce legislation here and now, it might be a good thing that we first clarified the consequences a little better, so that we can also make the transition work in the best way possible. For example: I have been informed by the Danish Agriculture Agency that they consider that a statutory obligation to convert the areas of the folk church to organic farming will have as a consequence that organic land subsidies cannot be granted to the areas. This area grant is granted to the organic holding to compensate for the average loss of organic farming, and the laying of untouched forests is also linked to a number of costs for the church councils in terms of lasting loss of income as well as the cost of maintaining the forest, which would then have to be financed in other ways. So it is important that we think very carefully. We must be aware that these rents and other rents are part of the church register and are therefore of great importance to the local ecclesiastical economy. It is very different, I must also openly recognise how dependent the individual church council is on income from the lease of land. The total revenue of the local funds in 2018 was approx. 6.8 billion kr., and the income from the lease of land was 36 million. kr., equivalent to approx. Seen at national level. So it may not sound like much, but in some regions the rent is therefore a considerable income. For example: in Tønder Provstis church tax, the income from the lease of agricultural land amounts to almost 5%. In relation to the church treasure. So it is natural that it is mainly country parishes that have a lot of land, and a legal requirement for full conversion to ecology, natural areas and untouched forest will therefore potentially hit the outermost regions disproportionately, and they are also struggling with other challenges. So I am very concerned that there is no further distortion between the country and the city, and it is also important to consider how we can make this transition in the best way possible. I should like to conclude by pointing out that the current legislation does not allow the Folketing to impose certain conditions of use on the parish councils in connection with the lease of agricultural land, for example. organic farming. However, as described, I am completely willing to and the government fully agrees to proceed with it and to first examine what consequences it is for how the change can take place, thereby supporting the church councils in how to find the best solution for the people's churches. However, on this basis and on this basis, the government cannot at this stage support the proposal to convert the lands of the people's church by legislation into organic farming, natural areas and untouched forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110632	Thank you, Minister. There are three who have submitted themselves with brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110637	Thank you for the positive approach to the issue. I also think it is a very good proposal to put forward and a good debate to have. I have also noticed that a great many church councils and ministers and other fine people in the church are discussing this on life, because in my opinion they want to be on the green wave. I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm what is stated in the chronicle in Information on 27 November, where Jan Morell, a member of the church council at St. Johannes Church in Aarhus, says: "The people's church is now renting away most of the land and earning between 35 and 70 million a year. Are the figures consistent with what the Church Ministry can see is correct? If it is only to the limited extent, i.e. between 35 and 70 million. kr., one earns from current leases, I think one can keep that proceeds even if one turned to organic farming, as there is a huge demand to get some land for organic farming and not everyone can afford to buy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110746	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110747	I cannot confirm on a stand-by basis the figure that the rapporteur is quoting from the cliché, but I can state that according to the information I have received, it is at national level 36 million. kr., which the church receives in return for the lease of land. And of that, it's this 11.4% that's already organic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110810	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110812	Yes, and there we agree that the share of organic farming must be greater. It's got to be 100 percent. at a time to be achieved by setting some processes in motion, and this may be a good proposal, but it is not enough. I also think we should do a conviction work so that every church council thinks it is important that they are also part of the effort for climate, biodiversity, clean water, etc., what they probably also want to be with the neighbourly love that is to be expected to be in the Danish church, and then they also have a love for the land that our Lord has given them or who it is that has given us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110851	Yeah, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110852	I shall try to clarify this further so that the information can be included in the committee's proceedings. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there is also a work of conviction that the rapporteur himself chooses to express it. That is precisely why I also pointed out in my ministerial speech that if, as a Parliament, we impose this on the church councils, they will, for example, do so. couldn't get a contribution for this ecological land grant, and it would actually put them at a disadvantage, because the income they get here is also being used for many good social measures, but also sustainability measures for the parishes in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110935	Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228110936	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for a relatively positive speech, but when I am still a little disappointed, it is because the Minister's receipt, when I first aired the idea, was positive and that, if I remember correctly, the Minister replied that it was a step in the right direction, and that is why I had a great hope that today we had a majority in favour of it. So I'm a little sorry. But I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that things are going fast enough in relation to the fact that the church councils are responsible for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111018	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111019	Thank you. I am actually trying to be overwhelmingly positive, but also just to respect the way we run the Danish National Church. 'Cause it's crucial for us to have that local commitment. So I think it would be a step in the right direction if we were to have a lot of ecology, and there I am, I think, just as impatient as the rapporteur and probably also a majority in this Parliament. Where I see that the church has already taken it up, for example. especially in connection with their cemetery operations and in fact also in their deacony to try to speak out respect for, yes, the Lord's creation, as part of the way they organize their work. So I would very much like to work positively in committee on how we can help the church councils to speed things up even more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111105	I don't think sir. Sikandar Siddique wants another question? Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111112	It can be said that it is not much when only 11%. of the land today operated ecologically, and compared to the race compared to the time and the green transition, the alternative thinks that it is going really, really slow. I would like to hear: does the Minister think that we need to maintain agriculture that harms the environment because we want to support small parishes financially? So, now there is only 11%, but if it takes many more years until the church councils come to the conclusion that you have to have organic farming and untouched forest, does the minister think that something should be done legislatively at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111201	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111201-2	If I could predict the future, I would do it, but it rarely ends well, so I can't pre-discount that. But I can say that right now the government would like to work with all the parties of the Folketing to provide a basis that makes it easy and manageable and also financially manageable for the church councils. For we live in a world of many ideas, but we also live in a practical world where things have to hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111234	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111235	Thank you for the floor and, in the first place, thank you to the Minister for standing guard that after all, it is the National Church and the individual parish and church councils that decide how the lands are to be used, not the State, the Folketing and the politicians. Secondly, I have a specific question about this desire to have a greater share of organic farming and organic farming on the lands of the people's church. The Minister is part of a government which, with a large majority in the Folketing, with the exception of the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, has acceded to the Climate Act. The Climate Act must reduce greenhouse gas emissions and it also means ensuring that the production that takes place, whether in agriculture or elsewhere, must be as climate-friendly, that is to say have as little a footprint on the climate as possible. Does the Minister recognise that crops and food produced organically have a larger CO2 produced unit than conventionally produced products?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111340-2	I must honestly admit that I have no knowledge of either being able to confirm or deny. I know that this is something that is being worked conscientiously in the Climate Ministry, and I am sure that they will find a good way to get these things into a higher unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111358	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111359	Then I can help the minister that it is It also means that if a larger proportion of the people's church's lands are used for organic farming, then it will make a greater impression and in fact work against what the minister • believes as part of the government's goal. So I think it is reasonable that if you, as a minister of the people's church, have some wish for a larger share to be organic, you actually get to know what it has to do with consequences when we talk about greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111442	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111442-2	Respect for the fact that the rapporteur has some information that I do not have and if it is as the rapporteur puts it, it just shows me that this is an incredibly complex area where things are connected, where biodiversity and nature and ecology and CO2 This is, fortunately, something in my world that I can get my colleague the climate minister's good advice on that, too, I have sought in my ministerial speech here, among other things. about how economic conditions lie, but that is something we can clarify in committee so that we can support them as best we can and it will be sustainable, both climate, social and economic. That's gotta be the three bottom lines we're measuring each other on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111526	We thank the Minister, also for the initial part of the speech. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and first it is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111542	Thank you for that, and thank you for having a strengthening of biodiversity, climate and the environment high on the party's agenda and today also to put it on the parliamentary agenda. We fully share the view that there is great potential on the lands of the people's church to improve biodiversity, the environment and the climate, but the Social Democrats do not believe that the approach of the resolution is the right way to go, and that is why we cannot support the proposal. It is our view that it interferes decisively with the democratic structure of the people's church. The motion for a resolution itself, as it stands, will require the government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Church of the People's Church, c. 11,000 hectares of land are converted to organic farming, natural areas and untouched forests. Today it is not the task of the state or government, but of the local congregation councils, for the lands of the church are administered by the congregation councils. So in an attempt to be precise in my wording, I would say that if there is to be any change in the administration, this must be done in agreement with the congregation councils and their representatives. As I said, in the social democracy we understand the intention and we support the intentions of the proposal, but must stress that the democracy of the people's church must be respected and safeguarded. In this connection, it can be said that this very year there are congregational elections, and this is an obvious opportunity to assert its influence. So, in conclusion, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to call for an active involvement in the church and participation in democracy this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111807	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111815	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the positive intentions surrounding the green conversion and also the areas of the people's church, which is why I am, of course, in line with what I said to the Minister, sorry that the proposal is not supported. I should like to hear what the rapporteur's position is quite specific. One thing is that you want to leave it up to the church councils, but does the rapporteur think that an area the size of one and a half times Tåsinge should be turned into untouched forest and organic farming? Is that the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111901	As I said, my position is that this should be done locally. I think it is very important that we have these considerations locally. One way to approach it is to take a local approach to the global goals and to look at the sustainable bottom line, both the environmental, the economic, the social and the spiritual, and what it means for the local area in which you are. But I also heard the Minister give an undertaking that we will continue to work on this issue and that we will have it examined in committee. So I look forward to that with the alternative that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111949	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228111950	I hear what the rapporteur says and respect for it, but I will try to withdraw an answer anyway. What is the social democracy's attitude towards the lands of the people's church? Does the Social Democratic Party mean processes, and how we do it, is one thing, but the question is only about the opinion that the folk church's land should be converted to organic farming and/or untouched forest and nature, so what is the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112027	Specifically, I believe that the proposal is a violent centralisation of the Church of the People, and I do not think we should adopt it. But I think that the people's church and all of us should be involved in converting to ecology, in implementing the green transition. That is the responsibility of all of us, and I have heard an undertaking that we will continue to do so in committee. There are quite a few questions to be asked, of a technical nature, of an economic nature, and also of what can be done. So I look forward to that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112112	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112118	Thank you for the floor. As has already been pointed out, the alternative to this motion for a resolution proposes to take action to convert 11 000 hectares of land into organic farming, natural areas and untouched forests. This means that approx. 8,000 hectares of land, currently operated as conventional agriculture, may only be operated in the future as organic farming or converted to natural areas, and that they approx. 3,000 hectares of land, which is today laid out as forest, shall be untouched forest in the future. Although one might think that the intentions of the alternative are noble, it does not alter the fact that the aim is to impose a political priority on the people's church, which is based on the ideological rules of the alternative itself. Basically, I believe that the church must exist for everyone, regardless of political beliefs, and that is why we must be careful to impose a certain political attitude on the church. I am proud that we have a democratic public church. Over 100 years ago, church councils were introduced because it was thought to be close to the citizens. And we can see that we have a huge support for the church, that people are satisfied with the church in terms of what it is like in many other countries. I think this is largely due to the fact that there is so much local influence. If I have to tease a little bit, I have to say that it is still a little strange that the party that set up to create democratic workshops, that we should be more democratic in Denmark and that there was a democratic crisis, is proposing to kid democracy in the people's church. It is a little paradoxical, and it makes me wonder whether it is because it is more important than democracy. I think that should be considered. So if the alternative wants there to be more ecology in the people's church, I would recommend the alternative to get someone to run for the church council elections... they'll come in a minute and fight for it in the church councils, because that's where you have to decide such things. Against this background, I can say that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112320	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112322	I would like to remind the rapporteur of the Left that the church is for everyone, yes, the churches are for everyone. The climate crisis also affects everyone, including our children and grandchildren. They are just not being asked, and there is not much democracy in that at the moment. That's why young people are reacting these years. And that is why it is important, as individual bishops and individual church councils do, to go into the climate effort and say: Are we doing well enough? Because when the church's lands are on average lower in terms of making an effort for the climate, for biodiversity and for clean drinking water, then I guess there's a good reason to say: Hey, this isn't going to work; would you like to hurry a little? It is surely a democratic right that we all have to try to influence each other. We do, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Why shouldn't we do that to the church too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112420	Because I respect democracy in the people's church. I believe in a democratic public church. We have a special construction in Denmark with a church. It also means that we have a democratic body called the Council of Congregations, and that is what I respect. That doesn't mean I don't care about the climate. We have joined the 70%. on the climate objective. We also interpreted a great deal to untouched forests when we last had government power, and we are also trying to promote the green transition. But we just have to say that Mrs Pernille Vermund also said that ecology is actually not very good for the climate; it has some other advantages. And that's why you sometimes have to see things in a broader context. And that's fine. But I think that you should do what you want to do locally, and I don't think we should decide at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112509	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112510	I think that if we take the whole sum, it would be really, really good to turn into ecology and get more untouched forest; I actually hoped we would agree on that. Because it is a huge effort that needs to be done. And for example... untouched forest, municipalities, regions and the state rely heavily on because our drinking water is extremely threatened. I do not know whether the rapporteur has noticed that there are indeed drillings where we find what is called the harmful substances to the extent that we have not ever expected to be found in Danish drinking water. It may be up to us to say: Hey, we may have to do something more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112553	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112554	The Enhedslisten doesn't have to shoot at us like we don't care about the climate. We've laid out more for untouched forest. When we had the power of government, there was also more that was converted into an registrar so we are also interested in creating it. But it is for reasons other than climate considerations that such things are done. This is done for biodiversity and to ensure control over how much spray poison there is. It is for other reasons that we do so. And then you do something different in relation to the climate. You have to do both. And there's just what I'm saying is that we always have to pay attention to what kind of instruments are being used. But in this case it is local, you have to decide it, not at Christiansborg, because I respect democracy in the people's church and I was hoping that Enhedslisten did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112628	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112636	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we believe that one should grow organically where it makes sense, and that one should set aside land for forest and nature areas where it makes sense. The Ministry of Churches or the government should not be made specialists in exactly the lands that the church councils possess for historical reasons. Therefore, it makes no sense for the government to decide that the lands of the church in particular should be cultivated in one way or another, to be set aside for forest or natural areas in one way or another. It's completely pointless. The decisions on how to deal with the soil must be taken at a completely different level. It is the Councils of the Congregations that have the right to rent, and it is they who are the tenants who manage the land. That is where the decisions have to be taken. So, unfortunately, this resolution makes no sense. Then, with regard to the rapporteur's speeches and the remarks I have just heard, I would like to say that the church does not exist either for democracy or for ecology. The church exists to enable us to preach God's Word. The fact that for historical reasons the church has something to do with the earth has nothing to do with Christianity, if I may say so. It's for historical reasons. And that land must be treated in a sensible and normal way by the people who know how to cultivate the land. This is not something that the Ministry of Churches should decide, either in terms of what crop you should have or how the land should be cultivated. It is a resolution that we absolutely cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112827	What is the reason why the Danish People's Party thinks that it is okay that we regulate and also compensate agriculture to a degree that has rarely been seen in history, to get them to work differently with their lands, and when we then have a proposal here that is about the church's lands, where I completely agree that it is not a prime competence for the church to run agriculture or forestry for that matter, what is the reason why the Danish People's Party says that here we must not touch the operation? We might as well say to them that something more needs to be done and that we are busy with this climate action that we can do to farmers, to industry and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228112915	I am not aware that if you grow the lands of the churches, you do not get the same subsidies or deductions or what is involved in agricultural policy measures. If that is the case, I wonder, because I assume that when you are a land user in Denmark, you are treated equally. But now that is not what we are discussing here today, so I do not need to be an expert on it either, I would say. What we are discussing is whether the government should intervene and make a very special policy towards the lands which historically belong to the church, and I do not think that should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113011	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113012	Well now I am in favour of doing both, both inspiring people to have reasonable behavior on the planet we live on all together, and also through legislation regulating activities to move forward more quickly. Both are necessary in this time when we need to take care of our drinking water, our biodiversity and also our climate. I think, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, that everyone is now aware of the need to make a major effort. Then we must inspire, regulate and help where we can. That's why we're elected into this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113046	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113048	Well here Enhedslisten then revealed some of his normal megalomania, i.e. that you just know what is sensible policy, that you just know how every single area in Denmark should be treated and cultivated, whether it should be interpreted for forest or organic farming etc. It is some sort of madness of grandeur that you think you know all that; you don't. Let people take decisions at the levels where they are to be taken and have some respect for the fact that Enhedslisten does not know everything and cannot decide and should not be allowed to decide how every small plot in Denmark should be grown and what is most sensible. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113129	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113133	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. Now the rapporteur says that the proposal does not make sense, but for the alternative it makes great sense to create breathing holes for our bees, to strengthen biodiversity, to ensure that we push for the green transition. Then I have heard the argument on several occasions that we must respect decentralisation, but this is not the first time that we, on the part of the Danish Parliament, have come up with inspiration or are trying to regulate matters. In these days there is a strong debate in various municipalities about the handshake law, something that we have pushed down over the municipalities, and I know that the Danish People's Party has also supported it. So what is the difference when you can push something down over a decentralized democracy in one place, while you do not want to in relation to climate and change? Can the rapporteur clarify this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113239	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113240	That is the substance of the matter. Yes, we will force the municipalities to ensure that these handshaking ceremonies shake hands with both men and women, and we in the Danish People's Party will also force the municipalities to make sure that girls cannot wear Islamic scarf in primary and secondary schools, and that is what we think is really, really sensible, because that is the content of the matter. But we think it is wrong to force some to cultivate the land in a certain way, because the Church Ministry or the government cannot say in advance what is reasonable in this context. Of course, we need to have a mix of different ways of cultivating the land, and there are plenty we need to take into account, export and food, etc. etc. Now I'm not an agricultural expert myself, so I don't want to be an expert on it, but you can't say the Church Ministry is, so those decisions have to be made elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113336	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113337	Now I mentioned the law of handshake because it is up these days, but what I hear the rapporteur says is not really a principle of decentralization, but has something to do with taste, because if you think you should intervene because it suits a political one, you intervene, but if you do not think it should be decentralised. That is what I hear the rapporteur say, and it is the same criticism that the rapporteur has just made of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. However, I would just like to point out from this point of view that
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113427	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113428	Well, then, let's put all of Denmark into untouched forest. Then we'd starve to death. That's a great idea, isn't it? I think there are so many things to be taken into account, so that is not the way we have to make decisions, but, in addition, it is not the process that I oppose, because I can agree to centralising decisions in some places, but that is the substance of the matter, because this is pointless. It cannot be said in advance that there is a particular method of cultivation which must be the right one throughout Denmark, because it is simply not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113507	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments, and I would like to welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113521	I would like to start by saying that I think this is a very good proposal and I would like to go in constructively and see how we can do that. We are in a situation where we are talking about climate legislation and everything that we need to change in the next 10 years, and that is, of course, also part of the process of conversion. Then there is the starting point that we must respect, namely that the land we are talking about here is land owned by church councils around the country, which has a long history behind it and so on. That is why I have thought about what we could do and how we could help to get this discussion started constructively. There are at least two ways that I can recommend without further ado. One is that the rapporteurs here in this circle call on the Committee of Churches to engage informally with the relevant parties involved in the church's land, and this should be in order to have a dialogue on what these problems are, for example. how the congregation councils view it. If you take hold of the National Association of Church Councils and invite them to a dialogue with the Church Committee, you could imagine that they have many different questions to which they would like answers, and we can enter into a dialogue with them on how we can solve some of the problems associated with such a conversion. The second thing we could do was to hold a hearing, in other words to propose to the Committee on Churches that a hearing be held, an open hearing, and then to invite all the parties concerned. I have already reserved a date in the European Parliament if there is interest, and it is Friday 9 October this year in the afternoon, where I have therefore reserved for something else that I have just been told cannot be done anyway, but then there is a hall that is not being used unless some others come and want it. These are at least two ways of dealing with this, where we get a joint calm conversation started on how we can carry out this task, because of course the lands we are talking about here must also be involved in the transformation that Denmark as a nation and as a country is going through with climate legislation. That is why the Radical Left is very positive about going into it. There is only one thing I think I should point out, and that is the way the draft parliamentary resolution has been formulated, where it says "and I quote: "That means that they approx. 8,000 hectares of land, currently operated as conventional agriculture, may only be operated in the future as organic farming or converted to natural areas, and that they approx. 3,000 hectares of land, which is today laid out as forest, shall be untouched forest in the future. ▪ I don't like it with only and shell. It is not a criticism, but I would just point out that I do not agree with the type of bidding that is in the choice of words. On the other hand, I agree with a dialogue which allows us to work together to find out what the solutions are, so that the people affected can see themselves in it too. And under these conditions, we're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113837	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113840	I have very, very much respect for the large format that Mrs Marianne Jelved shows that some of us new members of parliament can clearly learn something from that. Great respect for it. However, I cannot help but comment. I saw that sir... Morten Østergaard was out saying: We need climate action right now or we will overturn the government. This is climate action, and that is why I hope and call for a vote to be taken in favour of this proposal, which is an expression of climate action after committee reading. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228113920-2	We don't play like that. I have fleshed out what I cannot endorse in the wording of the motion for a resolution itself, and I must insist on that. I do not like the types of bidding, because we are talking about a form of confiscation against those who own that land, and I would like to have a dialogue-based approach to finding together the right solutions to get organic farming, natural areas and untouched forests. So the Radical Left shares the objectives with the proposers, but we would like a different way than to decide on the people we want to involve them, and it is time for the Folketing to start again involving the interested parties that we legislate on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114009	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114011	That is precisely why I am also in very close contact with Jan Morell and others from the church, but I would like to say yes to all the invitations that Mrs Marianne Jelved brings. I would like to say yes to a hearing in the European Parliament, and I would like to go out with Mrs Marianne Jelved and talk to the various actors and parties, and I have also taken note of the fact that the wording could have been different. As I said, I have great respect for the format that is displayed and I look forward to future cooperation, and I hope that we can change some wordings and land it somewhere so that an area the size of Tåsinge can be converted into untouched forest and/or organic farming. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114056	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114057	I also believe that the authors of the motion are well aware that the criticism I make could be justified, for the authors themselves say in the remarks: 'The alternative, however, recognises that intervention by the government in relation to the conversion of the people's churches is, of course, a long-term process which must take into account the fact that the majority of the people's churches are leased away. Therein lies an acknowledgment of what reality is like and that you can't just overnight take a line over the property conditions. We certainly cannot be involved in this, but we would like to find solutions in dialogue and in dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114136	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then we welcome Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114148	Thank you. I have to say in advance that I am here instead of our talented cultural rapporteur and church rapporteur, Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. I'm afraid she's been hospitalized after surgery, but I had to say hello many times. It is a debate she would very much have liked to have taken part in. I agree with many of the comments made by previous speakers, in particular Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left. We in the SF are incredibly positive about the alternative's intention with the proposal. I myself am a natural rapporteur and a rapporteur for agriculture, which is why I love untouched forests and natural areas and organic farming, but the state does not own the land of the people's church, and therefore the SF cannot really endorse the proposal as it is at present. We look forward to the committee reading, and we think very much like Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left's remarks, but also the Minister's remarks, that perhaps dialogue could be used to find out what opportunities might exist in the church councils to create positive incentives to get something more untouched forest and natural areas and organic farming on the grounds of the people's church and how we can put them at risk. We would very much like to be involved in this. Although it is a very interesting experience as a nature rapporteur to be involved in a debate where you really talk a lot about nature, even though the proposal is about something in the area of church, I also feel a little called to clarify that it doesn't really matter what areas you lay out for untouched forest, for example, and what areas you lay out for nature. Of course we want as much of it as possible, but now we are sitting, for example. 20 million kr. from the Finance Act to untouched forest, and it is a piece of art to find out which areas it makes the best sense to make for untouched forest as it is right now. Are we in some of the areas which, during the reign of the bourgeois government, were actually planned and which are missing some phase-in? In which places is there a possibility that some species management can be done and some natural areas that do something good for our endangered species and for the red list that we have just had an update on that looks really bad? There are such a little more nuances in it than that we just have to set aside a lot of land for untouched forest. Actually, there are places where it makes better sense. Frankly, I do not have an overview of whether the lands of the people's church and forest areas fall within those areas where it would make a great deal of sense. The alternative rapporteur's colleague, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, who is the natural rapporteur for you, can probably clarify that. However, we look forward very much to a discussion on how, in dialogue with the church councils, we can get them to do something more to redeploy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yeah, someone just came in, so here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114510	Thank you to the rapporteur. When we present the proposal here, it is because today there are 2,169 congregational councils. Today, only 11 per cent are operated. ecologically, so it is fair to say that the area of the people's church is far behind in relation to the green conversion. I am, of course, pleased that the bishops have now said that they have agreed to the 70-percent target and would therefore like to join the fight and now ask for a committee to be set up so that we can move forward with that conversion. However, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, if not the rapporteur's opinion, that with 2,169 church councils, which must decide individually what to do with which land, it can be a very, very difficult task if we do not somehow inspire or at least set in motion a debate which says: Hey, something must happen with this area, which corresponds to one and a half times Tåsinge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114613	I certainly believe that something more can be done in the church councils to convert both to organic farming and to untouched forests and to natural areas on the lands that belong to the people's church. But I will be very careful how they are required to do so. In fact, I think that there is a slightly higher proportion of, for example. organic farming on these lands than otherwise, is a very good picture that they are susceptible to dialogue. I think we should look into that in the first place. We have, for example. in the SF quite a few priests. I spoke to someone this morning in the form of Margrete Auken, whom I am sure would bite my head off if I said that we should manage what the church councils should do with their lands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114700	Thank you. I want to know if there is a follow-up question. There isn't. So I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. And then I would like to welcome Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228114712	You gave me a lot of your land, O Lord, which I must now call my own. It is not a defence of capitalism and private property that K. L. Aastrup wrote in 1945; it was probably such a joy that we people are allowed to live on an earth that offers as many opportunities as it actually does. And if you read on in his psalm, yes, you can actually see that he is humble and tells us to take good care of it. And that is what this proposal is all about. The church's task is probably, if it has land, to protect the creation of our Lord to remain in their own language. And that is why it is important that, in this area too, we discuss how we do it when we have found that human behavior and life on this earth is not so appropriate that it generates opportunities for future generations. We have to say that we are in a situation and at a time when we need to make an extra effort and where, in this area, both in the area of church, in the social field, in agriculture, in the European Union and everywhere, we must permeate our initiatives so that it benefits the climate, biodiversity, clean drinking water, etc. etc. This is a very good proposal and we must do everything we can to realise its purpose. The conversion of 11 000 hectares to organic farming and untouched forests is a very, very good proposal. And I don't belong to those who are afraid to control the earth. We do that every day when we make agricultural policy. We do that every day when we discuss church politics. After all, we make regulations and requests and rules about us even having an entire law on the functioning of the people's church and when other churches or religions may act in our society. So there we are not afraid to interfere. This proposal is in line with a very old rule, which I have used many times in my previous work in 3F. We have been really, really happy with the rule that you are not allowed to use spray poisons in cemeteries and fences and dikes in connection with cemeteries. It has benefited 3F's efforts to remove spray toxins for the health and life of employees, because people get sick from breathing spray poisons and getting them on their skin. It has been a good tool, and if you can go further along this path, it can be said that this rule was also an interference in the Council of Churches and the free decision-making rights of the Councils of Congregations. The church councils are not free to decide that you use spray poisons in the cemetery or on the dykes and fences. We have decided that many years ago. But I would like to say that everyone must contribute, including those belonging to other religions. Now it is just that a large part of the earth lies with the churches, because some lords and landowners many, many years ago could pay for absolution in the last hour by giving the churches their land. The king took part of it after the Reformation, and later the priests were paid instead of having to make it through their farms, so the land has become less and less important. And to be honest, I do not really think it is the church's primary competence to run agriculture and forestry, but since they have the land, we must try to inspire them to treat it properly. But to those priests, church councils, bishops, etc. who have to administer it, I would like to say: you may work a little faster; you may take more initiatives. I have noticed Green Church; I have noticed the church councils that are discussing it and taking initiatives during this time. If it is because you are afraid of the revenue, yes, then I can reassure the church councils that the lease of land for organic use is as good a business as land for conventional use. So there's really no need to be nervous. I think that, in this situation, we should do more than the proposal put forward here. We must both regulate and inspire. We'll try to see if we can launch a campaign. I think Mrs. Marianne Jelved had a few good ideas. I also think the church minister had some good ideas. Because if we are to win the climate effort, we must both regulate, but also be convincing, that everyone in our society must be part of the solution; everyone must contribute at the level that is now possible. And that means that campaigns, debates, conferences, etc. is also part of that effort. We could also create a pool that inspires the congregation councils, so that perhaps there was a little money to be made by behaving properly and properly in relation to it. We could also make a group of youth ambassadors who went to the older members of the congregation to try to convince them. We must all contribute, and no matter who has given us the land on which we live, it must last longer than it would in relation to what we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115253	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115306	Thank you. I am a substitute today for Mette Abildgaard, who has also just been operated on. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I can say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that we must safeguard Denmark and the Danish nature. Nature is under pressure. The diversity of wildlife and plant life is decreasing. In the Conservative People's Party we have a good principle called the generation contract. It says that Denmark must be passed on in good condition. We have a duty to look after the small waste land that has been given to us because it is a prerequisite for it to be passed on. That is why we also want to strengthen biodiversity. We want more untouched forest and more organic farming. Therefore, we also decided in the previous government to allocate 10,200 hectares to untouched forest on state land and a further 3,600 hectares to other biodiversity forest on state land over the next 50 years. However, it is not for the state to decide how the church manages its own land. We must encourage or even better engage actively in the membership democracy of the church, stand up for the council elections and influence decisions locally. We would also urge the proposers to do so. There are church elections in 2020, so the rapporteur can still make it. The people's church has a long tradition of member democracy, of which we can be proud. It is up to local congregation councils to decide how to manage their property. Nor do we decide on the property of other members' associations. I think we should much rather acknowledge that the church of the people, like everyone else in society, is in the process of finding their legs in the green transition. The proposers themselves mention Lejre Provsti in the comments, where more than half of the Provsti's land ownership is now organically operated. Finally, the church is looking at what it can do more climate-friendly. This is true, for example. the building operation, where the church has a task in finding out how the old medieval churches around the country can save on the heat. The Conservative People's Party therefore does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115530	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115535	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It was traditional, as it will always be from the Conservative People's Party. No criticism for that. I would remind you that the state contributes significantly to the operation of the churches every eternal year. Some are financed by the church tax; some are financed by the state. Personally, I would like us to finance the cultural values, and then those who wanted a sermon could pay the priest's salary via church tax. But that is not the case at the moment. Is it quite remote for the Conservatives that when you grant some money from the Treasury, you sometimes make demands? Because that's what we're gonna do in advance for the churches. The church councils are not free to use the money as they please. There are a lot of rules they have to observe in order to be allowed to spend the money that the state grants. And could there not also be a rule that when you lease your land out, you also make demands on how the earth is treated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115638	The church councils are, after all, a democracy. We have democracy in this country. And so we think it should be up to the church councils to exercise what is now to be done. And therefore, as I also encourage you to join the Congregation Council in order to have a local decision on what to do. And, of course, we also call in the forthcoming climate negotiations in general to look at how we can work more climate-friendly, including with the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115706	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115708	I agree that there is democracy in the church. You cannot join the church council; you can be chosen for it if you are a member of the church. That's right. But that does not change the fact that when we allocate some money to the churches, there are conditions, for example. that you must maintain the buildings properly and that you must follow the various regulations that exist in the area, including that you should not spray in your cemetery and on the dikes up to the cemeteries. In this way, we are interfering in advance. Is it so remote for a conservative to say that it could be that in future we should also make demands which may be about church farmland? Would it be completely, far away? For then we have a problem with the conditions we impose, for example. for agriculture, industry, etc., when we allocate money there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115753	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115754	We are happy to enter into a dialogue. As has also been said earlier by the Left, by the Social Democrats and by the Minister, we are very happy to enter into a dialogue on how the churches of the people can improve their climate performance in general. So we're happy to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115812	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund, the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228115829	Thank you. B 79 to make special demands on the administration of its property by the people's church is a most peculiar proposal. Paragraph 4 of the Constitution does not require the National Church, but requires the state to support the National Church. There is no indication that the State has the right to regulate or impose special requirements on the Church of the People, as the alternative with this proposal wishes. What is the common church's, where is the logical consequence of that? As far as we are concerned, this is at least an alternative form of logic. The Church of the People is unique in its high degree of decentralization. It's a church of grass roots... something the Alternative should approve of. It is therefore strange that a party that does not believe that the church should be distinguished and pretends to pay tribute to grassroots organisations is so eager to top-level and unite a decentralized organisation and abuse the constitutional bond between church and state. The National Church should not be a topdown organisation with frequent interference from a party led by a large number of people who make a virtue of not being themselves members of this voluntary and decentralised community. If the public church and the administration of its property were at the heart of the alternative, one could, like everyone else in this country, engage in the congregation councils and make a noticeable difference in one's community. But those who are not members and who are not interested in the welfare of the church should put their activity elsewhere rather than make special laws for a single institution. The various parish churches with lands must, of course, have the right, like everyone else in this country, to cultivate and manage their lands in the way they consider appropriate. They should not be ruled by taste judgment from Christiansborg. If a plot of land can benefit parish and church by being cultivated conventionally, it is their right to do so. That money can, for example. the preservation of our historical and conservationable medieval churches for the benefit of or contribute to parish aid around Denmark, where the church performs extensive social work for many vulnerable people who have otherwise fallen through the welfare state's safety net. Finally, it must be said that we in New Citizens believe in a new political culture, in which not everything must be decided from Christiansborg and not at all as far as the church is concerned. It must therefore be clear that New Citizens are the party that supports the people's church and freedom and also the freedom of the people's church. That is why we are, of course, opposed to the resolution in question. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120150	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120155	Those who are not members of the church should keep their mouths shut. That is probably the conclusion of the rapporteur's speech by the New Citizens' Party today. I would say that then we will have to cancel nine tenths of all legislation. Because I am not a member of Agriculture and Food, I am not a member of Danish Industry, I am not a member of a number of associations for which I help regulate life. I would like to ask New Citizens about the rule that was made for, I think it was 50 years ago, maybe longer ago, that you should not spray in the cemeteries with spray poisons, even on dikes that lie up to the cemeteries. Was it an untimely interference on the part of the public or the State or the Folketing that such a rule was made? And then I would like to ask the other areas, agriculture and industry: when we regulate there without being members of their associations, is it inexorable that we do so? Do you have to decide for yourself how to hog in your community without interfering?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120259	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120300	You can't decide for yourself how much you're allowed to piss. However, as politicians, we must refrain from making special rules for individual institutions. We must refrain from dictating how to cultivate our land in a democratic union, which the people's church is after all. A church must, of course, comply with the laws and regulations which, incidentally, are for society and how we look after our nature and our environment. But to make special rules and with this proposal almost involve the church's right to determine and involve the autonomy of the church is to me to see madness. Well, it's going so far that you don't have this basic understanding that we don't have a state church in Denmark. We have a public church, it's decentralized, and it has to stay that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120350	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120351	We have a state-owned church in Denmark. I guess we can agree on that. Church members pay themselves a lot, and the rest of us pay another part of it. That is the way it is, and it is probably not far from New Citizens that if you pay some money in subsidies for some things, you also have some demands. Or are New Citizens also opposed to the church law we have in Denmark, which regulates fairly firmly how the church should be run in Denmark? Is it an inevitability too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120421	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120422	We do not grant subsidies to the people's church, we compensate the people's church because they have involved the lands in the priesthoods and have thereby assumed responsibility for compensating for the economy that could otherwise have been. I am quite sure that if, for what is it, 100 years ago, one had failed to include the lands of the priesthood, then the economy of the people's church would be much better than it is today. It was, from my perspective, an untimely interference, and it should not be repeated, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120457	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no more brief comments. And then I'd like to welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120506	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are discussing a proposal for a parliamentary resolution that there should be organic farming and untouched forest on the grounds of the people's church. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that the alternative proposal is a bad one and therefore we cannot support it. Having said that, I have some doubts as to what is the most bad thing about the proposal. One of the bad things about the proposal has also been mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, and that is that the alternative is to put in place a politicisation of the people's church, by laying down that the church must pursue the policy of the alternative. And that is an excessive politicisation that we cannot support. But we are also not particularly pleased that it is proposed that the alternative will have the Folketing override the church councils and thereby override the democracy of the church itself, so that is also a reason for being skeptical. And then I have to say that when there are occasional discussions about whether Denmark is a Christian country, then the Alternative and Enhedslisten are some of the most active parties in fighting the perception that Denmark should be a Christian country. And therefore it is a little strange that two parties, who are so jumped to say that Denmark is not a Christian country, will interfere in how the church functions. For some people, the climate issue is approaching a religion, and you can almost interpret this proposal as one religion's attempt to make hostile takeovers of another religion, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. Each of the three reasons I have mentioned is in itself sufficient to reject the proposal. But when you combine it for three bad reasons, we cannot vote no three times, but we can at least say emphatically that we cannot support this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120707	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120709	Does this mean that all efforts for climate, for biodiversity, for the protection of drinking water are politicisation and unfair interference? We are also interfering in the operation of the local waterworks. We are also trying to help the water plants to protect the areas where they pull up their water so that they can have clean drinking water. We are also trying to regulate by saying that there are some restrictions on how close pesticides can be used in drinking water areas. Is it also untimely politicisation towards water plants, towards agriculture, towards industry, towards cities and towards municipalities that we interfere in this way and try to say: well, we want clean drinking water, we want biodiversity, we want to protect ourselves against the negative climate change that is happening. I guess that's the craft that the Liberal Alliance has also been set up in the Folketing to participate in the exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120810	Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120812	I think that when Enhedslisten often goes into the debate about whether Denmark is a Christian country it has been mentioned in some different government foundations and when you go so hard that Denmark is not a Christian country, it would be comfortable if Enhedslisten simply mingled around a part of the community that Enhedslisten is just opposed and flatly rejects the church not least when it has its own member democracy. I think that one can engage in dialogue with the member democracy, but I think it is very inconvenient that such a godless party as the Enhedslisten will interfere so much in how the church functions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120848	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120849	Well, I would like to apologize very much to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I have been elected to the Folketing without being a member of the Church of the People. That is the reality. And I am interfering in the legislative work that is in this Chamber; it is both my right and my duty, whether it be private business or agriculture or, for that matter, how the Liberal Alliance should administer state aid funds, etc. It is now part of our reality and our democracy that it is not said that only two thirds of the members of the Folketing should interfere because the rest are not members of the right association. I don't understand that kind of thinking at all. Does this mean that our church law is also an untimely politicization?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120928	Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120929	I'm well aware that sir... Christian Juhl does not understand religion or Christianity, but I just see with a huge reluctance the way the left has hijacked one institution after another. And when I have a little opportunity to put an end to the fact that Enhedslisten is helping to hijack some of the last institutions in society, I will certainly use that influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120946	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228120949	It's almost too tempting when Mr. Henrik Dahl says as he does. To be a politician and a politician is to interfere 24 hours a day, 24 hours a day. Well, sir, that's what both of you do. Henrik Dahl and Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121006	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121007	Politicians have a special responsibility because they have such great power. I know that Mrs. Marianne Jelved is very concerned about that, and so am I. Sometimes you have to stop using power, even if you have it. It's almost even more noble than just using power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121023	Mrs. Marianne Jelved, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121025	Yes, and we even teach the children in the primary school with the education we would like to give them if we live up to the ambitions behind the law that they must also interfere as good citizens and be active in society. And I think we should praise the children for becoming good citizens in Denmark. And we should rejoice in our association with one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121048	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121049	Well, I will paraphrase the Savior and say that we must give the Folketing what the Folketing is, and the church councils what the church councils are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121058	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121117	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the positive statements which, after all, were also in the Chamber in today's debate. I would like to start my speech today by thanking Jan Morell, who is sitting in the gallery today. Jan is the man who wrote an inspiring chronicle in Jyllands-Posten about why the church's large land possessions were not converted to ecology. Jan Morell himself has been elected to a congregational council. The Crown made a great impression on me because strengthening biodiversity, climate and the environment is very high on the Alternative's agenda. We are living right now in the midst of a biodiversity crisis, in a climate crisis and with a threat of pollution of our groundwater. That is why it is important that all the opportunities to take account of biodiversity, climate and the environment are taken into account. The focus is often on state land, especially the areas of the Nature Agency, when the debate falls on conversion to ecology and to untouched forest. However, it is not only on the Danish Nature Agency's land that there is a potential for achieving a climate, nature and environmental benefit. The Danish National Church is Denmark's third largest landowner, and in line with the church organisation Grøn Kirke, the alternative therefore believes that the church has a great opportunity to contribute to the struggle for sustainability. In 2017, the church owned approx. 11,000 ha of land cultivated as farmland. Of this, only approx. 11% run organically, while 89 per cent. was conventionally operated agriculture. In a preliminary statement from 2018, the total agricultural area of the National Church is estimated at 14 per cent. organically operated, and 86%. conventionally operated. It is a much smaller proportion of organic farming than on both state and municipal owned agricultural land. In addition, the people's church possesses lands that are today operated mainly as forests. This area amounts to approx. 3,000 ha. It is the alternative's assessment that on the lands of the church there is a great potential in terms of improving biodiversity, the environment and the climate. The lands should be converted to organic and untouched forests. As it is now, it is the individual parishes and 2,169 church councils that decide how it should be cultivated. This means that the change is simply going too slowly. But the climate crisis is too important; we do not have time to wait for 2,169 individual decisions. The alternative recognises that intervention by the government in relation to the conversion of the common church's lands is, of course, a long-lasting process, and it must be taken into account that the majority of the common church's lands are leased away. Having said that, if all the common church's agricultural land were to be used ecologically, it would mean that approx. 11,000 hectares of cultivated land would be free of carcinogenic chemicals that could eventually contaminate the drinking water coming out of our taps and the aquatic environment in general. If forest and natural areas were allowed to grow more wildly, biodiversity would have better conditions. The animals in the forests would have more habitats, and the forests would also bind CO2 Fortunately there is a positive green movement going on. It just doesn't go fast enough. The organic area has risen from 7%. to about 11 percent, and a few churches have seen the green light. In Elsted Church, located at Aarhus, the church council has already decided more than 30 years ago that the land is being leased out exclusively to organic farmers. I think we can talk about a vision that is unique. Also Lejre Provsti has decided to plan for a green future, so 50%. of Provstiet's land now must be operated ecologically. As I said, this development is good, but it is not enough at all. We therefore believe that it is time for all our efforts to save biodiversity, the environment and the climate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Hey, someone came in at the last minute. I would like to ask the rapporteurs just to be a little smarter to get their hands dirty. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121615	Well, I can't apologize about my young age that I'm not that smart, but I'm sorry to the President. I would like to thank the alternative for this good proposal and also thank Jan Morell for challenging the debate. I would like to know whether the alternative does not agree that, in the event that this proposal does not turn out to be a majority, we will have to continue by other means. I am actually hearing and seeing good opportunities for us to have a good debate in committee now, if we can get it back in committee and discuss further. Perhaps we could launch initiatives such as campaigns, debates and conferences, such as: Marianne Jelved has pointed out and, as I actually heard, the Minister would also be involved in setting off so that we might end up with calls or other things if we cannot reach a real parliamentary decision about this. But we'd like to move on. That's more of a reason, and I think we should generally walk on two legs. We must try to convince people to do so out of personal conviction and use their position in a congregation council to promote green thinking. I guess it's a duty for everyone. It has nothing to do with being religiously green. It has something to do with taking responsibility for this planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121731	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121732	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Thank you for your support. As I saw today, the vast majority of people in this House supported the intentions of the proposal, and so I also see the hope that, after the committee procedure, when we have been in dialogue with each other, and when we have clarified the various issues that exist, we might end up in a place where a similar proposal, or this proposal, could become a reality. I would also like to thank the Radical Left rapporteur, Marianne Jelved. I already said, when I asked questions, that there are opportunities in the form of consultations and in the form of dialogue with the church councils, which we also very much want. I'm very hopeful. I hear good tones. I would, of course, have liked to have broad support for the proposal, but I am confident, and I look forward to further cooperation in relation to the green transition. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121834	I would like to ask the rapporteur just to remember that we are talking in the third person here and that we address each other with Mr Beazley. and Mrs. So it's called Mrs. I want to hear Mr. Christian Juhl, whether there is a follow-up question. There isn't. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121850	Thank you for the floor. In addition to the fact that this proposal is crazy for the sole reason that it is intended to regulate the folk church and the folk church's lands, there is also something bizarre and crazy about arguing for more ecology and more untouched forest for the sake of climate. It is absolutely true that untouched forest and ecology are good for the environment, that it is good for biodiversity, but compared to the climate, it is actually the case that untouched forest emits more CO2 produced unit has a larger climate footprint, i.e. emits more greenhouse gases than conventional agriculture. What is the alternative's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121942	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228121944	Yes, this is the approach of New Citizens because they have not joined the 70-percent climate target, which is why they have this very critical approach to science in the area in terms of climate and environment. It does not necessarily have to be the case that overall ecology will be worse for the climate. It depends on how much we want to produce, what we want to produce for, etc. etc. So I do not share the view that, because this proposal envisages ecology, it should be worse for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122021	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122022	Well, it is indeed an alternative form of logic to completely reject science. It is true that if fewer products are produced, i.e. if we have to feed fewer mouths, it has a lower CO2 but despite the fact that the alternative is very extreme in certain directions, I doubt that in the alternative we are going around thinking that now there are people who are going to die of hunger. That is why it must also be assumed that the food demand that is there today will also be at least the same level in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122057	It would be very, very strange if we were to enter into a discussion about who is extremely new citizens or the alternative. We can take that at another time. If new citizens today ask whether it is all 11 000 hectares of land that are to be converted into untouched forests, I would say that we also support it if it is ecology that prevents new citizens from supporting such a proposal. So if you plan for 11,000 hectares of land to be untouched forest and nature, we'd be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122129	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Sikandar Siddique. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122150	The debate is open. First of all, I should like to welcome the minister of church. Here you go, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122213	Thank you very much. The proposal to remove the recognition of Muslim religions in Denmark could perhaps be confused with banning them, so let me start by distinguishing between the two things, because it is not a prerequisite for being a religion in Denmark that one is recognised. This is the result of constitutional freedom of religion. Since the Constitution of 1849 we have seen freedom of religion as part of the Danish tradition of freedom. And freedom of religion implies a fundamental freedom to choose, cultivate and manifest its religion without public interference, including through the establishment of religious communities and the operation of religions. The only condition is, of course, always that nothing is taught or done which, in the words of the Constitution, is contrary to morality or public order. Paragraph 67 of the Constitution therefore sets the limit for state power overall that it is prevented from taking action against the worship of the citizens in connection with a religious society, if this intervention is justified solely by the disapproval of the religion in question as such. However, the Constitution does not prevent us from making demands if religions are to be recognised and if, in addition to the general, general freedom of religion and association, they are granted special rights through that recognition. There, too, we in Denmark have chosen to have and continue a long-standing practice for religions outside the public church to obtain these special rights... a practice which can in fact be traced back from before the constitution, namely to 1682. Until January 1, 1970, this practice rested on a pre-constitutional custom that religions could be recognized by royal resolution ^ and, as I have just stated in the Committee of Churches, 11 religions were also recognized in 1970 but from 1970 other religions could thus obtain the state's recognition on the basis of criteria described in the pre-work of the Marriage Law. This was done in practice by a religious clergyman who could apply for marriage authorization, and it was a kind of recognition. But it was in fact only in December 2017 that the law of religion, or what is formally called the law of religions outside the popular church, which was passed by a broad political majority, brought this clear and coherent regulation of the conditions of the religious communities. And it entered into force on 1 January 2018. This means that we are now in a situation where, for the first time in a long time, there is an independent law which makes clear the rights and duties of the religions that wish to be recognised in Denmark. If we look first at the rights, what can be gained if you are a recognised religion is to apply for certain additional benefits from other relevant authorities, which can then make additional demands in relation to the relevant legislation. Recognized religions can thus, for example, apply for a residence permit for foreign religious ministers, tax credit and marriage authorization. Recognition, however, also gives creeds a duty to be open about their relationship. I have sketched out the rights, and here come the duties. Recognized religions have a duty to report and publish information about the organization of religious communities and the economy of religious communities, including donations. It happens in the Register of Religions, which the Church Ministry operates. The purpose, it says, of having and establishing this register of religions is to create visibility and openness about the activities of the recognised religions, which interests support them and which they support. The conditions for being recognized are the openness of one's being a religion as defined in Section 1 of the Law on Religion. That is to say, you believe in something that is beyond human beings and nature. In addition, you must have at least 50 senior members with Danish citizenship and permanent residence in Denmark. Last but certainly not least, faith communities must comply with Danish law. It is also worth noting in this connection that the church minister can and also has the authority to withdraw the recognition of a religion if the religion no longer meets the conditions or if it does not comply with the obligations of openness arising from the law of religion. That is what brings us to the proposal here today. Before I conclude on the government's position, I would like to tell you how we got there. For if we remove the possibility of becoming a recognized religion, we also lose insight into the relationship of that religion. The openness that the Register of Religions has given us also helps to highlight the facts of the recognised religions that are here and that we cannot prevent from being here through the Constitution. I believe that increased public debate and awareness of the communities of faith and their relationship are essential in order for us to have that dialogue and that it can help to protect law and order in our societies. So the proposal to remove recognition from all Islamic religions solely because of their religious beliefs is incompatible with these principles of openness, and it is the government's view that a step of this kind would be incompatible with the Constitution. Paragraph 70 of the Constitution also prohibits discrimination in the enjoyment of civil and political rights by reference, inter alia, to: the declaration of faith, and the withdrawal of the recognition of religions solely on the grounds that they profess Islam, or a statutory ban on the recognition of Islamic religions, while religions from other religions can gain recognition through these provisions as set out in the law, is for the government an example of discrimination. That is why the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122850	I would like to thank the minister for the church. There are some brief comments. First of all, I should like to give the floor to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228122857	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for stating what has been the subject of this debate quite a lot, namely that removing recognition from a religion does not conflict with freedom of religion. One has the right to worship in private, even if one does not belong to a religion that is a truly recognized religion. So far so good. I would like to quote mosque researcher Niels Valdemar Vinding from an article in Berlingske in February 2020, where he says: "The conclusion is in its main features that Sharia in many of its sub-elements is part of the texts proposed by the faith communities. This is the basis on which the Ministry of Churches and the Law of the Church have recognised them on the basis of which it can be said that Sharia is recognized in Denmark. In the same article, the Minister says: "At present there is nothing in the law on religion that allows action to be taken. It must come with other legislation. But it should not be possible to act as an alternative court in Denmark, because then you should not be approved. It's gotta stop. What does the Minister intend to do if recognition is not to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123015	The Church Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123016	The questioner himself read out my quote, and it is an expression of the government's position that there should be no doubt that there are no alternative legal provisions in Denmark. However, what the Religious Register and the Religious Act are all about is, in this context, to create only openness about what is going on. I would venture to say that although it is with great attention and concern that we are looking at the things that are coming forward, it is one of the things that is doing, for example. My ministerial colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, has recently submitted a bill for a hearing on donations. And that is the way the government will closely follow the things that come out. But it is something quite different from generally saying that now there is simply a religious direction that has no chance of recognition at all. There are also very many Muslims living in perfect order in accordance with the laws of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123121	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123123	I'm sorry, but it just doesn't make any sense that one hand supports the spread of Islam and Sharia through mosques, among other things. by making tax deductions and by giving people the opportunity to marry, and then with the other hand doing something else and saying that what is going on is deeply problematic and that we must therefore tighten our grip. Thus, when you as a politician recognize a religion, you also assume responsibility for the religious conduct of that religion with the recognition of the state. Doesn't that worry the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123200	The minister of the church, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123201	I think it is a very hard thing to say that you then have to follow New Citizens' proposals in order to be worried and want to follow up on the things that come out in the Religious Register. The government does not want to cut everyone apart, but precisely to give the opportunity, just as the law of religion already describes it, to judge what is happening in concrete congregations. If you do not live up to it, then you can withdraw recognition. There will be an evaluation of the law in 2021, and there I am sure we will have the opportunity to also discuss what has emerged.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123238	Thank you. The next to speak is Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123241	I am very concerned about Muslim schools, and right now there is a debate about the creation of a Muslim kindergarten in Copenhagen. I believe that Muslim schools and kindergartens are working against integration and helping to support values that are detrimental to Danish society. That is why I have a factual question that should have been clarified before, because normally you do not ask factual questions in this Chamber • you ask political questions • but: What does recognition of a religion mean for their ability to establish schools in that religion? In other words, if you are not recognised, you have the same opportunity to set up religious schools and kindergartens, and vice versa, in other words, if you are deprived of recognition, will it be more difficult to be allowed to set up schools based on the values of the unrecognized religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123341	It is true that I cannot answer it on a stand-by basis. There I shall have the opportunity to consult first with the legislation in the field of child care institutions. But I think it is important here that we stick to not beating everyone together. There may be things that are of political concern, including in the government and in concrete Muslim religions, in concrete institutions that are attached to religions, but we must then act on that within the specific laws • what can one say targeted the concrete congregations, and it must be bound up with some rules that are all judged straight from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123423	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123425	Yes, but it is only very important that we maintain that there is no equality. So, the church has a special position, Christianity has a special position in Denmark, and that is what we must maintain, and it should not be challenged. That is why I think this issue is important. However, I recognise, of course, that we cannot expect answers to factual questions in the Assembly and that we should have clarified this ourselves first. But it is dangerous and it is subversive to Danish society if we have many institutions based on a basis of value which simply undermines the Danish basis of value.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123504	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123505	I would say that whatever ideology an institution is based on, they have to comply with the legislation of the specific children's institution. There is therefore an opportunity, as I explained in my ministerial speech, for the specific Ministry of Trade to make further demands. I'm not trying to undermine the peculiarity of the church. When I say that all recognized religions are treated equally before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123537	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123541	Thank you. I do not know if the Minister has read the Koran, but we certainly do have a lot of others. After all, the Sharia Act is a direct violation of all that is contained in our constitution. With this recognition and this sneaking sharia in through the back door, something has been done that is constitutionally unconstitutional. Will the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123604	There is nothing in the religious law as it is now, anything that addresses this issue, and that is why in my previous answer to a question I referred to the evaluation coming in 2021. Because the government is also following with great attention and concern the things this Register brings forward. Among other things, it has. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has already given rise to a hearing of the draft law on donations. But if the government now administers a law which is unconstitutional, then it is a law for which a broad majority in the Folketing is in favour. So that is why we have to go in first and look at the law... not as this motion for a resolution suggests in general to exclude an entire religion from being able to be treated in the same way as that law at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123658	Then I give the floor to Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123706	But the Minister keeps saying that we must treat everyone equally, and by removing this recognition we do not all treat everyone equally. But as I hear the Minister, it is introduced in 2018 • something we ourselves have done here by the Danish Parliament. And it must always be the case that everything we decide here in the Folketing can also be decided back again. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123728	Of course, I agree with that and that is why I am referring to the evaluation. I also just insist that the cases that are coming forward right now are matters that have been politically discussed, but now, for the first time, there is complete transparency about what is actually going on, and these are some of the things we have to take with us when we evaluate the law. But right now to make it clear that the way to conclude is to remove recognition from an entire religious community, I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123803	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123807	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the Minister basically believes that Islam is compatible with democracy, including the guidelines of the Ministry of Churches, about freedom of religion and the right to change and leave its religion and belief.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123825	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123827	I believe that all religions are compatible with democracy if one remembers that democracy is above religion, that is, that the prerequisite for all of us to be able to choose our religion is that we respect democratic guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123840	It does not make sense, and it does not, because if you read the Koran and confess to Islam, there is the death penalty for abandoning your religion. And the guidelines of the Ministry of Churches state that one has freedom of belief, including accepting the right to change religion or to opt out of religious affiliation. That is in direct contradiction with the teachings of Islam. So you cannot both say that you recognise Islam and, on the other hand, say that you recognise the guidelines that come from the Church Ministry itself. Because they're in direct conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123919	It depends on how to read the religious texts. And that's where I think it's important that this Religious Register has given us insight into what sort of things are going on precisely in the religions that are being recognised. 'Cause it's important that we remember that I actually think it was Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who used the phrase "that if religion and democracy collide, it is religion that has a duty to give way. In my world, religious texts are both as a politician and as a human being, but not as legal texts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123955	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228123958	Thank you very much for that, President. I do not think the Minister really answered the question put by Mrs Pernille Vermund before, that is to say, the very specific question in which mosque researcher Niels Valdemar Vinding says, and now I quote: 'The conclusion is in its main features that Sharia, in many of its elements, is part of the texts proposed by the faith communities. This is the basis on which the Ministry of Churches and the Law of the Church have recognised them on the basis of which it can be said that Sharia is recognized in Denmark. Does the Minister really believe that Sharia should be recognised in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124039	I do not believe that Sharia, as a court of law, which is the way it is often addressed, at least to me, should be recognised, because we have only one judicial body in Denmark, and that is the democratic one according to a rule of law. So that is also why I say and am also quoted in the article that this is a matter of concern and that this is something that we are following, and that is why we are following. First up on the donations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124107	Here's the questioner. You should also remember to push in for the second time. But it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124108	Thank you for that answer. Now we have heard the Minister say here that uh, that is worrying, and we have also heard other ministers from the government say that some of the things that come out in connection with the spread of Islam in Denmark are shocked. We simply have to act on this. You can't just keep saying that uh, you're shocked, uh, you're worried, and everything else. What exactly does the Minister intend to do? In concrete terms, is the Minister intending to withdraw recognition from the Muslim religions, for which the Minister is so concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124148	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124149	There are, of course, a number of these information that we follow up on from the Church Ministry, but I can only take recognition from them if I have a legal basis for it. Right now, I only have the legal basis to do so under the legislation that is now in place. Compared to whether what is then in the faith communities, for example, reaches into. The area of the Ministry of Justice in relation to having such definite legal consequences or into the area of children's institutions, as Mrs Marie Krarup brought up, is something that needs to be dealt with in the specific ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124224	Thank you to the church minister. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124238	Thank you. The Social Democracy's first program, the Gimle Program from 1876, says: Religion is declared a private matter. And it is a foundation and an expression on which the Social Democracy still stands. Because what does that mean? This means that there must be room for religious and ethical reasons, but that no one should be able to pressure others into action on the basis of a religious motive. We have and must have equality before the law, and the law is laid down by the Folketing. The church of the people, almost 75%. of the Danes are members of, naturally have a number of tasks and rights related to among others. Weddings and registrations. It also has a number of other religions, which we therefore refer to as recognized religions. In this respect, it is important to note that recognition is understood solely as recognition of the rights of religious communities and that it is not a recognition or appreciation of their beliefs of a religious, spiritual or ethical nature, and that is good, because religion must be a private matter in the legislative sense. That is why it is also important for the Social Democrats to emphasise that recognition of a religion or the withdrawal of recognition takes place in the light of whether the religion meets the criteria of recognition. This applies, among other things, to: the number of members, the accuracy of the annual accounts, and, above all, the proper functioning of the legislative framework. In short, do the recognized religions live up to democratic law? The resolution tabled by the new citizens expresses a concern for democracy, and that is understandable. For religious rhetoric and organization can be used to counter and harm democracy. In this situation, it is important that we, as legislators, remember our starting point, namely that we as legislators must set up legislation that equals all Danish citizens and that is transparent and democratic. It must also live up to, and a conscientious and thorough examination of the conditions of the recognized religions, including their cooperation with donors, is, of course, a matter of course. The Social Democrats are not voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. As I have said, if the communities of faith comply with the agreed rules of recognition, they must be given the opportunity to gain recognition and they do not comply with the rules, they must lose recognition on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124625	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. First, it's for Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124629	Thank you very much, President. Well, it's a pleasure to hear that at least you want to act a little. More and more mosques are being built in Denmark and many of them are being built in social democratic municipalities. The rapporteur's party colleague, the church minister, himself inaugurated a mosque when she was Mayor of Roskilde. There men and women could be seen to be divided. Of course, when we grant privileges to Muslim religions, Islamic rules and lifestyles are also introduced • men and women are separate. Does the Social Democratic Party sincerely believe that privileges should be given to religions that do not support gender equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124723	Mrs. Julie Skovsby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124724	I believe that the religions which are recognised and which comply with the rules must retain their recognition and function. Those who do not comply with the rules must have rejected their recognition, and that is what is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124749	Is there another comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124751	The reason why I mention this is that the Social Democrats are making a great deal of money out of telling them that they are very, very aware of this gender issue, and so I share the concern that we see that women and men are not equal in Islam. And that is what leads me to my question on how to actually consecrate a mosque and make a great speech and also stately acknowledge a religion that does not buy into one of the most fundamental values in Denmark, namely gender equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124832	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124834	I am also concerned when equality legislation is being violated, and it does so in Denmark, and then we intervene; we have to do so as a Parliament. I think it is important in every case where democratic rights are not respected, and a person is harmed by this because that is also what happens when we intervene on the part of the Folketing. For us, it is important to say that associations, associations and religions are treated equally. They must follow Danish legislation, and if they do not, they must have taken away their recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124921	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124925	I would like to ask whether the rapporteur knows what the word Islam means.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124934	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228124936	That's a big question. I'm not a theologian. Let me put it this way: what concerns me is, as I said, whether organisations and groupings, whether they are religious, whether they are political or what they are, comply with the law. If they don't, we have to take action on the part of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125005	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125006	Islam means submission. Not subjection to democratic rights or a legal system, but submission to Allah. And when one recognises Islamic religions, one recognises the basic premise that it is subjection to Allah who is at the forefront. And when you do not want to deprive Islamic religions of their right, you recognise that it is quite okay on Danish soil.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125036	I have, however, been able to agree to whether we comply with the legislation and the rules that we have laid down in the legislation that was specifically decided in relation to this and which was decided in December 2017: do we live up to that legislation, or do we not? And in the other subject areas we can also go in and check. Thank you from the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125124	The next one to which I am going to give the floor is Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125127	Thank you. I think New Citizens should read what is called the creed in the people's church. It has certain elements of submission. We can come back to that later. I would like to talk about the law of religion, which was regulated in 2017. There I had an experience with the then church minister Mrs. Mette Bock. She wanted to remove the paragraph that demands equality and an internal democracy in the church. And then I thought, "Well, okay, it was a knee-down for Islam, or what was it?" We had a little personal conversation about it, and then I say, "Why are you doing this?" And I said you told her, 'cause it wasn't here in Parliament. And then she said: No, that was not why, but we have a very, very old religion in Denmark that is older than the church of the people, namely the Catholic Church, and they will not practise democracy because their leaders must be approved and appointed in Rome, and they will not accept that women can be priests, and therefore we had to remove that paragraph in order not to exclude the Catholic Church from recognized religions. And I mean, where are we if we say that Islam does not recognise equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125251	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125252	Perhaps now I do not think the rapporteur reached the point. However, I have great respect for the fact that the rapporteur has been a church rapporteur, even when the law on religions outside the church was adopted in December 2017. And I actually think that there is room for us to continue working on the Committee on Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125328	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125330	Oh, yeah, well, now it's short remarks. That is why we are saying that we must have a dialogue. I will make a statement and then the rapporteur can make another statement. We voted against the removal of that paragraph of the law of religion. Just as we voted against what the minister of church quoted now, I cannot find it at all with believing in something that is above human beings and above nature. This means that a number of societies that more believe that it is the life we live here on earth and the things we can see and hear and measure that matter to us cannot be recognized religions. We must believe in something supernatural, and we also voted against it. What I am saying is that there are a lot of grotesque things in the law of religion, but we live with it, and that is why we must treat people equally from the law. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125419	Again, respect for the fact that the rapporteur has been involved in the concrete legislative process that took place at that time in 2017. And I know that Enhedslisten has also mentioned the part that is about whether to extend it to not only religions. Let me just say that we have to look into it carefully when we have a committee reading. We will also, as the Minister mentioned, have a revision of the law in 2021. There it will also be so topical for the Committee on Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125500	Thank you. And the next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125504	Thank you. When I was a member of the Danish Parliament for another party, namely the Left, at the time, I often tried to raise some discussions on, among others, the parliamentary group. equality, including the law that says that male priests do not need to shake hands with their female colleagues. At that time it was always read and written by the scribes and theologians that it is interference in church affairs to discuss equality within the Danish National Church and the other Danish Christian religions. Therefore, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether she can confirm that there are also a large number of religions in the Christian faith, not least where I come from, namely the Middle Jutland, where equality is not something that is so considered to be the most important thing in life, perhaps rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125610	Mrs. Julie Skovsby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125611	Of course, totalitarian thinking can be everywhere, and is there a mix of ideology and religion? Yes, it happens in totalitarian thinking. What I am talking about is that regardless of whether you think in religion or whether you think in ideology, you have to comply with Danish legislation. It must be our primary task to ensure that you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125653	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125655	I fully agree with that and it was not to come after the rapporteur. By the way, I haven't talked about totalitarianism in this. I may have talked more about practice religion than just attitude religion. And this was due to the fact that Mrs Mette Thiesen perhaps tried to create a picture that Islam did not per. automatic respect for equality and that Muslim religions do not respect equality, but that they do so unconditionally in Christianity. That truth must at least be addressed with certain modifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125734	Mrs. Julie Skovsby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125736	Everyone must respect equality, and it is, of course, whatever religion he has or if he has no religion at all. That is my answer to how practice religion is practiced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125752	There are no more brief comments to Mrs Skovsby, there will be one more. I mean, you know, it's a little clever. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125807	I'm sorry; I've been intruding a long time ago. I don't know what happened here. One of the privileges you get when you are a recognized religion is, after all, the privilege of marriage. Recently there was a report that quite violently documented that Muslim women were denied divorce in their religions and that they were not just denied divorce, but that they were subjected to threats to death threats and violence if they wanted to divorce their husband. And it probably doesn't surprise people who know about Islam, because the Muslim marriage called nikah says it's not possible to divorce unless you have the man's consent. There were loud voices from both the Social Democrats and other parties on the left in this connection, because this was completely unacceptable. Nevertheless, the Minister, who is also a Social Democrat, says that at this stage there is no legal basis for doing anything about these religions. Should we not, as a responsible party, change the law if we do not have the legal basis to do something about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228125919	Let me start by saying that we have only one legal system in Denmark, and neither Sharia nor any other religious standards have any legal validity in Denmark. We all agree on that. Then there's the law. And in relation to the law passed in December 2017, one might ask: What are the options there? So, what opportunities, as the Minister mentioned, in other trade ministries to go in and make demands, is there for more democratic behaviour than what we are seeing today? And, as the Minister mentioned, there is an evaluation under way which we, as Parliament and as the Committee on Churches, must deal with. Let us go further and look into those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130021	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130023	It is absolutely true that we have no courts other than the one that is part of the rule of law and our democracy. But the fact is, as the mosque scholar, who was previously referred to, writes in Berlingske, that by recognising the Muslim religions they have de facto recognised Sharia and Sharia courts. The report here shows what this has to do with women who are allowed to marry Islamically and who want to get out of their marriage. Then it is true that one could say to the Muslim women: you just have to do it anyway. But the other day we could read a story about a Funen woman who's been killed in Syria. She wanted to divorce her Muslim husband. She was not; instead she was stoned with her 9-year-old son. That is what we are helping to recognise when we recognise the Islamic religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130115	As I said in my speech, there is no legal recognition or appreciation of religious, spiritual, or ethical beliefs of different religions. Then there are, in fact, some very serious problems, and there I share the concern expressed here in the motion for a resolution. And, as I have promised in the past, this is something we are going to have to deal with in the Committee on Churches. Let us continue to work on the question of where things belong, that is to say what kind of technical ministries they belong to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130158	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Welcome to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130208	Thank you for that and thank you for the discussion. It is always fun to discuss some things that are a little higher up, and this is a discussion about a negative freedom right, the right to believe in what you want. I understand you're saying that you can believe it, and then it's just unrecognized. But then everyone isn't equal before the law if it's not proven that you break the law if you can't bring anything. That is why this is an ideological discussion, and I really think it is very funny that we should be allowed to discuss a little ideology. I'm both bourgeois and liberal. I am in favour of negative freedoms such as the right to believe in what you want, and I believe that everyone should be treated equally before the law. Does that mean that I think everything is amazing as it is? No, it doesn't. So what's the constructive way to do this? That is to say that we have now made this register of religions, which I think is very good, because it requires what needs to be disclosed before one can be recognised as a religion. It gives us a little leash in these organizations, these religions, because we can demand something from them. Now we have started by demanding visibility, and that has given something. It has shown us that there are some donors to these religions that are just not okay. It is not okay to question how independent different religions can be, and we have to delve into that more. That's obvious. But then that's the way to go. Then you have to see if they break the rules in any way. Is it the case that some foreign countries are trying to promote something that should run in parallel with the Danish legal community? That is the way to go, because that is what we must attack. If it is that we go in and say that we must remove the recognition of an entire religion just because they believe in it, then you throw the baby out with the bathwater. Because I believe that what New Citizens want is to defend democracy, but it is democracy that goes out if not everyone is equal before the law. So I think we should be aware of what we are doing to avoid the terrible examples we see in some places and to stick to the fundamental democratic principles we have and look at how we can then construct it so that we can avoid some abuse of the generosity and indulgence we have in an open society such as the Danish one. Because I want a society where we are all allowed to be where women can go to work if they want to go to work and can divorce if they want to divorce. I do not like social control, so let us attack those parts, but completely removing the recognition of all Muslim religions is also a little to say that there are no Muslims who believe in democracy, and that is what is happening there. At least I believe that. Thank you for raising the debate. It is always good to have it debated, and it may be able to spark up a discussion in committee on what we can make of additional demands to ensure that one can be recognised as a religion. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130501	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130508	Thank you for the floor. It is frightening to hear a church rapporteur for the Left have so little knowledge of Islam. Of course there are Muslims who are also democratically minded, but we are talking here about Islam and the Muslim religions. We are talking here about the essence of Islam. We are not talking about the individual's right to cultivate his faith. And it is bizarre that one has been at the head of a government that has introduced a series of measures: handshake law, ghetto package, and what do I know to mitigate the negative consequences of Islam, and that at the same time one maintains recognition and thus the special privileges that come with recognition, as if Islam is in some places okay, as if there were an Islam light or euroislam. Does the rapporteur think that Islam is okay in some places? Can the rapporteur point to one place in the world where Islamic influence in society has been for the better, has created more democracy and more freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130610	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130612	It is always thought-provoking when a rapporteur chooses to start by demeaning the others when he needs to distance himself from others in this way and say that he himself is much wiser than everyone else. I prefer to believe that we all make our own opinions. There are many different Muslim religions... there is not just one. There are the two major superiors, Sunni and Shia, and within them there are a number of different directions, and I am sure the rapporteur is well aware of this. You can be a wahhabist if you're from Saudi Arabia there you're typically wahhabist, and these are the ones I'm quite worried about, because they're relatively extreme. Then there are salafists and alawites there are all sorts of different directions. And no, I don't think they're all the same, but I'd like to know if New Citizens think all Muslim directions are the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130655	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130655-2	My question was, in a sense, whether Islam has freed a society anywhere in the world, has freed people, has contributed to more democracy and more security, or whether Islam has not done the opposite, regardless of the direction in question, namely oppressed people, suppressed the secular thoughts that have been in a society, i.e. that the Islamic awakening, including in the Middle East and North Africa, is of the evil and not of the good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130727	New Citizens' rapporteur insists on talking about Islam as one large quantity and that Islam is what governs the countries. I am well aware that in many countries there is no secular regime, but that is not the same as saying that all Muslims and Islam can be equated, if that is what is meant by it. Because it's not quite clear. What's that supposed to mean? Does one think that it has a meaning when there is democracy in a country? Is it the influence of Islam or the individual Muslim that is being attacked here? I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130754	The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130757	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say that when one has a certain belief, one must also have it recognised as a religion. I have to confirm this because that is what the rapporteur said, namely that if you have a certain faith, you also have a right to have it recognised, otherwise we will not live up to the rights that you should have in Denmark. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130818	I said I believe in negative freedoms as the right to believe. And the right to believe is to believe what you want. At the same time, I believe that we are all equal before the law, and that is why we must be judged on the basis of the same rules. Then you can change the rules if you want to tighten up, but these are the same rules that we must all be judged by. And these are both important elements of a democracy, that is, that we are all equal before the law and that we have the right to believe in what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130842	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130843	That's very nice, too. That is not exactly what the rapporteur said. But as I hear it here, it sounds almost radical, because the Radical Left would also rather have terrorists to Denmark, because then we can judge them here and keep an eye on them here. And then I hear that the Left says: Well, we would rather acknowledge Islam and have Islam in Denmark, because then we can keep an eye on it. Well, there is also the other solution where we say: No, Islam should not have a role in Denmark. And then, of course, we will not recognise it with some false reference to the fact that we can then keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130916	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130916-2	It's very funny to put words in my mouth and imply that I should think that it's just super fine with parallel societies. I'm well aware that sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen did not use the word parallel societies, but that is what Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen indicates. On the other hand, I said that I would like to fight parallel societies. I would like to combat social control, but we have to do so so that everyone is equal before the law. Let us therefore look at what we can create of a framework to ensure that we do not have parallel societies and social control, while at the same time keeping everyone equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130940	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the DF, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228130951	There is freedom of religion in Denmark, and that is important. Freedom of religion is not unconditional. It is limited in section 67, which states that nothing must be taught that is contrary to morals or public order. We have to hold on to that. We don't have the equality of religion. Christianity has a special position in Denmark. Denmark is a Christian country. In fact, there is a picture of a Christian cross in our national symbol. So there is no doubt that Christianity has a special position, and it must remain so, among other things. Because the freedom we have here in Denmark stems from the Christian tradition. The large immigration from the 1980s and beyond has made Islam very visible and very present in Danish society. Islam is a completely different religion from Christianity. It gives rise to a very high degree of freedom in which Christianity gives rise to freedom. It is important that we maintain freedom of religion in Denmark, so of course one should be able to be a Muslim in Denmark, but it has never ever been intended that Denmark should give way to so many Muslims, and this in itself gives rise to major problems. We have very major integration problems around the country, and this is because we have two so different religions present within our small territory, and this is because the presence of Islam has become so violent. You should never, never, ever have allowed that to happen. This should have been foreseen and anyone who has the slightest knowledge of religions anticipated it and knew that this would cause problems. Nevertheless, no one reacted in time. For if the number of Muslims had been kept at the same level as the number of Jews in Denmark, it would never have caused problems. Then, with great ease, one would have had a minority religion that could have lived in freedom and quite unnoticed. However, at the moment when we are talking about so many people, some of whom want special status in schools and kindergartens and nursing homes and public institutions, this is causing a whole series of problems and clashes. In this context, it is just very important to stick to the fact that Islam should not have a special position in Denmark. That is why we must also keep a close eye on whether the Islam preached in the various religions actually remains within the scope of Article 67 of the Constitution. We must keep an eye on whether something is being preached that is against morality and public order, and we should certainly not accept that there are religious courts which judge in cases in which they have no jurisdiction to judge, because it is the Danish judicial system that has the right to judge there. So we need much more attention to the Islamic religions. That is why we welcome this resolution, because we do not believe that sufficient attention has been paid to the individual religions. In fact, the reason why the Danish People's Party supported the new law on the recognition of religions was that more attention was paid to the individual religions; there was more opportunity to keep an eye on what they are really doing. But I'm not sure we're gonna keep an eye on what's actually being preached. I think this is an opportunity which should be used to a greater extent, so that both the constitution and the law on the recognition of religions should be enforced to a greater extent. So that's the one thing I see you can use this motion for a resolution for. The second is that you can explore the possibility of saying that there are some religions that traditionally belong in Denmark and that we have known for many centuries. They must of course be allowed to be here, and they can enjoy some special privileges: of course Christianity with the very great privilege that the church has, but also the others who have been here for a very long time. At some point you have to stop, and then you don't have to do it anymore. Then there are some who are newcomers and do not have the same tradition and thus the same right, and I think that is another way to go about it. So we take a positive view of this resolution and would very much like to help shape what is behind the motion for a resolution in a sensible way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131450	Thank you very much. The rapporteur must remain on the platform. There are some brief comments. First of all, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131456	Thank you for the floor and just a thank you to DF for supporting and being constructive. It is gratifying and I would like to say that I did not expect anything else either. It is nice to know that there are people who have insight into Islam, insight into what is happening to our society and who are in and running for these matters to be fought. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131526	I have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131528	I assume that there was only one brief comment. Yes, and then the next brief remark to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131533	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur to make a few comments on the President's statement on this: we want to promote European Islam. Could the rapporteur make a few comments on whether the rapporteur shares the position of the President of the party or whether she believes that it is a utopia and that a European form of Islam cannot be promoted and that Islam cannot be reformed in this way so that it can be adapted to democratic values in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131607	In other words, the internal showdown of Islam on how to interpret Islam is not something that can be influenced as a Christian. This is something the Muslims themselves must be messing with. The Koran cannot be changed; it is as it is. It is a very, very scary writing, but in relation to the way one interprets it, there are some different discussions within Islam, and if there is an interpretation that is nonviolent and that in many ways can be in line with the values that we celebrate in Denmark, it will be fine, and then it is something that we others will be more positive about than for example. a Wahabist interpretation which is totally unacceptable and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131700	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131701	I fully agree with that. When I ask about it, it is because you use the expression that you want to promote. It is an active act that you want to promote something rather than something else. As the rapporteur says, Islam must find out for itself, and that is also why I wondered why it was put forward as if it were something that one actively wants to promote and that it is thus interfering in and actively committed to highlighting one form of Islam rather than another. It is, of course, in the statement that we want to promote something. So that's why I asked for clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131731	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131732	But I do think that what I said earlier about watching the individual religions and seeing if they comply with section 67 of the Constitution has to do with it. Because if we have a religion that is harmless and does not do anything ugly, if I may say so, then it can be recognised and then we can say that we are promoting it, right? Conversely, the religions which preach things that do not conform to morality and public order should not be recognised and should not be promoted. So I don't think there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131811	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the DF. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228131820	Thank you. After all, when elected to the Folketing for the first time, all members of parliament sign that they will abide by the Constitution. It's a great ceremony, for it does, because I almost said we were some kind of swearing brothers. There's something we share here. I have a little beautiful book about the Constitution that I often have with me. I would like to quote a few words from that. Paragraph 67 states: "Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that agrees with their beliefs, but nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. ▪ Paragraph 69 states: • The conditions of deviant religions are arranged more closely by law. ▪ In fact, we have such a law in Denmark, and it is called the law on religions outside the church. I would also like to quote a few words from it. Among other things, it says:In this law, religion is understood to mean a community whose members gather for a belief in powers that are above men and natural laws, according to designed doctrines and rituals. It then states that a religion is recognised if at least 50 members have permanent residence in Denmark or Danish citizenship and do not call for or do anything contrary to provisions laid down by law. This means that all other legislation in Denmark must be complied with by those who have received recognition of their beliefs. It also says, and I would ask you to take note of this, that in order to be recognised as a religion a number of documents have to be submitted, for example. the following, and I quote: "A text which expresses, describes or refers to the foundation of belief or the tradition of doctrine in the religion of the religious community. ▪ Next, it says: "Documentation or description of the central rituals of the religious community. You also have to give your address and stuff like that. Finally, this law concludes with the following: • Recognition is entered in the Register of Religions, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Churches. It is the register that actually contains all the descriptions I have just mentioned here, about every religion recognised in Denmark, according to the law I have spoken about here, and to the constitution. I would actually call for access to documents to see what is actually written. What have the various religions, which have been recognized in Denmark, actually provided as proof, description and reference to the religious foundation or tradition of the religion of the religion? What have they provided as a description of the religion's central rituals? It must of course provide an insight into what has been used to give them recognition in Denmark instead of all sorts of ideas or rumors or what we hear and read in all sorts of different places about what Islam is. In fact, I think we should do a small evening school where we try to grow it together to find out what really needs to be done. I'm just trying to be constructive and get into a dialogue that could lead to something better than it would otherwise be. There is equality before the law in Denmark. This means that if a religion meets the requirements of the law on religions outside the church to which I referred, they can be recognized as religions on an equal footing with other religions. What is happening now with the help of this motion for a resolution is that New Citizens do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution concerning other religions. It says directly in the motion for a resolution, and I quote: "The Parliament instructs the government to make the necessary proposals to remove the recognition of Muslim religions in Denmark. There are therefore some who are not recognised, despite being recognised in the Ministry of Church according to the rules which have been legislated from there. That is why I think we have a certain common obligation to take a look at what is actually the basis for that approval in the Ministry of Churches so that we can get it straight. It's an offer that might interest you. Of course, you don't know that. But in any case, I consider this resolution to be a call from the New Citizens' Party for the Folketing as a whole to break the Constitution. And it is, despite the fact that the party members have signed that they will abide by the Constitution. The Radical Left rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132314	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are some brief comments. First of all, I should like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132321	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, what nonsense. As the Minister began by saying in his speech, this is by no means unconstitutional. It is about which religions are given a privilege and which do not. Let me start with a quote from the rapporteur's chairman, Mr President. Morten Østergaard, from a post on Facebook on 25 February 2020, and I quote: "I simply cannot bear to think that Denmark is a country where women are oppressed in the name of religion! We should not stand up for the fact that immigrant women like Bisan are being forced to stay here because their men do not want them to go to school or work with other men. In Denmark, everyone must be free to decide their own lives. Women like men! ▪ Does the Radical Left recognise that these problems are related to Islam and Muslim culture? Why does the Radical Left think that we should actively support this spread? So we are not talking about freedom of religion. We are talking about why we should grant privileges and thus welcome women's oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132438	I acknowledge the quote. That's not what I'm questioning at all. But I do not recognise the premise behind the member of the New Citizens' Party who has just spoken, Mette Thiesen, that it is specifically about a particular religion. It's about all the men who behave that way. It is not just associated with a particular religion. You can also find really old-fashioned men who are members of the church and who have also thought that their wives should never go out to work. It is a culture which is unfortunate and which we must do something to influence. I would like to help influence that. But that this is linked to a particular religion and to the recognition that has been made under the provisions of the Constitution and the law we have on this issue, I simply refuse to accept it. That is why I propose that we get to grips with what has actually been recognised when we talk about Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132539	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132540	Unlike the Radical Left rapporteur, I know Islam well and, as the mosque researcher I quoted earlier said, Sharia has also been actively recognised by this law. Now we heard the rapporteur of the Left who said that this was a funny debate. This isn't a funny debate; this is really serious. The rapporteur does not recognise that where we see social control, major problems with social control, major problems with women's oppression, major problems with ghetto formation, major problems with, for example, the fact that women cannot get a divorce, etc. etc., are you Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132625	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132627	I think it's really serious, too. I would like to emphasise this and that is why I use the Constitution as much as I do. And that is why I would remind you that New Citizens have also signed that we must abide by the Constitution. What New Citizens do is not want to abide by the Constitution. They want to isolate one particular religion from some beliefs. Yeah, that's what's being said. I also have ears to hear with and eyes to watch with to mention it all. So I would like to stress once again that there are a great many Muslims living in Denmark. That is correct and there are quite a few of those living in the vulnerable residential areas. The rest is well integrated into Danish society around, and they are not part of the ghetto plans. I don't remember how many it is, but it's less than 100,000 of the Muslims living in ghettos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132718	Then we'll come to Mr. Knox's office. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132721	Thank you. First of all, I think we should simply ask the Ministry to answer whether this proposal is unconstitutional. Let us clarify this once and for all. If it is stated from the Chair that a motion for a resolution in the Folketing is unconstitutional, I would like to help us clarify whether that is the case; I think that is appropriate. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The Church Ministry's guidance for the approval of religions states that one should recognise the right to change religion or opt out of religious affiliation. Does the rapporteur think that this is also the case with Islam, in other words, that people can simply leave Islam freely?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132805	Yeah, I mean that. In a democracy like the Danish one is the answer: Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132810	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132812	Then I would recommend that I do not put words in the mouth of anyone, but now the rapporteur himself said that you had ears and eyes and that you look into society and talk to some of the girls, all the women who live under social control and who do not want to be subject to social control, the man-dominated thing that is based on Islam and that is justified through Islam, that is to say that you have a conversation with those women in crisis homes who cannot leave their men because of Islam. Then I think we will have a different view; then it is based on Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132848	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132850	I fully agree that there are things going on in Danish society that should never happen there and that we need institutions that can take care of it and help, for example. the young women who are subjected to the kind of dominion over one that the rapporteur is currently describing. I myself have been on the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and have helped to give priority to this type of aid to the young girls we are talking about here. That is why we also need aid measures. We need to improve the culture that is in some places in our society. I'd like to be a part of that too. But to characterize a religion by people who abuse their power of a physical or other nature towards women, I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132935	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228132937	Thank you for the floor. The resolution here certainly does not aim to change religious freedom, people must believe and think what they want, and Muslims must of course do so in Denmark too. However, we have a number of recognised religions where it is proven in a recently published research report that there has been a "what to say" repression of women, who are not just social, but are actually also about the fact that with violence and death threats they have said to these women: you must not get an Islamic divorce, you must stay with your husband unless the man accepts the divorce. So it is women who are Islamic poisons, because the privilege of politicians has given to the Islamic religions, and now the report shows that these women are caught up in their Islamic religions, albeit not by the Danish legal system, but by the Islamic religions. But these are the ones politicians in here have given recognition. Is that not a little bit of concern on the part of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133047	That is actually why I am referring to the fact that according to the law I mentioned earlier on the recognition of different religions in Denmark outside the popular church, every religion delivers its own text, which expresses, describes or refers to the religious foundation or tradition of the religion of the religion. I really wanted to see what it says. I have become curious about this, and therefore I have no objection, together with New Citizens, to going to the Ministry of Church and saying: can we have access to this? Similarly, there must be evidence or description of the central rituals of the religious community. It might be interesting to see how you answer that question. What is the basis on which they have been recognized as religions outside the church? I would like to know that, and I am sure that New Citizens will.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133139	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133140	We would very much like to do so, and we are actually listening when this mosque scientist, who has been mentioned a few times in today's debate, says that what he sees as the basis for their recognition is precisely Sharia, so that by recognizing these religions they have also recognised Sharia and thus Sharia courts. It is quite concrete evidence that the foremost mosque researcher in Denmark says: We have a problem, you have recognised some religions, which in fact should not be recognised in my world at least and which should not be recognised with a democratic Danish view. However, I am glad if the rapporteur wants to go constructively to that part of the work and say that, of course, we should not have religions that practise death threats and threats of violence against women.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133236	Yes, I also quoted another place which I think is really central, and I shall now see if I can find it in all my notes here: a religion can be recognised if 50 members have permanent residence in Denmark or Danish citizenship, and it does not encourage or do anything contrary to provisions laid down by law. It is also central, and I think it actually requires a real insight into what kind of process it is when it comes to recognising a religion in Denmark. What are the annexes to texts to be obtained? I don't want to go into a discussion about Sharia I know just too little about it but I've had party colleagues who have discussed that theme, and therefore I just have a feeling that there are many different ways to look at Sharia. But I don't know enough to say anything sensible about this right now. But I would also like to try to learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133353	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133359	I would like to ask the rapporteur: does Mrs Marianne Jelved not recognise that there are some Islamic directions which preach things that are contrary to section 67, that is to say that are contrary to public order and morality in Denmark, for example. Islamic tendencies preaching the killing of apostates, of Jews, of homosexuals, and that women have little value? Does the rapporteur not recognise that such preachers and directions within Islam exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133438-2	I will not deny that at all, not because I have met them myself, but I have also read newspapers sometimes, just to take one source. But what I have problems with is if we do not also recognise that the kind of actions we can distance ourselves from with disgust, etc., are also taking place in places other than where there are Muslims. And that is why it may not necessarily have anything to do with the way one perceives Islam when seeking to become a recognized religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133518	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133519	But that's not relevant in this context. In other words, the fact that communists preach the killing of capitalists has nothing to do with the recognition of Islamic religions. It's really unpleasant that communists can do it, and we can condemn it, but it just doesn't have anything to do with this. I think it is quite important to examine whether the individual religions actually live up to §67, and I think that we should be much more active in investigating it. Because if the rapporteur acknowledges that such a good thing can happen, does the rapporteur not agree with me that it would be wise to start to practice supervision to a greater extent, so that one is sure that this kind of sermon, contrary to section 67, does not take place in Denmark in recognised religions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133612	Before answering that question, and it will not be today that I am answering that question, I would like to look into the documents to which I referred and which are used for the recognition of religions in Denmark, i.e. religions outside the church. And I would like to come back to all those issues that Mrs Krarup also raises. I would just like to state that I have faith in the legislation that is in Denmark and I have not received any examples of that I should not have. And that is why I would like to see what these provisions actually contain and how they relate to the issue that the rapporteur also raises, for example. with violence in the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133652	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Sir. Christian Juhl will pass. It's okay. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133718	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, my party colleague, who is the rapporteur, is prevented, so I have promised to read her text. In Denmark we have freedom of religion. Whether you are a Buddhist, a Muslim, a Jew, a Hindu, a Christian, or whether you choose not to believe in anything at all is minor. It is a constitutional right that people can believe what they want. That is why the SF cannot in any way support New Citizens' proposals. This resolution is not only an expression of a desire to restrict freedom of religion in Denmark, but also an expression of systematic discrimination against a group based on the religion of the New Citizen, which is also a violation of the spirit of the Constitution. The SF wants a society which, on the one hand, accepts and respects religious diversity and, on the other hand, is a state in which religion is never above democratic decisions and rights and where the inviolability of each citizen is above religious considerations and ideas which may be expressed and practiced by different religions. The SF wants all recognized religions to be treated in the same way as the church of the people in relation to rights and duties, so that the same demands are made on all. That is why the SF cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133852	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133856	That's where I was disturbed to send a text. That was too much, because does the rapporteur really believe that the people's church will be deprived of the natural, traditional position of the religion that we in Denmark particularly support? Will the SF change section 4 of the Constitution and equate all religions in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133923	Now it is not my speech, but I would like to make it clear that the SF is in favour of freedom of religion and that everyone is equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133936	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228133938	There is It is the Constitution that says that the church has a special position in the country. We do not have religion, and if the rapporteur or anyone who has written the rapporteur's speech really thinks that it should be changed, then the basic law that needs to be changed is the one that needs to be changed, and I very much reject that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134007	I don't quite know what you've been thinking when you wrote this, but I just want to say that it's still important for the SF that there's equality before the law, also in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134022	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134025	Although I am relatively new in the Folketing, I am aware that when you stand on the platform, you are the rapporteur. When you give a rapporteur's speech, it is the one for which you are responsible. The rapporteur has just given a speech on behalf of the SF, in which the rapporteur says that we want religion. This means that we want a change in the constitution. At the same time, the basic law is being so strongly hailed that one begins to mess around in this concept of freedom of religion and to say that we do not have freedom of religion unless we grant special privileges to all regions. This is simply nonsense. If anyone knows the difference between what comes out of the Islamic religions, the rapporteur should be aware of what is preached by the so-called literal beliefs and then the life that one can live with religious freedom, also as a Muslim in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134128	Thank you, and thank you for teaching me how to make a speech and how responsible you are for that speech. Now I just want to say that New Citizens must be the last to talk about both Danish values and the Constitution. Because with this proposal they make it actually very clear that they do not respect the Danish values, which actually imply equality before the law. New citizens would like to see one discriminate against a particular group because one has simply got Islam on the brain, without even knowing what Islam is basically about. So New Citizens must be the last to lecture me on what Islam and the Islamic religions are based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134217	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134218	I find it remarkable and worrying that it is considered discriminatory that we say that there is a religious community which has been granted some privileges and which openly misuses these privileges. It is a religion which has been given the right to marry people but which refuses to divorce women. It is a religion that receives state support, that can deduct its quota from tax, and abuse it. It is a religion which in every way counteracts the freedom and equality that we have in our society. Well, it seems very, very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134310	We advocate freedom of religion, religion, and that everyone is equal before the law. The new rules from 2017 clearly state that there must be a list of recognised religions so that they can be supervised. It is democracy, and it is the principles of the rule of law that are followed in the way that is done and done by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134338	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134340	Thank you. It is fair to say that the rapporteur is not responsible for what is in a speech, but the rapporteur is responsible for what the rapporteur says on the platform. And from the platform, it has just been said that one wants religion. So I assume that is SF's position when there is one on the platform saying that one wants religionism. So could one confirm that the SF wants religious equality, so that all religions should be treated equally? And could one then confirm that this proposal is in fact unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134411	Yes, in the sense that everyone has the right to believe in what they want and to gather together. That is what the text means. And I know that New Citizens would like to misunderstand what I have said, but that is what the text says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134428	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134430	I know it is Friday, but so the rapporteur simply has to recognise the difference between freedom of belief, freedom of religion and religion. Well, these are basic concepts. And if we can't just sort of agree on what those concepts mean, then we can't have a discussion about this at a fairly decent level. Here we are not talking about freedom of belief, but the SF stands from the platform and says that there should be equality of religion Is that SF's policy? And apparently we cannot get a clear answer to that. So I ask again: is that SF's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134511	It was really, really good that New Citizens just found a small corner here to abuse exactly what I have said. When we say corpse, it means that all religions and practitioners of the various religions are equal to the law. That is what is meant by it in the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134534	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228134552	I don't know why, but I think of Ebbe Klivedal Reich's song about Skipper Klement, who fought against the black priests when I hear this debate. Before I get started, I would like to say hello from the alternative, which was going to a crucial meeting. The rapporteur asks me to welcome and say that he does not support the proposal because it is contrary to the Constitution. At least that was a short announcement. I think it is good for democracy to guarantee freedom of belief and the right to believe, and for my part also the right not to believe. It is very difficult for many to understand that this right is an equally important right. It is faith to believe in something that is above human beings and nature, it says in our law on religions, but I would like to challenge it, because I think it is a mistake that we are not also adding to those societies of life that do not believe in higher powers but believe in the life and reality in which we live. We in Denmark have a ban on discrimination, with which we must balance this, and I believe that we must fight extremism in all religions. We have had a fight in Denmark for 500 years to clean up and to build ourselves a democratic and circular society, and if anyone would dare to claim that it is because of the church that we have got that society, I would say that it is wrong. It is in battle with religions and churches and powerful people that we have built up our society. Nevertheless, I think we should defend the right to freedom of belief and the right not to believe. It is part of a democratic outlook that I like. I'd like to tell you a little story that's made me a lot smarter. There is an artist in Odense called Jens Galschiot, and he made a very, very large installation that is around the country and that I can recommend you see or visit, or whatever to call it. There are a wide range of TV screens on this installation that are built up as a combination of Bibles, toras and Korans, which come from the same father of faith when you go backwards. He and his people have then taken 100 positive quotes, and I think we'd all call them "and 100 negative quotes," that is, 100 quotes, where you kind of say, if I follow these rules, I'm gonna walk into a society like the Danish one. And then there are 100 negative quotes, for example. from the Old Testament, from the Torah, and from the Koran. It was an eye-opener for me that there is actually a creepy parallelism in these quotations, both positive and negative, and it is no wonder, for those who want to have a belief in something metaphysical to live a better life are also looking for rules of living that are positive, and apparently in the course of the development of these religions there has also been a need for the very, very negative eye for eye and tooth for tooth, and what do I know, the suppression of women on whom the Koran unfortunately does not have a patent. I am in favour of freedom of religion, but I consistently say no to religious hatred, abuse and persecution because of people's faith or lack of faith, and I say no to religious courts. If it can clarify something for anyone, that's how I and my party Enhedslisten stand. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that the fight for democracy and freedom has often been fought against religions in all its forms and not just one religion. At the moment we are discussing one religion, but I would like to recommend that we also deal a little bit with what we are doing in, for example. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, namely that there are religions in the world, including Christianity, which is being violently suppressed. I usually use our example, where we have freedom of religion, to say that you could learn something from that when I'm in Africa or Asia or other places where you suppress, among other things. Christian religion. It is not for me, as I heard from one of the other rapporteurs, generosity or indulgence, that we have the attitude towards religions that they should have the right to be here as long as they do not harm others. This is a fundamental part of the view of democracy that I think should apply in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135056	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135059	I just get so tired when I hear this about us having our free society because we've waged a fight against churches and religions. That is simply not true. When you look around the world, you can clearly see that the countries precisely based on the Christian Protestant religion have a significantly higher degree of individual freedom. It also fits very well with the fact that it is what is being preached in the churches, namely that there is just no particular way to live one's life, which is more right than other ways, that there is therefore no religion of law, while religions have a completely different unfree society building as a result of their teachings. So I just think that the rapporteur should get a little more involved in that area and stop criticizing Christianity in this area at least in the Protestant Danish form.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135207	Thank you. I would always like to read something more, but I think that this discussion has suffered too much a touch of right-wing knowledge that would like to lecture others about what is right and wrong in this debate. I would then like to have a more equal and democratic way of debating, and I would like to recommend that you participate in this, instead of constantly teaching about who is the most scribe in this context. I have worked with Jesuits in Latin America in very oppressive societies, where the top of the church is part of the Catholic Church, if anyone doesn't know it sat on the lap of the dictator but where the ordinary members fought for rights to e.g. to have a union, which I supported them in. It was extremely talented and good people to work with. They were consistently humanistic people, but the top of their church was on the totally wrong side of democracy. I think you might as well turn to that. And if Mrs Marie Krarup would go back in history, I think we can find situations where you burned witches and did other things in Denmark, which is not a very nice thought if you are a believer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135324	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135325	There were very many priests who fought against the burning of witches, which in fact was something that the king, especially Christian IV, was very much in favour of. So there was also a different story from the rapporteur's. But I just think that one should relate to history as it is, rather than to beliefs that may be within communism, which have established that everything that has to do with religion is one great thing and that it is evil. There is a huge difference between religions. One has to learn what they actually have from the teachings of different things. And if you look at the Protestant church that we have in Denmark, it is very difficult to put a finger on something, while, if you look at most Islamic religions, it looks quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135411	I agree that there is a very large difference between religions. There is a difference between one person from India who turns the other cheek to, and a dogmatic, black priest in West Jutland who says: eye for eye and tooth for tooth. That's what the Old Testament says. There is also a great difference in religions. I would say that when you generalise, as you do in this proposal, you have to remember that a total of 448 religions in Denmark have been recognised. has the privilege and of which are the 36 Muslim religions, all of which are independent Muslim religions with very different starting points and very different interpretations of the Koran. I am happy to listen to them, just as I listen to Mrs Krarup's teachings, because it often happens when priests speak. That is why I want to say that I am trying to take a critical view of all the positions taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135517	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135518	Thank you for the floor. It is easy to look out into the world and find places where the problems are bigger and worse than what we experience at home. We can also look back in history and see that people have lived less freely than we do today. So far so good. When we deal with this today, it is of course because, with political support here in the Danish Parliament, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, and praise for it has maintained the recognition of a number of Islamic religions which are openly and also, according to the foremost Danish researcher, engaged in their association life in a way that should be contrary to what lies in recognition. What is the rapporteur's view of this, in concrete terms, rather than in historical terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135616	That is one of the reasons why, in my questions, I tried to refer to the law of religion, which was amended in 2017, and here I was critical of some points. While New Citizens have been sitting in the Folketing, we have actually seen that the Minister has tampered with some of the faith communities. That's the method. In other words, you can go into each religion and say: How do they practice this religion? And then you can take the law and then look at the two things, or you can take other laws in the community, you have the right to do so too, because they must also follow the other laws and then you can ask: Are they worthy to be on the list "yes or no?" In other words, the Minister and, in this case, the Folketing can also decide that it and that religion are not worthy of it. That is why I mention that there are 448 religions at the moment. We have the right to do so, and new citizens also have the right to ask for a statement on it once again. Because I have previously been to the Minister and discussed it, and Mrs Pernille Vermund was here and could have raised this question. That is the right we have and the opportunity we have to work with it instead of generalising and saying that all religions that have the Koran as their starting point will be on the list. Because it is irresponsible in terms of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135739	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135741	First of all, at our first meeting with the church minister, I raised this issue, and I also made it clear that for New Citizens it is absolutely insane that we are granting special privileges to the Islamic religions. Having said that, we are here with a situation in which we recognise religions on the basis of politically agreed criteria, and one of the politically agreed criteria is that we should not call for anything contrary to Danish law. It is a politically agreed criterion. We can change those criteria, and if we get the certainty that we have now been given and that is something we should be able to say to ourselves that there are people threatened with death, that there are religions that are so contrary to any democratically free mindset, then we should respond to it. And if the Minister says that at this stage we do not have the legal basis to intervene, is it not right that we in the Danish Parliament say that we must then adapt the legislation so that this cannot continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135850	We have not only one law, but a series of laws that make it illegal to kill people and to threaten death. They also apply to Muslim religions, which is why there is no problem. I say that even though I voted against the law in 2017. Yes, there is a problem in society, but there is no problem in the legislation, as Mrs Pernille Vermund suggests here. In my opinion, the law is strong enough. The other laws are also strong enough, and that is why many are convicted, both for killing people and for threatening people. We also have a law against hate crimes and a law against persecution that can be used in these contexts. There is the most important thing, after all, to go in and support the people who have been threatened and give them the right to live a safe life in our society. You can even get a restraining order if you continue to persecute people. There are also a few Danish religions that are doing very active, and it has been exposed quite violently in the Danish media. There are some rather unpleasant stories about young people who have been destroyed in their lives by being persecuted and disfellowshipped because they would not be in a certain religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228135958	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140001	When I take the floor, it is absolutely not to lecture the rapporteur that it is actually more to make a comment. I think it is unacceptable to involve Members of Parliament in an attack by the platform, as was done to Mrs Krarup. I think that is unacceptable. We all have professions and things in our luggage that we step in with here. But if people do not bring it into a debate themselves, I think it is unacceptable that people stand from the platform and bring people's private professions into it. What's next? Is it also people's sexuality and everything else that can be brought in here? I think it is unheard of to bring people's profession and other things up from the platform when the questioner himself has not brought it up. It was just a comment from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140046	Thank you for your comment. I have often discussed with Mrs Krarup, and in those debates we have not been so sensitive that we have had to have taste judges from the outside to comment on how we discussed. I hope we can continue to do so, because I like this kind of debate. I'm not taunting anyone, I'm demeaning no one, I'm embarrassing no one. I am trying to have a debate based on what my co-debate is calling for, and I hope that we can continue to do so, including in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140117	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we go to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, as far as I can see, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140135	Thank you for the floor. New citizens are proposing with this resolution that the government should make the necessary proposals to remove the recognition of Muslim religions. In recent times we have been repeatedly confirmed that we have a major problem with certain mosques and religions here in Denmark. It can be seen among other things. in how many mosques there are Islamic minds and that these problematic mosques and religions receive donations from foreign states • e.g. The Taibamosque on Nørrebro, which received 4.9 million. kr. And the largest mosque on Nørrebro is built for 150 million. kr. and has not allowed themselves to be recognized, as well as that the Grimhøjmosque did not want to be recognized either. There are about 170 mosques, and only a minority have chosen to be recognised. So let me make it clear straight away that they do not register as approved religions, and we believe that this is a major problem, as their ranking on the list is crucial for us, so that transparency can be achieved with their very cash flows and with what is being done in mosques. So we are, in fact, very much in favour of the adoption of recognition. That is why we do not believe that this is the right way forward, as proposed by the new citizens. We recognise that there are challenges, but we do not believe that this is the way forward. In fact, we believe that in this way they are pushed more into the dark and have less insight into what is really going on. Because they are going to operate anyway, in fact, by all the means they get from outside. We therefore believe that we must ensure that they are recognised and look at what we can do legally. And that is among other things. Therefore, our rapporteur has recently put a section 20 question to the Minister for Justice about the legal basis for closing problematic mosques which cooperate with, for example. the Iranian priesthood and Saudi Arabia, and whether the Minister will investigate whether religions here can be settled if they operate in violation of our society and our Danish values. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140358	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140402	Thank you for the floor. I think it is a little inverse logic to say that we must support Islamic religions with special privileges in order to reveal that they are contrary to the way we live together in Denmark, our freedom, our democracy, so that it should be necessary in principle to provide state support for Islamic religions in order to reveal that Islam is problematic and Islam is Islam. The rapporteur sits in a party which, during the last period of government, helped to introduce a number of laws which tried de facto to mitigate some of the damage caused to our society by Islam. So with one hand you want to try to weaken the influence of Islam, and with the other hand you give special privileges to the spread of Islam from the mosques. That just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140508	Now I am not sure whether it is a question or whether it is a statement by the rapporteur. But I also heard the rapporteur say before that it is not all Islam and all Muslims in Denmark that are involved. If we get recognized religions that means that they must act according to Danish rules and operate in accordance with Danish law and with our values... they must also be here, and then we will have a way of practicing Islam that is acceptable. When we don't recognize them, we push them into the dark. After all, they will continue to figure out and get plenty of money that flows in from other states. Pushing them out that way will make it hard to shut them down. We believe that we must follow the path of the law, get them recognised and create transparency in that way. And then we can see in terms of how they can be closed. We have just done it with Loyal to Familia in relation to section 78, where it has just been possible to go in and do it. And in relation to the mosques and religions that do not comply with our law, we will look at what legal basis there is for them to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140618	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140619	It sounds as if the Conservative People's Party believes that Islam and the Islamic impact on our society are relatively unproblematic and do not prevent us from maintaining our democracy and our freedom, in other words that there are parts of Islam or perhaps such a light of Islam that we can accept in our society and which we as a state would like to contribute to the spread of. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140651	I have just said at the outset that there are major problems with many religions, in relation to where they operate and in relation to their influence. They're not certified or anything. We must have a limit on that. We are not in favour of saying that then all Muslims or Islam will have to leave Denmark. There are also several ways of practicing Islam. There's not just one way. In fact, in relation to jihad, there are those who are also practicing the path where you interpret the Jurisprudens; I can best say it in English • i.e. where there is a legal practice. It is a minority and it is the reformist forces. And there are many Muslims who have a much more secular approach. There are problems with many other religions, ghettos and all sorts of things, and the rapporteur also knows that we in the Conservative People's Party are fighting hard to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140742	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140745	Thank you. Do Conservatives want more or less Islam in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140755-2	Well, it's a beautiful question to get here on a Friday, and we've heard that several times down here in the Chamber from New Citizens. This is not a question of more or less Islam. We want to limit that influence. We can say that we want less Islam in relation to the Islamisation that is happening, and that is also why we are trying to put in place and say that they must follow Danish law. So in this way we can say: No, we do not want an Islamisation of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140814	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140815	It was, of course, a very simple question: do you want there to be more Islam or less Islam? But then, when you recognise Muslim religions, is it the rapporteur's view that it requires that you get more Islam or you get less Islam? Or does it not matter whether you recognise it or not, so that it does not really matter whether they are recognised? Or do you think that it has a positive development in relation to the fact that there will be more Islam if you recognise a religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140843	Our approach to their recognition is to have a controlled Islam and an Islam that adheres to our principles. We will also take the legal path so that we can dismantle religions that are against our values, and that is less of an Islam that we are not in favour of and that is not favourable to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140904	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228140906	Thank you. When the Conservative People's Party was in government in the period 2016-2019, a number of tightenings were introduced in foreign policy. An entry ban was introduced for rabiate imams, explicit approval of certain criminal offences as part of religious training was criminalised, there was increased supervision of Muslim free schools, the ghetto package was adopted, and it was agreed that foreigners applying for Danish citizenship should go to a handshake ceremony, and common to all these bills was that they were made because of the problems that we see in Denmark because of Islam. However, the Conservative People's Party did not, unfortunately, recognise to a large extent a problem with the role of Islam in Danish society during the reign. Why, then, will the Conservative People's Party continue to support the recognition of Muslim religions in Denmark and thus give state recognition to the spread of Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141011	We are in favour of freedom of faith. It does not mean that it is equal, but we must also recognise that there are Muslims in Denmark who must have a place where they can go and practice their religion under orderly conditions. The rapporteur is perhaps aware of how many Muslims also come from outside and work in our Danish companies, and they will also be here and have a place where they can practice their religion according to orderly conditions. Our approach is to create transparency in that way, both with what is happening in the mosque and with their cash flows, and to remove recognition and that religion is not recognised in any way in the country, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141056	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141057	That is simply not what it is all about. After all, we have freedom of religion in Denmark, and you can think and believe what you want in private. It is quite clear that it is constitutionally guaranteed. This is about whether the state should go in and acknowledge and give special privileges to these Muslim religions, where you can see that I listed before all these problems that the Conservative People's Party has helped to tighten in relation to recognising that they are directly derived from Islam's influence in Denmark. Why, then, will the Conservative People's Party continue to give state recognition and special privileges to Islamic religions? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141143	If we do not recognise, we cannot make demands either, and that is what we see is the problem with it. Then, of course, we cannot impose state control and sanctions and disband the religions that are not wanted. We can't if we don't go in. We can't. They have to follow and comply with these requirements, and then we can make demands on how things are going to work, among other things. specific transparency on financing. Because that's crucial. Otherwise, they can't exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141209	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and then we have reached the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141220	Thank you for the floor. Among other things: After all, the church minister has already explained in a very fine way how law and duty are linked in the law on religions outside the church. That is, of course, a good statement which I fully endorse. The Islamic religions, which use the opportunity to become recognized religions, gain the right to bring foreign ministers to Denmark, they have the possibility of tax credit and they have the right to marry. But the religion also has a number of duties, and I think we should bear that in mind. Among other things, they must: subject themselves to rules that ensure a transparent economy, and then, of course, all those who practice religion in this country must exercise it within the framework of Article 67 of the Constitution. There is freedom of religion as long as there is no doctrine contrary to morality and public order. That's the rules we're gonna follow. But there is one premise in this debate that I have followed with increasing wonders, and it is a premise that the law on recognised religions somehow means that one is exempt from compliance with the ordinary law in Denmark. You don't. Whether the faith communities take advantage of the opportunity to be recognised or not, they all have to comply with the ordinary Danish legislation. Whether or not some Islamic religions are included in the law of recognized religions, they still have to comply with the legislation in force. Therefore, the implementation of this resolution will have a very, very marginal impact on all the social evils that we have made legislation about, not least in the previous parliamentary term. It would only change very, very little if we thought theoretically that this motion for a resolution was implemented. There can be no parallel legal systems; there can be only one legal system, and it is of course clear that it is the legal system that is being adopted in this Chamber, and these are the rules that we are running by, whether you are inside or out of the system of recognised religions. The rules on free schools must also be observed. That is why, in recent years, there have been a very large number of free schools which have been deprived of their state subsidies and then closed down. So the short of the long term is just that we in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of strict foreign policy. We have been supporting this for many years, and we have taken many initiatives, not least when we ourselves were in government. At that time, we were one of the driving forces in relation to the action plan against parallel societies. We do not want an Islamisation of Denmark, and by Islamisation we understand that non-Muslims must comply with Islamic rules. Of course they shouldn't. We look with great concern at political Islam. That is why, in the past, we have helped to take a large number of decisions aimed at combating political Islam here and abroad, and that is why we are going to take more decisions in the future that go in the same direction. But this proposal, if implemented, would change very, very little on these problems, and that is why it does not strike the balance between religious freedom and the absolutely necessary criticism of political Islam and Islamism, which must necessarily be. The debate seems to be based on the assumption that the rules of recognition exempt communities of faith from compliance with ordinary law. They do not; that is quite clear. So I simply do not think that it would actually have such major consequences in relation to all the legislative constraints that we have made, if the resolution were implemented, and when that is the case, the issue of freedom of religion is simply a very serious one, and that is why we cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141638	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141642	Thank you. I sat on the way and thought, "So, now they're in. And yet this popular thing came along. I understand the argument. However, I still have to say, even though I fully agree that this proposal does not solve all the problems of Islam. There is no quick fix when it comes to Islam, that it is so remarkable that on the one hand it is said that Islam is inflicting major problems on our society, which we must alleviate with a lot of legislation, and on the other hand it says that it wants to grant special privileges to Islamic religions that spread Islam. Can the rapporteur not see that, although this is not a quick fix that solves everything, there is a dilemma in recognising the problems created by Islam, but at the same time supporting what should be said about the Islamic religions that exist in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141747	No, honestly, I can't. For New Citizens have completely misunderstood the scope of the law on religions outside the popular church. After all, the Danish state does not agree with any beliefs in any religions that are recognised. We do not agree with Jewish or Hindu teachings or other teachings. This has nothing to do with going into any doctrines, and I do not think that the evils against which we have made a lot of legislation would be much lessened by the fact that the right of marriage from the Islamic religions was denied. I have to say. So just to pick up: New Citizens have misunderstood the scope of the law on religions outside the popular church.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141829	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141830	Now that we hear a mosque scientist say that by recognizing these Islamic religions, we have also recognised Sharia in Denmark and thus Sharia courts, so that the writings on which recognition has been based by the Ministry actually show quite clearly that you will have Sharia courts, if you acknowledge this here, is it not worrying for the rapporteur? Does the rapporteur not think that, regardless of whether we are making a genuine change of law here or whether we are going back to what we have recognised, we need to tighten up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141910-2	New citizens really like to quote this sobering quote, but it is a misunderstanding to think that some Islamic religions have been exempted from complying with the ordinary Danish legislation. No derogation has been granted from compliance with the general Danish legislation, so those parts of Sharia which are contrary to Danish law are still in breach of Danish law, but those parts which have nothing to do with Danish legislation, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. That is also true of other religions. However, it is not a derogation to be exempted from Danish legislation. It's a huge misunderstanding to believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141946	Thank you. Then Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens just signed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228141950	That is because I came to wonder at the general attitude of the Liberal Alliance towards Islam in Denmark. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that Islam in Denmark promotes Denmark as a society, as democracy, as the rule of law; that the fact that Islam as an ideology or a religion of law can be called what you want to be in Denmark does something good for Danish society? Or does it actually shift Danish society in a negative direction, or does it not matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142020	Political Islam leads to a wide range of problems. It is pushing, for example. freedom of expression, and great resources must be devoted to protecting people who want to use their freedom of expression. This is a major problem, and we have always supported the efforts that have been made to combat the influence of political Islam, but one just has to distinguish between political Islam and a large number of practitioners of this religion, who can easily figure out how to interpret parts of the teaching building symbolically and then interpret other parts literally. After all, it is quite common in religious practice to interpret certain parts symbolically and other parts literally. The Bible also says that women must remain silent in assemblies, and the debate here would have been considerably shorter if people were to abide by it. But it is interpreted symbolically, and it must, of course, be interpreted figuratively; it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142106	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142107	It was good that we just got the last three words; of course that is clear. But if you then recognise Islamic religions, even though we know that in Islamic environments there is social control, and that the possibility of leaving Islam is not present without massive reprisals, which can be violent and anything else, then you really do promote Islam and the agenda of Islam in Denmark, i.e. you do not take the fight against it. I guess I'm aware that the Liberal Alliance thinks it's a small fight. But isn't it a fight worth taking even though it's small?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142146	What has just been said is firstly a distortion of what I have said. Secondly, it is also a misunderstanding of what would happen if Islam were to be thrown out of this legislation. That would not change anything at all in terms of social control, radicalisation or other things. I simply believe that this debate has been called on, given that New Citizens have far misunderstood the scope of this law, which first of all provides transparent accounts and then gives certain family rights, but which certainly is not an exception not to comply with Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142223	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and then we go on to the rapporteur for the proposers. This is Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228142231	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark, you have to believe and think what you want. Muslims must, of course, do the same. The proposal is not aimed at restricting freedom of religion. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that Islam has no influence on society. And why is that so important? It is because when Islam gains influence, there will be less room for freedom, equality and the rule of the people. That is our experience, and experience must be acted upon. In recent years, a majority of politicians here in the Folketing have implemented a number of laws and regulations aimed at remedying the damage to the values of society caused by Islam: enhanced supervision of Muslim free schools, burka bans, interventions against the Imams in relation to religious training, demands for handshakes in the granting of citizenship, etc. The examples are many, and common to them is that they address a symptom, but not a cause. Now it is eagerly being debated among both Socialists and Social Democrats and bourgeois, how to prevent foreign funding by the mosques and how to counter the negative social control that prevails in the Islamic environments and is preached by the Imams. But here, too, symptoms and relief are not discussed cause. For the cause of the problems is difficult for most politicians to formulate, although what we see all points in the same direction. The arrow points to Islam, and in order to overcome the problems we need to bring that recognition to political action. A good place to start is to remove the privileges deriving from the approval procedure of the religious code. It is the right of marriage, it is the right of deduction, and then it is the relaxed conditions for preachers to obtain entry and residence in Denmark. It is these privileges that our resolution aims to remove. Firstly, imams should not be able to marry husbands with legal validity. Islamic family law is basically anti-women and out of step with modern living. A recent report documents how Muslim religions prevent women from obtaining divorce. With violence and death threats, women are forced to stay in their Muslim marriage, even though they have obtained divorce by Danish law, and that should not surprise anyone. For it is the terms of a Muslim marriage, also called nikah, that the marriage can only be dissolved if the man wants it. That is what politicians in this Parliament support when they recognise Muslim religions in Denmark. It is the responsibility of politicians that these actions take place with the recognition of the state. Muslims who want their marriage done legally must go to the municipal office and sign. So this is the only right thing to do. Secondly, we should not be able to deduct financial donations to mosques from taxes. A deduction is technically the same as other taxpayers paying your tax. It is quite unreasonable to demand that Danish citizens be involved in financing a religious and ideological institution that is directly contrary to the fundamental values of our society. The mosques are working against democracy and secular laws. The mosques incubate Islamic terrorists and, through their actions, mark religious Muslims with values that are in hostile opposition to the Western. Denmark's foremost mosque researcher stated the other day that Danish politicians, with the recognition of the Muslim religions, have recognised Sharia courts in Denmark and, as the researcher said to Berlingske, it is of course not possible in Denmark to implement undemocratic and foreign Sharia practices while being recognised with the privileges it grants. I fully agree with the researcher in that statement, and so should any Danish-minded and democratically minded politician. To support mosques financially is therefore, to say the least, inappropriate. Thirdly, a majority in this Parliament has decided to allow religious Muslims to import Islamic preachers on particularly lenient conditions. What sense is there in one hand spending billions of dollars trying to integrate and train Muslims in Denmark and then giving Islamic religions special rights to bring preachers here who work for the exact opposite? Islam as a religion, which ideology has a negative influence on our society. As a religion, Islam is oppressive. As an ideology, Islam is directly hostile. Islam does not tolerate homosexuals. Islam does not tolerate apostates. Islam does not tolerate criticism and blasphemy. Islam promotes social control. Islam suppresses women's rights and freedom. Islam is in far too many essential points in direct opposition to the values of a society of freedom, equality and democracy. Islam is in direct opposition to everything we fight for as Danish values. That is why it is when we allow Islam to have more influence in society, for there to be less room for freedom, for equality and for the rule of the people. That's our experience. In Denmark we have built a popular government, which is secular, on a Christian cultural heritage. Christianity and the rule of the people go well together. Christianity contains values that support the rule of the people and freedom. A study from the City of Copenhagen recently showed that an increasing proportion of young people with a non-Western background want religious laws to be placed above democratic and secular. We must be aware of this absolutely crucial difference between Islam and Christianity. Islam works against the people's rule and freedom. Christianity supports the rule of the people and freedom. And when that is the case, as politicians, we cannot allow Islam to influence society. On the contrary, we must do everything we can to separate Islam from society, so that Islam and the worship of this religion remain a purely private matter for Muslims in Denmark. I know that there are many people in this Chamber today who may have a rather naive belief that if we just give Islam good conditions in Denmark, ideology and religion will change enough, and then it will stop being an anti-democratic ideology. Then it stops being oppressive of women, and then it stops condemning sexual minorities. I just have to say that there is simply no justification for this. On the contrary, Islam's cultural and ideological domination of time is strengthened among Muslims in Denmark. And it is not the task of the state or Danish society to reform Islam into a humane ideology and culture. The Muslims have to do this for themselves. There are also many in this Chamber who will think that our freedom of religion offers us the same privileges as other religions. There is no obligation to equate Islam with other religions. On the contrary, we owe it to the Danes to make a difference, so that Islam is kept completely out of influence on society. Neither Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism nor Christianity work against our values and the foundations of society. To illustrate the difference, I would like to quote Rabbi Jair Melchior, who in 2016 said to Kristeligt Dagblad: "We are not allowed to make a religious divorce until the state has made the secular, so we do the religious afterwards. This is a good example of living in a society where there are important rules that must be observed and that are common to all. Religion can then be an addition. For Jews, their religion is an addition to the rule of the people. It's beautiful. For Islam, the rule of the people is a contradiction, and that makes all the difference. By the way, the freedom to worship your religion does not depend on whether you are sent around the city hall to sign when you are getting married. This is the case in many other countries with freedom of religion. Nor is the freedom to practice one's religion dependent on a tax credit for donations to one's mosque, or whether one can get a particular foreigner here to preach. Even without the privileges that the motion for a resolution lays down to remove from the Muslim religion, freedom of religion and religion are intact. It is time for the Folketing to recognise that Islam and popular rule are contradictions and that the Folketing acts accordingly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143155	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143200	Thank you. And thank you for the presentation. On several occasions in this Chamber, we MEPs have been asked by members of the New Citizens' Party whether we know Islam and the substance of Islam. That is a very obvious question, I think, and I welcome it. But then it is that I ask whether New Citizens know about the substance of Islam when they, for example, know about it. consciously calling a homosexual nurse an Islamist. In the version New Citizens have of Islam, is there room for homosexuals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143254	Thank God it is not New Citizens who are behind Islam, and we do not in any way support what Islam stands for. Nor have we in New Citizens called a homosexual nurse Islamist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143309	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143310	It is simply not true that New Citizens have not called a nurse an Islamist. It has been widely debated. But enough about it. There is a lot of talk about women's oppression, and I myself have also had a lot of criticism of the women's oppression that is taking place in some of these Muslim environments. But is it only in Muslim environments that this oppression is found? If you want to remove recognition from Islamic religions because you want to pursue equality, should you not also look at the inner missionary environments where priests do not want to marry homosexuals and where you do not want to recognise female priests?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143357	To the extent that the SF believes that New Citizens have said something that I, as President, have not said, owes the questioner and the SF to document it. We look forward to it. The type of fake news that flourishes, also among members of the SF, we do not really like very much. When it comes to other religions, we don't see and thank God for the huge problems with religions in Denmark, but we see a very, very big problem with Islam. And to the extent that there should be huge problems with other religions, we would also be happy to take them with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143437	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143438	I think that the rapporteur for the new citizens should be careful not to talk fake news. I think we should practice being a little more nuanced in our debate if we want to get results out of it. It is always good to be very, very black and white and very categorical if you want profiling; I know all about that. But if New Citizens want some results and convince this part of the Folketing that is present now, and for that matter the whole Folketing, I think they should be a little bit more nuanced. There are 66 Muslim religions in Denmark that are on the list. New Citizen suggests that everyone should be removed from the list because they are Muslims without bringing just the hint of evidence that all 66 are it. That kind of demonization is called some other ugly things. We have just had a debate on anti-Semitism in society and still have it away; an important debate, moreover, in my opinion, and a necessary debate, because we must not generalise a religion. One must go in and take out religions and say that they do not follow our law, and one must be able to do so if one wants to change. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143558	The rapporteur fully agrees that this is specifically about problems with one type of religion, based on one religious and political ideology which is incompatible with our values of society, with democracy, with gender equality and with the freedom that Danes must have when Danes live in Denmark. So when we say that we have problems with Islam, and when we recognise it widely in the Folketing by introducing lots of legislation to prevent the spread of Islam, what we say in New Citizens is that it does not at the same time make sense to support the spread of Islam from the Danish mosques. It is mosques that are so extreme that Danish Muslims tell me that they could never dream of going to a Danish mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143653	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143654	The latter is precisely a good example of the existence of Muslims and Muslim religions that are different from others, and therefore it is good to be nuanced rather than unmanageable. I would say that the speech alone suggests that I should not feel welcome in Danish society, because I do not feel that I am out of a Christian tradition. I don't feel like it's a Christian community I'm out of. I am out of a democratic society and it is a democratic cultural heritage in which I was brought up. I feel as much as Danes as New Citizens do, and I feel that I have the same right both to express myself and to interfere in the debate, whatever religion I may be associated with, or if, as is the case, I am not associated with any religion. That is why I would like to appeal once again to a tiny amount of nuances and evidence that it is, as the New Citizen claims, in all of the 66 religions which are today recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143750	When we talk about documentation, I really think that the latest report by VIVE, which shows that there are women who are threatened with violence and death in Muslim religions, is good evidence. You could start with that in the Ministry. Another evidence is the mosque researcher who says that Sharia and Sharia courts have been recognised in Denmark de facto. It's also documentation. If that is not enough documentation, can you look into the world and ask yourself: does Islam give more freedom and more democracy or less freedom and less democracy? That's less. As far as our history is concerned, it may be that you do not feel Christian or Christian, but that does not change the fact that Danish society has a Christian cultural heritage on which society is founded. Well, you can't take the story out and say, we just change it, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143840	Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143842	Thank you. Actually, it's not a question I have, but now I'm trying to make it a question. Mrs Marie Krarup and I spent some time here at the end of the day talking about how we could benefit from the fact that we were together investigating some things, and I mentioned earlier how to actually recognise a religion in Denmark. I also understood New Citizens would like to be a part of that. It could also be added here that some of the university specialists in this field might be able to come and inform us about what is happening in Islam in these years and what is up and down in Sharia etc. I very much hope that New Citizens will also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228143928	We shall be very much in favour of this. In fact, I think that today's debate bears witness to • and I do not think there are any people who have evil intentions • that we have different insights into the challenges of the Islamic environments and different insights into what Islam does to a society. The better we are informed, the better we can be able to face the challenges that are, and since I can see that unfortunately there is no support for this proposal, any step towards overcoming these problems will be welcome for the new citizens. So we are very happy to accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144009	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144010	My background to being involved in this in the way I have just described is that I have learned many times that shared knowledge also makes it easier to talk about the problems we have in society, so it is also for that perspective to come up with. It is not because I have become a particular supporter of New Citizens, but because I want to bring New Citizens with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144035	Well, thank you. I have to admit, I'm gonna be really touched. I don't know if you can do it on the platform. Again: I must say, and it is also to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that when we may be tough in this area, it's because we know how hard it's gotten through with these messages. And if this can give rise to people suggesting that we should become smarter together, then I believe that with a common knowledge we are stronger in looking after what we want to take care of together: our freedom, our democracy and our Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144110	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144113	I think it was sir. Christian Juhl. But that points very well to Mrs Pernille Vermund's ideas on causality, and one has to be very careful about that, that is, because one says so, the other has said so too. That's kind of what's at the heart of this. Mrs Pernille Vermund says that Christianity in itself supports democracy and equality. I have to say that it may well be that in recent hours and in the time I have been in the Chamber, both Mrs Krarup and New Citizens have been taught that we do not know anything about Islam, but unfortunately there is much to suggest that the debaters from New Citizens do not know anything about Christianity. Maybe it's even more embarrassing. There is nothing in itself in Christianity that supports equality. There is nothing in itself in Christianity that supports democracy. Luther wasn't a Democrat. I hope that Mrs Pernille Vermund is aware of that. After all, it is a question of how social development goes hand in hand with things. But what I really want to ask is whether Mrs Pernille Vermund believes that the positive development of what Mrs Pernille Vermund would like to see, namely equality, democratisation and so on, is supported. For example, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom and in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom and in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom and in the United Kingdom. religious beliefs, by letting them live in secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144239	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144239-2	The most free and most democratic societies in the world are based on Christian values and on our interpretation of Christianity. So it is a fact that Christianity is far better at making room for freedom and democracy than, for example, Islam. When it comes to whether Islam should live in secret questions, my answer is: Yes, thank you, Islamic preachers may, for my sake, be smoked out. People must believe and think what they want, but I will by no means accept a premise which states that we must financially or with special privileges support Islamic religions that spread Islam in its most harsh form in Denmark, just to have control of them. That is simply a reverse logic for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144334	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144335	But it is simply not true that Christianity in itself supports democracy, freedom and equality. There are plenty of examples in Christianity to the contrary. Now the Inner Mission has been mentioned, and the Inner Mission rests on Pietism, and the whole thinking of the Inner Mission is, of course, that the Church is not a bourgeois arrangement, but a church of confession, where the writings of the Bible are to be observed, and in the writings of the Bible there is, excuse me, not much about equality, as Mr. Henrik Dahl also mentioned. So I find it hard to see: what exactly does Mrs Pernille Vermund think is in the Christian faith and in the Old Testament, for example, which in itself supports the objectives she has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144432	The Christian faith says: Give to God the things that are God's, and give to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. It is quite explicit, and I think one owes it to remember that Christianity is both the Old Testament and the New Testament. Christianity makes room for freedom and democracy more evident than Islam, for example, because the Christian Scriptures clearly recognise that we should not dictate everything by religious laws, and that we should respect that Caesar's is Caesar's and that God's is God's. I think that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144515	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144528	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Socialist Group, and that is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144547	Thank you. The bill here is about implementing a change to an EU directive in Danish law. I understand, Mr President, that the heated debate on the previous legislative proposal is continuing in the ranks, but it is also okay. I can go on now, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144618	Okay, let's get back to work. I would ask you to remain calm and respect for the speaker on the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228144624	Behind this rather long wording about an AVMS directive that is amended and to be implemented in Danish law, there is actually a rather important discussion about what our children and young people in particular use of the many new opportunities within the media image, and very much about what they are exposed to and what responsibility they have when spreading material on video-sharing services and other things. The time when all children sat together in front of the TV screen and watched TV for you is long gone. They are, although I actually thought it was very good. There are lots of different cartoons on the iPad from all sorts of different sources, you stream TV on the web, subscribe to video channels on YouTube, get news from Facebook, typically those that are a little older than the very youngest and with few clicks you have access to all kinds of content from a wide range of platforms. Politically and in the field of media policy, I believe that we have a special responsibility to protect our children and young people, and it is no longer enough to regulate Danish content on Danish platforms. For example: YouTube, who is probably the most widely used of these services, from Ireland and not from Denmark, but they will still be covered by these regulations, because it is an EU country and the rules therefore also apply to them, and the rules will also have consequences for Danish users, i.e. because we are together in the EU. This is an example of a place where it makes much sense to work together in the European Union, and we welcome the revised and updated directive on audiovisual media services. And that is what the bill does: implement parts of the revised directive. This is a minimum regulation. Denmark has the opportunity to put our own regulations upstairs and in different ways actively relate to things, and so do we. Some special Danish solutions are proposed, and the Minister of Culture is authorised to make some special Danish solutions. To mention some examples, it will be a duty to make it clearer what is advertising, what is marketing and what is other types of content. There will be a responsibility to protect minors. There will be a responsibility for not just spreading things that incite violence, terrorism and other things on your video-sharing service and have no responsibility for it. It is also proposed that a requirement should be made for streaming services and others who broadcast videos, for age assessment of programme content; we are making a model that is a bit like the one known from cinemas today. The Media Council will set out some guidelines, and these players will then have to comply with them. In this way parents are better advised when choosing and opting out content for their children, and these things together help to protect children better from harmful content. There is also an obligation to make the content more accessible to people with disabilities on an ongoing basis. The amendments to the directive also include more flexible rules on allowed advertising time and product placement on television and on demand services. And that was something which, if it were to be carried out as it stood, would allow TV 2 to advertise more than the current 12 minutes per hour and also to interrupt broadcasts in order to bring advertisements. It is important for me to say that we are not implementing this in Danish law. The legal situation now in which TV 2 is charged with the maximum of 12 minutes per hour, and the fact that the programmes are not interrupted, stands. That is, of course, one of the things we can do, that is to say, put it upstairs and decide that it should still be like this in Denmark, even if the pure implementation of the directive would give TV 2 some other options. TV 2 is doing quite well today without advertising interruptions, and I think that the Danes will generally be happy if we do not let them interrupt programmes and let them have even more advertising in prime time than there are already. The conclusion is therefore better protection for children and young people in particular when they go online and receive content there. We are pleased about this and we look forward to being able to implement the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145058	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Rohde, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145102	Thank you. It is so good that we have the Socialist rapporteur to come up first, so that the rest of us do not have to put forward what the draft law is about afterwards. Moreover, I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur. What I would like to ask is whether we should consider sending the Minister to Brussels and trying to have a new revision of this directive. In fact, we tried to create in the European Parliament a right to demand in the jurisdiction of the recipient country how the advertising rules are administered for those who then send from another jurisdiction. We can talk interruptions and game ads, Danske Spils excellent suggestions for one thing and the other in Denmark, just as crazy we will, when by far most of the flow-TV we provide, actually come from channels that do not have their jurisdiction in Denmark. That is why TV 2 has a little unequal competition, because some and others must not, because that depends on where the radio station is. What is the Social Democrat take on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145219	I know it is not something that the government has thus taken a position on, but I think it is certainly a very relevant discussion. And it is true that there will be a mismatch and a lack of opportunity to determine exactly how things should be in Denmark if you send from elsewhere. This also applies to restrictions which we would have liked to have introduced; the gambling market was mentioned here as an example. So I think it is absolutely a relevant discussion, but I cannot stand on behalf of the government and say that we will do so tomorrow, but I think that is something we can take up together as rapporteurs with the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145258	Sir. Jens Rohde. Apostasy? Yeah. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur, and we go on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145314	Thank you. The draft law is the implementation of an EU directive on audiovisual media services. The term covers those media services whose main purpose is to provide and entertain and inform users through image and sound. It can be traditional TV channels, it can be streaming services and online social media platforms such as: YouTube, mentioned before, and Facebook. The social media platforms in particular are gaining ground in these years with our children and young people, and this is increasingly the way in which the young people in particular keep up to date, and they are also using it primarily as a means of communication. That is why we must also ensure that our laws protect them in the same way as the laws today apply to the more traditional media platforms. Therefore, the main purpose of the directive is to ensure that the current rules and laws will continue to apply to the new platforms. In implementing this directive, we will ensure that common rules across Europe for age limits and for how we protect our children and young people from dangerous, illegal and harmful content. These may be videos calling for hateful comments, violence or terror. Television channels and streaming services and platforms established in Denmark must in future be ensured with clear labels on what content is approved for which groups, and in this way it can help to ensure that children are not exposed to violent content. After all, the content must be assessed in the same way as we do today, with age levels for cinema films. The platforms, which are with this user-generated content, will in future be required to ensure actions that prevent videos with messages that encourage violence and terror or contain hateful comments. If this is contrary to the rules, users can report the content, and therefore the Left can vote in favour of the bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145522	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145524	Quite frankly, this is an extremely difficult subject. I would like to ask the Left whether there has been any thought that, if we look at these digital platforms in general, we should try to have a joint discussion here in the Folketing and with the government, in relation to whether we could introduce a media liability law for these digital platforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145554	Thank you to the questioner. I think that is interesting and I would even ask the questioner to clarify a little in relation to what should lie in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145605	Sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145607	If we are to start speaking platform neutrality, including in relation to subsidies and such things in the future, then we must set up a set of rules, and within that we must have a media liability law. However, we need to get a better grip on what is happening on the digital platforms. And I haven't baked it yet. That is why I am asking whether we should not have these discussions, because it is but I do not know whether the Left has an ideological position in relation to it. I just ask you so curiously whether you are ready to enter into discussions of this nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145655	I am quite sure that the Left would like to take part in those discussions. But that also requires that we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left be allowed to discuss it before we can meet and have joint discussions. I think that's very nice, and I'd like to take that back to the group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145710	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145719	Thank you very much. Now the first two rapporteurs have explained the content of the draft law, so there is no need to go into it any more. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we welcome the fact that it is now adopted by law that a more accessible approach should be adopted, and we also welcome the fact that advertising blocks are maintained in their current form. I don't think there's a lot of people who want more ads. The only thing that advertising time can be used for is to lubricate lunches so that you do not miss anything in the film that is currently being shown. It is clear from the draft law that a new assessment of the age limit should be made on e.g.: movies. It actually makes sense. Personally, I think that the model that is now is a little conservative. It must then be up to the committee to assess how they will do it. Then there is one of the consultation answers which says that where there is no age limit, there is no reason to feel it, and I think that is actually a good point. There's no need to spend time on it when you don't have to feel it anyway. Compared to what Mr. Jens Rohde just asked the rapporteur of the Left, I think there is a point there. We find it very difficult to control what is happening on the digital platforms, and I think we should actually accept that and as Parliament goes a little more into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145843	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228145852	As I have already mentioned, the Radical Left supports this bill. That would be strange, too. I myself have been in trialogue negotiations on the directive and the revision of the directive as a member of the Legal Committee of the European Parliament. And then I must make a confession: the directive that has been adopted in the European Union is flawed. Because when we talk about protection for example... Our children and young people against various content, we need to have a much stronger common set of rules in the European Union for how we do it. Some people will refuse to say this: should it now be decided in Brussels? No, it is not necessarily necessary, but then we must strengthen the directive. I am now looking at the Minister for Culture, who is not responsible for the directive. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Culture on his debut on the parliamentary platform today. It is only today, in fact, that the Minister for Culture has made his debut on the Parliament's platform, so congratulations on that. Then I shall come back to the thread: the directive. It is Section 9 of the directive that is a challenge for us, because if we do not have the opportunity to set stricter rules at European level and we do not want to do so in Brussels, we must consider whether we cannot strengthen Section 9 so that we can put more stringent rules at home in Denmark on how to protect our children. It is, of course, a challenge in a number of areas, but in my view it is a problem that we are sticking people in the eye every time we regulate the media. Whether advertising rules on TV 2 or other advertising rules etc., we do so with the illusion that we protect people from various content and protect people from interruptions in the middle of the broadcast. We don't, because that's not the way anyone watches TV anymore. Well, there's no one except maybe sir. Søren Søndergaard, I don't know that there is such a bite to see DR or to watch TV 2. We see many different channels, most Danes do at least, and there they get a lot of gaming advertisements, and they get interruptions a lot. Because the media market has developed in this way, it also creates new challenges. It creates some competitive challenges for those who send under Danish jurisdiction... that's what I asked Mr. Jesper Petersen discusses and this creates some protection challenges for us when we want to protect consumers from interruptions or advertisements or protect young people from a certain content with various warnings. It is a reality that I think we have to deal with, and that is why I looked over at the Minister before. I think we should have a joint discussion on whether we could send the Minister to Brussels to discuss seriously whether we do not need to update the directive so that it fits the reality we are living in today. But with these words, we give full support to the bill from the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150230	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150243	With the bill, we are implementing the audiovisual media services directive, and the SF supports the bill because we believe it improves the state of affairs, among other things. to ensure a greater level of protection for children and young people on the media. Overall, this means that a minimum regulation of TV on demand media services is made when it comes to advertising, without relaxing the good rules already in Denmark. These video-sharing services have a duty to combat and counter the sharing of harmful and illegal content. Greater demands are being made on the marking of suitability for minors, which we also think is good, and then demands for more programme content and more accessibility for people with disabilities. We think it is good that this directive is being implemented and implemented, knowing that more could be done. So SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150349	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150401	The Enhedslisten is, from the outset, very positive about the proposal. It is necessary to introduce more regulation and supervision of video-sharing platforms, as for me too, I have to say to Mr. Jens Rohde is a growing proportion of media usage. This is necessary, among other things. to stop harmful content for children and content that encourages hatred, violence and other criminal offences. Unfortunately, however, this is not so simple because, as the Institute for Human Rights and the IT-Politic Association points out in their hearing response, the model implies that there is some delegation to the platforms of what may be considered harmful content. And it can, they write and I quote... lead to over-regulation of content, since the platforms may choose, on the basis of a precautionary principle, to limit content to a greater extent than is necessary. They also write that the result of this could be a restriction on citizens' freedom of expression and information. In our view, this problem is absolutely central because it affects some of the most important things we have in a democracy, namely freedom of expression. And I must admit that I am not extremely enthusiastic or comforted when the Ministry of Culture writes in its review of the hearings that the Ministry assumes that a balance has been struck in the directive that takes account of freedom of expression and freedom of information. It is, of course, more than just requiring it, because Article 77 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is entitled to publish his thoughts in print, in speech and in writing, but under the responsibility of the courts, should not be called into question, because censorship and other preventive measures cannot ever be introduced again. And the question is whether you are creating a system that somehow bypasses the courts. That is why, I think, we need a discussion on more than the legislative proposal requires. We simply need clarification that there are no contradictions in relation to the Danish constitution. Moreover, this is something we have discussed in a number of other contexts within the European Committee when proposals from the European Union come forward for the regulation of social platforms. That is why we will follow the process closely. Finally, I would like to make three brief comments. Firstly, the bill will establish a system of age marking of programme content in order to ensure that minors are not exposed to harmful content. We are very sympathetic to this, but we think it is important that the age assessment should be based on a Danish children's vision and Danish children's culture and not an established EU standard. Secondly, the programme content of both television and on demand audiovisual media services must be more accessible to people with disabilities. We fully support this in the Enhedslisten. Therefore, it is interesting to look at the possibility of obliging all providers to create a more accessible range of programmes. Thirdly, with this amendment, it is to be expected that the Radio and Television Board and Media Council for Children and Young People will be entrusted with more tasks than today. One cannot really imagine that this control will not mean much more tasks, which is why it is important that the resources that are allocated extra should actually be included in order to fulfil the tasks that are being added, in terms of ensuring the supervision of accessibility, child protection, classification area, etc. As I have said, the Enhedslisten is in favour of the basic intention of the proposal, but following on from what I have said, we have a number of questions and a number of points that need to be clarified, which we want to address in committee, and we look forward to doing so. Finally, I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they also support the draft law, but also look forward to the committee reading, not least in relation to the answers to some of the questions raised by the Institute for Human Rights in their hearing response. In addition, the alternative is looking forward to coming all the way around the issue in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150842	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150846	That's absolutely right, sir. Søren Søndergaard says that we have had different discussions in connection with the IT-Politics Association. In any case, I have had a great deal of discussion on, among others, the subject of the report. The copyright directive, which was then turned into a question of freedom of expression, what I think is completely misguided. But it was a wagon that the Danish left in the European Parliament also bought. Here I can just say that I do not know why the Ministry of Culture requires it. So it must be some way one has now chosen to formulate oneself in order to wear belts and belts. However, as far as I remember, the European left was also involved in the revision of the directive here, and with the focus there on precisely these digital platforms and on freedom of expression in this context, I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard can feel confident that the directive also supports freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150943	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228150944	That is why we have the committee procedure. As far as the European Left is concerned, I would just like to say that I believe that the part of what is in Germany has supported German legislation. However, I am very concerned about German legislation, because there has been a model in which very, very large fines have been imposed, if, as it were, you bring something wrong. And the risk is that, for fear of bringing something wrong, you bring something that you are in doubt about. And in a broader sense, it raises the problem of section 77 of the Constitution, because it is the responsibility of the courts, that is to say, that everyone has the right to express himself. And I am fully aware of all the problems that this poses when it comes to saying that it is the individual who has to answer and so on. But there is one problem that we have to go into and where we want to be completely safe, and we will use the committee procedure for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151050	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151051	Now I know that Mr. Søren Søndergaard was not part of the Greens, so it was the GUE. I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard knows Mr. Jan Albrecht. After all, he is Minister for Energy and Supply in Schleswig-Holstein today. But if anyone knows anything about this area and really was a front-runner to preserve freedom of expression in the digital world in the European Parliament, then it is Mr. Jan Albrecht of the Greens. And I don't think that Mr. Jan Albrecht in any way supported the German scheme, but he has been involved in the work on this. So at least parts of both the German and the European left have been involved in the drafting of that set of rules here, and I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard can feel safe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151136	Thank you. Then we need an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151137	Well, I'm not going to comment on that at all, because I don't know anything about that, that is, who supported what. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, there's a problem, and I think so too, sir. Jens Rohde will recognise, in other words, the more we let service providers decide what the services can be used for. And you could say that the more it is just a purely technical supply, the more problem it is. That is why we in the Committee on European Affairs have had situations in which we have not been able to give a mandate because it could come into conflict with Article 77 of the Constitution. Whether it does this or not, I don't know what to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151214	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151226	This bill very well addresses the important issues which are precisely about the protection of minors in relation to harmful and illegal audiovisual content on video-sharing platform services, and other good rapporteurs have already mentioned what this really means. I can only say that this is a very fine legislative proposal, which is up-to-date and which, above all, benefits our children and young people. For the Conservative People's Party, it is important that our children can grow up in a safe everyday life and that we as parents can be sure that they are protected as much as possible and that we precisely protect minors from harmful content and protect all citizens from content that encourages violence or hatred or the spread of which constitutes a criminal offence. Indeed, we have a special responsibility to protect children and young people, and these rules have a consequence, and the directive is a very good example of when EU legislation makes very good sense. Against this background, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151328	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151335	This is kind of a bag of mixed candy. There are good things and there are bad things in it. We must see, when we have the committee procedure, whether we should seek to share some of the elements in it. So we're a little divisive about it. We think there are good things and there are bad things in it. So we have not yet decided a hundred per cent whether we are voting for or against the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151402	Thank you for that, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151409	Thank you for the floor. Like the Enhedslisten, we also take note of the fact that the proposal seriously interferes with freedom of expression. In connection with previous attempts to censorship modern media, we are aware that it is always going to be far more far-reaching than the intention originally is, so you also end up censoring things that it is very difficult from such a Danish understanding of things to understand why needs to be censored. So in view of the fact that the proposal intervenes so strongly with something similar to censorship, we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151454	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and that is why it is now the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151503	Thank you very much. And thank you to all the rapporteurs for the comments. The bill implements parts of this newly revised and updated directive, which we have already mentioned. And this is purely technical implementation of the directive, so that, for example, in relation to the extension of the scope of the directive, in addition to television and streaming services, it also includes the regulation of these video-sharing platforms. It is proposed that Danish radio and television legislation should include: require video-sharing platforms to establish mechanisms for reporting harmful and illegal content offered on the platforms and ensure age control. It is perhaps a little important to say that at this stage the Ministry of Culture has not been able to identify any video-sharing platforms that will be covered by this new regulation, but that can change quickly as new services arrive. However, there are some other points in the draft law where the text of the directive has not only been transposed into Danish law and where we also propose some specific Danish solutions. I would like to highlight the two areas, and I will end up trying to answer Søren Søndergaard on some of the questions he raised. Firstly, the draft law introduces, among other things: requirements for the streaming services of Danish television channels established in Denmark that they have to assess age, and this applies to the services of TV 2 PLAY and DRTV. Many services do so in part in advance. Here a scheme is proposed to assess the programme content according to the age levels currently used in Denmark for age assessment in relation to cinema films, and where the assessment should be based on guidance from the Media Council for Children and Young People under the Ministry of Culture. Indeed, child protection is a cross-border problem and many streaming services and video-sharing platforms come from abroad, which is why it is good that we are taking the lead here in showing the other EU countries that we are quickly following up on the directive in order to bring up the protection of children and young people in the legislation. The second point I would like to highlight is the proposal which maintains the stricter Danish advertising rules. As the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, the government does not want to introduce the more liberal minimum rules of the directive on allowed advertising time on television into Danish legislation. Instead, we are proposing to maintain the current advertising ceiling for television at 12 minutes per hour. hour. The government's argument for making this bill this way is that it's about giving our kids a safe childhood in front of the screen. I would like to point out that we see the bill as a step in the right direction towards increasing the protection of children and young people against harmful content, but we are by no means ashore with this bill. I think it has been very good to hear the comments of the rapporteur of the Radicals on how we can continue to seek influence in the European Union in order to do this better. I also think that this is an area which I hope will fill a great deal in the forthcoming media debates on how we can act in this area. With these comments, I should just like to say that I look forward to being available and, of course, I do so for the committee procedure. But I will also try briefly to answer Søren Søndergaard's question about this with what it means that it is assumed that there has been a balance in terms of freedom of expression. As I have read it and as I understand it and as the Ministry has written it and passed it on to me, it is about the fact that we have not made an independent assessment. Well, we have not been around any legal entity in Denmark in this way, but we in the Ministry of Culture have leaned on the fact that it has been through a thorough examination in the EU system. So it was supposed to be an attempt at an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151903	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228151906	Thank you. I just have to say that we in the Committee on European Affairs have dealt with a proposal in which the Danish Ministry of Justice could not accede to the proposal, which was dealt with in the European Union, on the basis of an assessment that it came into conflict with Article 77 of the Constitution. This is precisely the question that we cannot introduce pre-censorship. Now, of course, we do not have to take the committee procedure here. We can come back to it, and we can also get some technical help, because it is a bit complicated matter, and I am not sure that we have necessarily understood the whole thing. However, would the Minister not acknowledge on a fundamental level that there can be a problem if you contract something to private operators to decide whether something is within or outside the legal framework? In other words, the fact that the risk of over-implementation is present, at least if you have penalties and the fact that it is not the courts, but it is private individuals who have to decide it, raises at least a problem that we must have looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152015	I would like to acknowledge that. When I tried to answer such a straight introductory question, it was because I heard that it was debating what it meant that the ministry had written pre-emptively, and I was trying to clarify that. I would like to acknowledge that there may be this risk if that is what we did. I would like to help to see whether there is a risk that this might happen. With my view of the bill as it now stands, I cannot see at this stage how, by putting it in the Media Council for Children and Young People under the Ministry of Culture, they will be the ones to look at which video-sharing platforms are even covered by it here, and they will also be the ones to supervise it, just as they oversee all other media activities that are subject to Danish regulation within our jurisdiction. In my world, this media council should be the guarantor of an authority watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152115	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152118	For that there is, sir. Søren Søndergaard, of course to say that Denmark has acceded to the directive and also to the revision of the directive but peace be with it. It is actually quite true that we have a fundamental problem with the fact that in a large number of cases censorship has already been outsourced to capitalism, to private companies. We know that with Facebook, and that's a huge problem. That is why I want media liability laws and all those things on the agenda. But that is not what I wanted to ask, because it was about TV 2 and the 12 minutes, and we actually agree that the 12 minutes are fine. But there is the question of how to count on the 12 minutes, i.e. whether it is from a whole hour to the next hour or how to explain it from the whole time to the whole time, or whether you can calculate it from the hour. 8:15 p.m. 9:15. It actually makes a pretty big difference, they say at least on TV 2, and I do not know whether the Minister will be willing to try to look at it or at least tell us what the effect will be, because I cannot see that through either. But TV 2 certainly has a desire to hold on to the 12 minutes with greater flexibility. Could it be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152242	Thank you. Summer time and winter time. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152244	I was just looking for whether it should be described in that background material, because unfortunately I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis. However, I would like to respond to this as part of the committee's proceedings and I would like to take a look at it. After all, this is not about making Danish-produced media content worse compared to other content from other cultural media realities. On the contrary, for the government, it is about making Danish media reality more equal with this than it is today, so that our children both get quality content, but actually also get a good experience with Danish media content. So I am very open to looking at whether we can put TV 2 a little better, yet still with the clause that we should not interrupt programmes or extend the time of advertising.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152337	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152338	Yes, I fully agree with that, both with the 12 minutes and no interruptions. But then I would like to ask the Minister to come with us to the Ministry of Culture, that we should just get an insight into whether, if you turn it around and make a greater flexibility, it would be an opening to the fact that in reality it would only give more flexibility to TV 2, or whether it would be some way of opening such a roof-top table. We would like to have this checked during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152411	I'd love to, too. Let us do this and have a good dialogue on it, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152417	There are no more brief comments. So we thank the Minister for Culture. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200228152429	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 10 March 2020 at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
