ParlaMint-DK_20201211100018	Order! Good morning. The Committee on Health and the Elderly has presented: Report on the lack of information by the Minister for Health and the Elderly on the health risk posed by coronavirus in mink herds, which could lead to reduced sensitivity to future vaccines. 2. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100055	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100122	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100149	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising this debate again today, I am almost prompted to say. We had a long discussion and a good debate, I think, on Friday in connection with the question debate, and there should be no doubt that the government takes the problem of sexual harassment very seriously. That is also why, two weeks ago, we presented a proposal with 14 initiatives to strengthen prevention and better opportunities to detect sexual harassment. As I explained last Friday during the question debate, the government is focusing its attention on the problem, both in relation to employees in Danish jobs and in relation to young people who must either have an apprenticeship or an internship. The very first thing I want to do is to meet with the social partners, expectably before Christmas. Here I would like to set in motion the tripartite discussions which I believe are essential for achieving a real change in culture in the workplace. Employers are responsible for ensuring that the working environment is in order, but unfortunately we note that there is a need for a greater political focus, because we have not solved the problem. Action must be taken both when cases arise and preferably before they arise. I expect the parties to agree with me on that. That is why I am also looking forward to hearing their contribution to how, not least, employers will take the lead in the work to be done. That is also why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, not because we do not share the proposers' demands for change and prevention because there is a need to look at whether the rules in force and the recruitment sanctions, such as those in force, are being applied. warning, expulsion or dismissal can be used more consistently than they are today but because we want to find the answers together with the social partners. As I also said when I presented the proposal: we do not reject the idea that there may be a need to tighten up the legislation. It is just a dialogue that I would like to start with the parties, and I will, of course, keep the Folketing informed of that dialogue on a regular basis. Against this background, the government is recommending that the motion for a resolution be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100406	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100409	The Minister for Employment used the term the employer is responsible for the working environment. And the employer certainly has a responsibility for it and also a responsibility for it, but if an employer has done everything right to ensure the right procedures to prevent, for example. sexual harassment in the workplace, and yet there is a customer who could not know anything about it and who does so, so it is not the employer who is responsible for it. It is the customer who is responsible for it. As in the case of a customer entering a shop and pounding an employee, it is also not the employer who has the right. So these are procedures which the employer must ensure, some complaints, that is, that the employee can turn to specific places, prevention, etc., but situations may arise anyway, and then the employer has no claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100513	In other words, it is already explicitly stated in our health and safety legislation that it is the employer's responsibility to ensure a healthy and safe working environment. And then I agree with Mr. Simpson. Ole Birk Olesen in fact, and that is why we would like to have this discussion with the social partners here... that there are some cut surfaces and some grey area discussions in this, understood in the sense that the employer is of course responsible for, for example, if a waitress is involved, that he or she is not consistently subjected as part of his or her work and working life to harassment from customers. But, of course, the harassment that is taking place is not the employer's responsibility, especially if it is punishable by criminal law. But it is the employer's responsibility to take care that the employee you have is not, as far as possible, subjected to the harassment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100610	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100613	Thank you for that, and thank you for the introduction and positive expression of this discussion. It is important that we continue to have it, and it is also important that it is taken in three parts, so thank you for that. If we still have the proposal, it is also because, as we can already see with the word exchange with Mr Beazley, we can already see with the word exchange with the President-in-Office of the Council. Ole Birk Olesen, he has to find each other in relation to how far this responsibility extends to the employer. There is no one, I think, who disagrees with the fact that there is something that an employer could not in any way have avoided or done for, in other words some of the situations which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen here mentions that an employer cannot be held responsible for that. However, there are also some situations which might have been avoided if the employer had actually been more involved in the work environment, and that is the intention here. So what does the Minister think about the responsibility of employers today: could it be extended to situations which could have been avoided by the employer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100717	First of all, I do not think it is a bad thing that the Enhedslisten has tabled this motion for a resolution and, on that basis, also promotes the debate. The government rejects the motion for a resolution, in particular because we think that more needs to be done, especially those representing employees and those representing employers, and we also have to talk about how to find the right balance in relation to this responsibility in the Folketing across the parties. And the government is not flatly opposed to making it clearer what the employer's responsibility actually is, because there will be examples which I think are those Mrs Pernille Skip refers to where it is that the employer has failed to establish procedures that could have prevented employees from, for example, being subjected to harassment by customers, even though it is actually not the employer himself who is harassing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100817	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100819	That is exactly what I am referring to. In other words, there are also situations, and we see this particularly in the hotel and catering sector, where young women, who are often also unskilled and low-paid, are particularly subjected to sexual harassment, including from customers. And it is not the case that because it is customers, employers have zero responsibility that then they can just look the other way. I hear, for example. often from women that at their workplace culture is such that if you finally go to the boss with something like that, you are not sure that the boss will back you up. So maybe you'll get closer to this: Oh, was it so bad? The reaction, that is, how to respond to the sexual harassment of customers, is, after all, the employer's responsibility, and I do not think that is clear enough today. Could the Minister not agree that this is an example of something where employers' responsibilities need to be clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100912	I think, at any rate, that there is a basis for discussing whether or not there is a need to clarify it. And I think that, in view of the marked over-representation, of the cases in which employees experience sexual harassment as part of their work, in exactly the low-wage groups, and there is one of them in the hotel and catering sector, but it is also other sectors. That in itself seems to me to be the basis for discussing clarification of responsibility and what we can do to prevent it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211100953	Thank you, we'll tell the minister. Then it is on the rapporteur's agenda. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101006	Thank you for that, President. And thank the proposers for bringing the debate on a good physical and psychological working environment back into the Folketing. Over a few years we have had a long and good process about the agreement on a new health and safety law involving the social partners, including the Danish Employers' Association and FH. I think that they were then called LO and FTF, but that is at least what forms FH today and a large number of other experts. One of the difficult points in the negotiations surrounding the Working Conditions Act has been that of the psychological working environment. And now, for the first time in the history of Denmark, we have been given an independent psychic health and safety notice, which in the section on acts of abuse, including bullying and sexual harassment, which is what is called § 22, says · and I quote quite precisely: "The work must be planned, organised and carried out at all stages, so that it is safe in terms of safety and health in the short term and in the long term in relation to acts of offence. The following is implied: sexual harassment. In the section on punishment, and that is section 36, it says and I quote again: "Unless higher penalties are due under the law on the working environment or other legislation, the penalty is imposed by fines or prisons for up to 2 years on the person who infringes, among other things. In the Social Democratic Party, we agree that this could leave room for debate and discussion on methods and responsibilities in the prevention and management of bullying and offensive acts, including harassment and abuse at the workplace. And in relation to the question raised about indirect objective responsibility in connection with sexual harassment, we have noted with satisfaction that the Minister has now invited the social partners to take part in discussions even before Christmas. It is important and good that we are discussing in this Chamber and also drafting legislation, but it is after all in the workplace that things should work in cooperation between employers and workers and colleagues. That is why we look forward to the outcome of the negotiations that will take place. We will, of course, deal with the outcome of the discussions. On this basis, we cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101246	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101333	Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten proposes to introduce indirect objective responsibility so that the employer can be held responsible for harassment by colleagues, managers, customers, clients or others who could have been avoided by appropriate measures. According to the proposal, the indirect objective responsibility refers to the fact that the employer can only be held without liability if he can demonstrate that the harassment could not have been avoided by appropriate measures. The debate on sexual harassment is extremely important and there must be zero tolerance in relation to sexual harassment in the labour market. Everyone in Denmark must be able to go to work safely without fear of sexual abuse. It is quite clear that we all have a culture in a number of areas of society that we need to change. In this work, it is important that companies use all the tools available, both prevention work and dealing with cases of sexual harassment. Employers already have an extended responsibility to ensure that sexism and sexual harassment do not take place in the workplace. Now it is only a week since we discussed sexual harassment in Parliament. And the Left, together with other good parties, put forward a proposal for adoption requiring the government to convene the social partners for tripartite negotiations with a view to finding common solutions for changing the culture of the labour market. We think it is sensible that the social partners should discuss whether they have the necessary tools to bring about a change in culture. And we look forward to following the work and hearing about the outcome of the discussions. It can therefore be said that this motion for a resolution anticipates the course of events. Having said that, the Left does not immediately believe that this resolution is the right way to go. The proposal will extend the employer's responsibility for infringements and will mean that the employer must prove that harassment must be avoided. This tends to reverse the burden of proof. It will be very difficult for an employer to lift the burden of proof, since it will always be possible to point out that more or more has to be done to prevent harassment. In addition, the question is when the requirement for appropriate measures is met. This will be left to the courts and assessed on a case-by-case basis. In addition, there may be large variations in what may be considered appropriate precautions in individual industries. Furthermore, it must also be borne in mind that increasing employer responsibility can fundamentally change the way in which we set up jobs and there is a great risk that tightening up will lead to a culture of monitoring and rigid rules in the workplace. This may mean that a man and a woman can no longer meet with a closed door or that there must be a surveillance camera in the offices. With these words, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101627	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101630	Thank you. I think we should have two little things in place around the law. It is the case that when you make legislation and it has to be properly implemented by the courts, they do so on the basis of the legislation we are making in here, including the comments, and they are also obliged to follow the practice of the courts. So when it is said that when you make legislation there may be large variations in estimates, I would say that it is indeed the primary and most important task of the courts to ensure that this is not the case. So I think that may be a slightly sought objection. It is, of course, the case with the legislation that it must be implemented by, among others. the courts, and there is some discretion in that. Nor can it always be said, in terms of indirect objective responsibility, that more could have been done. Because that is exactly what the courts are supposed to do, that is to say, to estimate when nothing more could have been done. So you can't always say that, and it's just to get in place what the proposal really is about. What I would like to hear is whether the Left believes that employers are adequately meeting their moral responsibilities today. Or is there no case where the Left thinks that some employers are failing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101740	Now I hope the questioner heard me say that this is also something we take quite seriously. Last week we helped to impose on the government that they should convene tripartite negotiations, and I know that the Minister for Employment will do so by Christmas, because we would like to see culture changed. So I am a little sorry if what the rapporteur heard me say was that there is no room for improvement. Because, yes, there's room for improvement. We just don't believe it's with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101815	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101816	I think that's really good. Because I heard that if you give employers more responsibility, it will be rich, and then men and women will never have to meet together again, and I think that is a complete distortion of this discussion. So the Left also believes that there are a number of employers today who are failing their responsibilities? Is it true that the Left agrees that there are too many employers who are failing their responsibilities and that the outcome of the trialogue negotiations, regardless of whether or not this specific proposal will come out of it, should be that employers should take more responsibility in relation to sexual harassment and, in particular, prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101855	After all, sexual harassment has filled a great deal in the last six months, and it has, of course, been because there are a great many courageous women in particular, and also men who have made themselves known about actions that have simply been unacceptable. Fortunately, there are a lot of employers who, at the request of the leaders, have agreed that we do not want to see this. So there are so many of us who want a change in culture. That is also why I am standing here and saying that we also want a change in culture and that we said the same thing last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101928	Thank you, we say to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, and we must move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211101957	This is a proposal for indirect objective liability which refers to the fact that the employer can only be held without liability if he can demonstrate that the harassment could not have been avoided by appropriate measures. This means that the employer can be required to pay compensation if something could have been done to stop or prevent harassment. I am now fully aware that there is a great difference between the place of work and the place of work. There is a big difference between working conditions in the workplace and whether it is a production company, whether it is a craft company, whether it is a hotel or it is HK, an office landscape, there is a big difference in how it is going on, but I have to promise that in a fish factory where there are many women, it has not always been wonderful to be a man, but it is just the jargon that is in the factory, and I have to say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. What is my problem in this is, of course, if you are going to believe that, if there is the least you can say that someone feels taken, there is sexual harassment when you think that about half of the Danish couples meet at work, and if you can't make some statements that a man or a woman looks good, and if they want to be interested, do you have to go back to writing a note and ask if they want to be boyfriends or something? You have to be careful what it is you're putting down on this sexual harassment thing. After all, the Danish People's Party is opposed to sexual harassment................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You just have to have the chance to get in touch with the person, if that's what you're supposed to do. I myself have some children who have met someone at work, and they would be uncomfortable if they were not allowed to offer some compliments. I hope that is not what the rapporteur would also have banned in that sense. Now I am also at that age when I can remember how it happened in women's liberation times in the 1960s and 1970s, and I have to promise that if there was something, you got a slap, and I have got my share, I will honestly admit that. You got a slap, and it was said, "Keep your hands off me." Okay, that's it, and that pot's out. As for the hotels and restaurants, I knew a waiter, and she had the tendency that if someone was bothering her, she would always fall a glass of wine into the lap of the man. Then it was over, but we must not do so today, because then we can also be punished for violence and such things. Having said that, however, I think that the presentation made by the Minister with the points on which to talk to the parties about how to prevent or at least limit it as much as possible, and preferably prevent it altogether, that someone is being subjected to sexual harassment, is a good presentation in which we are naturally waiting to hear from the Minister what the parties here have agreed on. And I do not think that we should start to legislate to make an indirect objective responsibility that actually goes out and punishes employers for something that they may not really have the opportunity to control. I think that is a bit uphill in this regard. As I have said, there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party do not think it is okay to grope for the woman, nor is it okay to grope for a man, but it is something that you should accept for yourself if you think it is okay. But you also have to distinguish between what it is to flirt with you and maybe try to form couples out at a workplace and so directly gross sexual harassment. It is clear that there is nothing there, but we hope and believe that the Minister can come up with something from the parties, where we can then take it up and talk it through in the working group. But we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102433	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102434	Thank you. I think it is a fundamental problem that this discussion can be dismissed with jokes and laughs. I really think it is. And I think it is a problem that so many responsible politicians are allowed to get away with missing the seriousness of what very many women and men are exposed to in their work by pretending to flirt no more. Nobody said that. We are faced with a serious problem in which thousands of women in particular, but also men, especially in low-wage jobs, are exposed to sexual abuse almost on a daily basis, and where their employers often do not take it seriously or strike it down. And then the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party stands here and says that we are worried about not flirting anymore. I don't even have a question. I hope you're ashamed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102550	Thank you for that, President. I can assure you that Mrs Pernille Skipper has been a little upset here, but I can guarantee that what I have said up here is not a joke. I have heard what has happened in the debates around where people have started to talk about whether it is sexism and sexual harassment, if you tell a woman that she looks good. I have heard that in previous debates, and I have also seen that it has been written in the press. However, Mrs Pernille Skip is obviously of the opinion that you should stay 2 metres apart at work and not get to touch each other in any way. What I have said up here has nothing to do with a joke.Those are stories from the real world, but Mrs Pernille Skippe has never been in it, she has never been in a workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102640	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102642	First of all, I would very much like to raise an objection to that. As a young woman, I have been a bartender, working in the restaurant business, sitting behind the box and everything else, and I have met my share of the cases we are talking about here today. Having said that, I would say that, no, I am not saying that we should stay apart for two metres, and I am not saying that we should not flirt, but I say that we have a problem in very many jobs, where employees are often young, often low-paid, often women, but also men are subjected to sexual harassment, i.e. unwanted advances, which do not stop, which are above the limit and are not flirt. I understand that there is a definition discussion in it, sir. Bent Bøgsted I am, but that's not what we're talking about here today. So will the Danish People's Party perhaps recognise that we actually have a problem which also requires political action if we are to do something for those people who are not exposed to flirtation but who are subjected to actual violations? Does the Danish People's Party see this as a problem that we politicians should perhaps take seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102751	That's funny, because I actually thought I said that here from the platform. In fact, I think I said that we in the Danish People's Party are against sexual harassment. I also think I said that we support the trialogue to which the Minister wishes to invite us. Then I came up with some examples from the real world, from when I was young myself, of how it was done in the workplace. We fully understand that some people are being harassed in the workplace. I have never claimed that we have not. But Mrs. Pernille Skipper only hears what she wants to hear. She doesn't hear what's behind it all. The Danish People's Party opposes sexual abuse in the workplace. The Danish People's Party supports the Minister's meeting with the parties, and we look forward to seeing what comes of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102842	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102843	Thank you. I understand, sir. Bent Bøgsted and several other politicians in the Chamber find it extremely amusing that women have had to slap themselves or slap themselves in the past if they were subjected to sexual harassment. I just want to ask whether Bent Bøgsted also believes that that is what should be the solution today, that is to say that you have to resort to violence in order to avoid sexual harassment at your workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102907	I don't think I've ever said it was funny. I am convinced that I said that this was how it happened in my young days. If there was a man who got too close to a woman who wouldn't put up with it, she'd slap him. I didn't think that was funny. I also had a slap myself, and I didn't think that was funny at the time either. It was in my young days when I was single and had just started working in the 1970s. That was when the liberation of women still existed, as it does not today. I didn't think it was funny, but it was a reality. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102948	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211102949	I am sorry if the rapporteur did not think it was funny that others in the Chamber did. But did the rapporteur think that was a good solution? If it was women's liberation at the time, and if what women are fighting for today, that is not having to put up with this at work, is not women's liberation, does the rapporteur think that it was a good thing at the time when we should just put down and that the fact that today we are fighting for the fact that we do not have to fight back, but actually have some rights at our workplace that make it safe to go to work is not women's liberation? Was it better when you had to fight back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103023	I wouldn't say it was, but it was effective. Of course, women should not be subjected to sexual harassment. I haven't stood on the platform either and told them to put up with everything. I certainly do not think I do, but I can go back and see that in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103040	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103047	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for putting the problem of sexism and sexual harassment to the debate again. We cannot have this debate enough, and that is what it suggests in the way we are taking the debate here in the Assembly. This alone testifies to the fact that we must have this debate over and over again. The debate over recent months based on Sophie Lindes's call also shows how important it is for us to continue the debate, but also for us to take action, and that is what we, as politicians, can do and we can legislate. Speaking of stories from the real world, a young woman called me the other day and told me that her boss at the workplace had informed his employees that some cases of sexual harassment had been reported. In the same breath he was also told that women in the workplace should know that they could also be too sloppy. And it does, of course, mean that at a job like this you wouldn't dare go to your boss if you were exposed to something or have a challenge. In the Radical Left, we have said in public on several occasions that we would like to see employers' responsibilities increased, which is what the resolution here is about. In this way, we believe that employers should also have a responsibility to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. Today, it is the case that the employer can be held responsible if the employer has failed to act on knowledge of sexual harassment. We fully agree with Enhedslisten on this. If, however, we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, if it is put to the vote, it is because, fortunately, the government is no longer sitting on its hands, but has actually taken the initiative of tripartite discussions, and because, in the context of the debate in the Chamber last week, we had a majority in favour of a text for adoption, in which we also address this reinforced objective employer responsibility. However, I would like to thank you very much for bringing the debate back up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103311	We thank the radical rapporteur. No one has asked for comments or questions. I should also like to say to Mrs Pernille Skipper that, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no need to ask questions. A comment can be made on the speaker. In this way it is passed on to everyone. So you have no duty to ask questions. You can just comment. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103333	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution and for having us back in the Chamber to discuss this extremely important issue. There can no longer be any doubt that there is a need for action to combat sexual harassment in the Danish labour market. This autumn, at least, I will remember clearly as the time when we all realized that we have simply not solved this problem. There have been extensive petitions and calls, and evidence across industries has documented that sexual harassment and sexism are a widespread and serious problem. Last week I myself had called for a question debate on the subject, and I myself asked for action from the Minister. I consider the proposal for indirect objective employer responsibility to be a key move to give the employer responsibility for preventing sexism and sexual harassment. We must strengthen the responsibility of the employer to make a commitment to creating a healthy and trusting culture, and then we must remove the blame, in particular, from the young, loose and low-paid women who are at particular risk of being harassed. We must place responsibility with the employer. The whole of society wins by a good working environment without cross-border language and inappropriate touching. I have stood here on the platform and said the same thing before: Objective employer responsibility is an important means and a very good idea. I have the impression that the Minister has become aware that several of the parties of the Folketing support it. And after the question on Monday, we were a majority who agreed on the wording of indirect objective employer responsibility in the adoption text, and I would really like to read it out so that we know what we decided earlier this week: the Danish Parliament notes that the government is planning a series of initiatives to combat sexual harassment, including calls for trialogue discussions, where among other things. must be discussed so-called indirect objective responsibility so that employers can be held responsible for harassment that could have been avoided by appropriate measures..... Out of respect for the upcoming trialogues, and after last week we were given this guarantee that indirect objective employer responsibility will be discussed in the negotiations, the SF will vote yellowly on this proposal. I think it is very good for the prevention of sexual harassment that the social partners should be involved and discuss together what can be done. The fact that we have ensured that this discussion should now include indirect objective employer responsibility is very good. However, my position is still that action is needed to combat sexual harassment, but I expect this to be the case with these trialogues.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103622	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103623	Thank you. SF said last week that people wanted to triple the compensation for sexual harassment. Then I would like to ask: will the SF vote in favour of a proposal from, for example, the United Kingdom? New citizens to triple the compensation for victims of violence too?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103639	Thank you. The rapporteur asked the same question last week and I would urge the rapporteur to grab either our employment rapporteur, if it is in the labour market, or our legal rapporteur, if it is outside the labour market. I don't know exactly where the SF is in this case. But if the compensation is just as low, so that you can't move forward after a trial as it is through sexual harassment, then we should have looked at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103703	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103704	I'm glad. It was just a question of whether people who are victims of sexual harassment are being given more weight than people who are victims of rape or anything else. But I hear you haven't taken a position on that yet, and that's fair enough if you haven't been able to decide on it. Then I would just like to be excused that the rapporteur takes care to define why we others are laughing at a story that we think is being told in a fun way. It is classical socialism and it is not a question, it is a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103730	Okay, it's classic socialism to wonder why you laugh at a story about a woman who had to resort to violence because she was subjected to sexual harassment. It may be that the rapporteur thinks so. I do not think so. In relation to whether there should be proper compensation for rape victims: of course there must be. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103750	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103802	Thank you, President. I would like to start by stating quite clearly that harassment does not, of course, belong anywhere. Recent times have shown us that the discussion and debate are topical. That is why I would also like to acknowledge the Enhedslisten of this motion for a resolution, which proposes the introduction of indirect objective responsibility for employers in harassment cases. Harassment at work can be terrible and devastating for the person it is suffering. There can be no two opinions on that. That is why we must, of course, take this issue seriously. At the same time, however, we must also think carefully before jumping to conclusions and decisions. We also owe that to the victims who are harassed. On the part of the Conservative People's Party, we do not think this is the right way to solve the problem. For by introducing indirect objective responsibility, the employer will be free of liability only if it can be proved that the harassment could have been avoided by appropriate measures. We think this is an inappropriate legal position for employers. In addition, the Minister for Gender Equality has recently presented 14 initiatives to prevent sexual harassment, including an initiative for an alliance on sexual harassment, which should be able to share knowledge and recommendations to support cultural change. It is precisely knowledge sharing that is extremely important in an area such as this, where we must together contribute to a change of culture wherever necessary. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103946	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211103953	Indirectly objective responsibility: it will be a further, very, very sharp increase in employers' responsibilities. I got to thinking about it when I heard it, and I thought it's too far-fetched, that you should now say what you could have prevented. I was wondering whether that also means that a Christmas lunch cannot be held. Because should the employer have foreseen flirting at a Christmas party? Should the employer have foreseen that when people drink alcohol, things could happen that people might not be so happy that people approached and what you do now when alcohol comes in etc.? Can you be held responsible for having those Christmas parties? I think there are some things that blow a little in the wind. On the other hand, I think it is an interesting concept, indirect, objective responsibility. Because there are, in fact, some very, very interesting considerations in it. Because if we're going to introduce it, I guess it's not just in this area. I guess it's in other areas too. If one could have foreseen that something would happen by one's decisions, then the proposers here believe that one should be held responsible for it. Then I just think: if we look at crime, it is a fact that male non-Western descendants commit twice as much crime as Danes. It's a fact. We know that. We also know that if we allow more people from non-western countries to come here, they will commit more crime. Can the victims of the violence, rape and crime committed by non-Western descendants now hold politicians responsible? Should the politicians not know that if we allow increased immigration of non-western countries, there will be an increase in crime? That is what the statistics say, and then you cannot make a decision to allow more people to come in without taking responsibility for it. So I would hope that SF and Enhedslisten think very well. Because if we are to introduce indirect objective responsibility to the self-employed, we should also, if it is not to be pure hypocrisy, introduce it to the politicians who sit in this Parliament and make decisions, and then the Danes who fall victim to violence can hold the politicians from in here personally responsible for the things that are going on there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104316	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Sir. Birk Ole Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104332	Thank you. We usually find the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution very bad, but we find this more interesting; it contains some right things, some right thoughts. It is a major problem mostly in certain industries: among serving staff, in the nightlife, and I have also heard that cashiers are subjected to sexual harassment to an extent that we do not have to tolerate. We agree with Enhedslisten that the employer has a responsibility to prevent such things from occurring. We also agree that if the employer has not done enough to prevent this from happening, then responsibility should be placed with the employer. Then this wording is used, an indirect objective responsibility, and it is explained in that way that if the employer cannot prove that he has done enough, then the employer can be punished. There we are a little more sceptical. If it had been said that if the court dealing with it can prove that the employer has not done enough, then a responsibility can be exercised, so if you can prove that the employer is guilty of not having done enough, then I think we would have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. But what it says here is that the employer must prove his innocence, and it is a principle that we have never, I think, supported, that is, that the accused must prove his innocence. We believe that it is always the accused who has to prove the accused's guilt before any liability can be imposed or some punishment imposed. However, I believe that the motion for a resolution and the ideas behind it reflect the right thinking, in other words, that something should be done to make a responsibility against employers who have not done enough to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace, and that responsibility can also be exercised if the employer has not done enough to prevent physical work injuries. In this spirit, we will look at the proposal and finalise our position later.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104621	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104623	I just want to say thank you very much for the kindness and especially for the little bastard to start with it's always nice. No, thank you to the Liberal Alliance for looking at it constructively; I think that gives the debate credit, and I really do think so. There are, of course, many places where we actually use a completely objective responsibility and where, so to speak, we reverse the burden of proof, especially when we are outside criminal law. This should not be done in criminal law, but where it is a matter of imposing liability in a more such legal form, it exists in several different forms. And that is also what we think we should start working on in connection with this, in order to be very, very clear about the fact that employers do not only have a responsibility for what they see themselves; what they hear; and what they are aware of, but also have a responsibility to ensure that there is a culture in which the measures are taken on an ongoing basis whether it is to customers or to other employees to ensure that it can be prevented as far as possible. But I would also just like to stress that, of course, we do not think that where we have done what we can and what is within the ordinary bonus pather-employer responsibility, we cannot, as an employer, do more than what is human; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104741	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104743	Yes, and we are so in agreement: where the employer has done what can be expected of an employer in order to prevent an employee from doing so in an industry where there are such frequent cases of sexual harassment, the employer must not be penalised. The only question is: who is going to prove that the employer has done enough? Is it the employer who has to prove that the employer has done enough? Or is it the court that has to prove that the employer has not done enough so that responsibility can be exercised? Mrs Pernille Skip is quite right in saying that there are parts of the legal system in relation to compensations where there are more lenient rules as to when compensation can be imposed than if you are dealing with punishment. And that is the kind of thing we have to dive into to find out how we stand in relation to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104839	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104841	I'm really glad. So it can be said that if, in this case, an employer is referred to in relation to an employee who has been subjected to abusive behaviour or maybe serious abuse, or if there is a claim for compensation or an occupational health and safety case, then there is not a prosecutor who takes over; then it is either the employee, that is to say the employee, or his representative, who has to prove that not enough has been done, or it is the employer who has to prove that it is there, after all, that there is a place where we say it is an indirect objective responsibility, because it cannot be said that the employer is responsible for everything, whatever they have done and not done, but they must nevertheless have so much control over the working environment that they can also say: we have done what it takes to avoid this to the greatest extent possible extent. But I can't wait to discuss it more with the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211104933	Well, I don't think we disagree very much. And I also hope that we do not disagree when I say that if you are an employer in an industry that has hardly ever experienced sexual harassment, for example. Santa Claus has been employed to entertain children and has never experienced in that industry that there was sexual harassment and then suddenly something happens in connection with a female educator that one could not expect, then the employer cannot be held responsible for the fact that he has not taken the necessary steps to prevent it, because he has never experienced the problem before. But if you're in the restaurant business, in the night environment or the like, the employer knows about these problems and should know about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105025	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105026	It is only if the rapporteur can confirm that the current and current legislation imposes a responsibility on employers to ensure a healthy working environment and that this also applies to sexual harassment, and if they do not, can they actually be punished at this stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105047	I understand from the comments on the draft law, which is moving in an area that I have not dealt very much with in the past, that there is a difference between whether there is a mentally poor working environment in relation to making a responsibility to the employer or whether it is a physically poor working environment. I seem to have read that out of the remarks, and I refer to that. But if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen can tell you something else, I'll have to study further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105121	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105122	Well, we can easily discuss that, but I was just about to say that when you talk about sexual harassment, sexual harassment can be both psychological and physical, so it is still covered in the same areas. And if there are problems out there, hopefully that is something that concerns some trade associations and some tripartite negotiations. So, does the Liberal Alliance think that the right thing to do is to legislate for a good working environment out there where these things won't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105154	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105155	I believe that employees and employers enter into agreements with a legal framework around them, and if there is no legal framework, they will have to make the agreements themselves. Today it is just the case that there are some laws, and then there are some agreements that have been made taking into account that we have those laws. If we didn't have the laws, the agreements would be more comprehensive. It's the practical reality we're in, and that's the reality I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105230	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105247	Thank you for that and thank you for all the comments, especially the positive ones. I think it is very important that we continue to hold on to this discussion. We have now finally come to understand, after a few years, when it was completely new at all to talk about women being subjected to violations, that this often happens in the labour market. We have now also reached a place, I think, where we have found, both with the new Minister for Gender Equality, but also generally in the debate, that it is not only something that happens to women in the entertainment industry, among highly trained researchers or others who have joined up with courageous statements in the media, but that it is in fact something that happens to some of those who usually do not have a voice in the debate. It is especially among women, but also men in low-wage jobs, in the catering and service industry, and it is HK's that it is generally people who may not just have a media platform to stand up on. I am very pleased that we remember them in this discussion and that there are also several rapporteurs who have remembered to mention them from up here today. I am also very pleased that we have moved away from a culture in which we had to strike in order to disarm ourselves from touching and that hopefully we are heading towards a culture where, firstly, it is not funny and, secondly, it is not the responsibility of women to say enough. Again, it is mainly men who do it, but it also happens with reverse sign. However, it is they who make advances that are responsible for ensuring that this is done in a way that is not offensive. It is extremely important that we change our culture. I have heard from a great many women who have been exposed to everything in their working lives. I have met quite a few women who say that they have never experienced any form of insulting behaviour in relation to their working lives. We can also read it in the statistics. Today, according to our health and safety law, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure a good and safe working environment, but we must also, in the light of the many stories that we have all heard about here, see that this responsibility does not live up to employers. There are, of course, cases in which something happens which, no matter what you have done as an employer, you have not been able to foresee and have not been able to prevent, of course there is. That is why it is not just an objective responsibility. But there are also a great many jobs where it is part of culture that insulting behaviour is something you have to put up with, something you have to swallow, something you don't piss about, and something you just have to live on with. And it is the responsibility of employers to ensure that culture is not at their workplace. This is what we in the Enhedslist want to secure with this legislation. I think we are going to a good place to do that, I hope with the development of sexism in general and especially in our labour market. I think, as several people have also mentioned, it is important that the Minister has set in motion tripartite discussions which, I hope, will lead to greater responsibility for employers as well. I would like to warn against leaving it at that. I also think that, as politicians, we have a real, real responsibility for this. It is, of course, best to say, with the Danish model, that it is the three parties who come up with it. But we, as politicians, also have a very great responsibility. Today, as an employer, it is worth turning a blind eye to sexually abusive behaviour or at least a culture where it can thrive, because one is not responsible if one has not known that it has happened. We need to go somewhere where it is only worthwhile to act and prevent. And I think that is our responsibility as politicians. Finally, I would like to say that another thing that I am also pleased about, which we did not know when we tabled this motion for a resolution, apart from the fact that, of course, it has happened, that the three parties will soon come together and that there is a proposal for adoption that has been adopted by the Danish Parliament, which is very good, and which encourages the three parties to also discuss increased responsibility for employers. At least we can cross that off on the checklist of things that I believe we are responsible for from the political point of view, and hopefully, once we have been through the trialogues, we can also put a small check mark on increased responsibility for employers in these matters. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105817	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105819	Thank you. I have one question. Before I put it, I would just like to say that the rapporteur makes an excellent account of the importance of this whole discussion in his speech. But I actually have a question that goes a little further than that, because at least when we talk about working conditions, we are not just talking about sexual harassment, so it is also about skin color, hair color, gender, ethnicity, religious background etc. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur for the proposers is not going to say anything about what we decide about this • How Enhedslisten looks at, whether it should also apply to all the other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105907	As Mr. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen probably knows, we have more than one member of the Enhedslisten who is extremely concerned about the psychological working environment and who is also very proud of the announcement changes that have taken place in recent years. We imagine that we may have had a little finger in the game with our constant focus, and there is no doubt that sexual harassment is one form of harassment that exists in our labour market. And discrimination on grounds of skin color, religion, sexuality and gender identity is certainly also true. So, yes, we also believe that we can tighten up the legislation in those areas without a doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105951	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211105953	I find it hard to swallow the fact that we are about to have such an infringement culture, where we must not laugh at something that is said in a humorous way, even if it is a serious subject. Oh, come on! No one takes sexual harassment and sexism seriously. If you were at the question debate last week, you also heard that this issue was taken seriously. But I would like to ask about this with the indirect objective responsibility, because, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this could be extended to other areas. Does Enhedslisten also believe that politicians can be held responsible for decisions that they should know they should not make and that will harm the Danes out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110040	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110041	Sir. Lars am Boje, but I do not Mathiesen to take part in a debate on non-Western immigration, which I could hear from the rapporteur's speech that he was trying to turn this debate into.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110053	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110057	No, I am trying to turn this into a debate on indirect objective responsibility that Enhedslisten himself has brought up. And if you say that it should apply to self-employed people, that is to say that they can be held responsible for decisions that they should have prevented and should know that they should not have taken, then that should also apply to politicians. And when we can see that non-Western immigrants are twice as criminals, then politicians should know that if we allow more of them to enter the country, that will mean that more Danes will also be victims of that violence, and politicians should know that, because the statistics show that. And then the politicians should also, in the same way that Enhedslisten now wants to hold the self-employed responsible for something that they ought to do. So this is about the indirect objective responsibility that the Enhedslisten will now place on a legal area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110153	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110154	First of all, I don't understand sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's desire to apparently use any debate in the Assembly Hall to get himself a good facebook clip, and frankly this reminds me of another of those situations from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's side. Secondly, I have to lecture the rapporteur on the Danish constitution, according to which every politician can be held accountable in elections for exactly what we do, whether the electorate feels that it is an indirect or totally objective responsibility. It's called democracy, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. We have been subject to direct objective responsibility from day one when we were running for the Folketing
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110241	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skip. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110315	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110320	Thank you, President. During 2016 and 2017, we saw an increasing problem with foreign visitors to Denmark, who established and settled in camps on public land. Therefore, in 2018, the Danish Parliament adopted a law authorising the Minister of Justice to lay down rules on zone bans for a municipality. As a result, the police today, according to the Order of Order, can declare a zone ban for a municipality to persons who violate the ban on setting up and staying in unsafe camps. However, due to an opt-out clause in the Act, this authorisation is to be repealed on 1 March 2021. The bill that we are discussing here repeals the expiry clause so that the Minister of Justice will be able to announce zone bans in future as well. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is sensible. Our parks, roads, ball lanes and other public areas must be accessible to everyone, but they must be used for the purpose for which they are intended. If we are to safely send our children to the local football field or to the playground in the park, it is no use if the facilities provide the framework for foreign visitors' camps. The camps create insecurity for citizens in the neighborhood, they can create unrest and noise, and the sanitary conditions around the camps are unsanitary. The camps are simply a nuisance to the surroundings, and they do not belong in a society such as the Danish one. The Danes' security and freedom to travel safely on public land should always be paramount. The law here and the Minister's authority to notify zone bans have proved to be an effective safeguard against the insecurity-building camps. If we allow the authority to expire, we will again have problems with the camps. We therefore believe that it is right to continue the authority of the Minister for Justice to notify zone bans and, on that basis, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110505	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110507	Thank you. In New Citizens we thus share a part of the concern that is at the root of this bill, namely the concern about foreign homeless people, who are gathering in insecure camps around Denmark. What we do not share with the majority here is the wish that the Danish homeless should also suffer, because unfortunately that is what we are seeing. Many Danish homeless people today fear staying in a shelter. They do, because there are foreigners, as they say themselves, who take their things. They do, too, because if they have a dog with them, it is not welcome at all shelters. Therefore, there are Danish homeless people who prefer to live on the streets and, as a result of this zoning ban, are now being threatened by the police not to be able to be together and thus face a more insecure situation than they would have had to face, which is why we in New Citizens actually want to support in principle one part of the bill, namely what is about foreigners, which is the intention of the proposal, but we would like to table an amendment which is about giving Danish homeless people the right to live in the free area, thus linking the right to live in the free area to Danish citizenship. Is this something that the Social Democrats could support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110638	No, I think you miss the dial here, because I do not think it is correct to say that this should be the case. It is, of course, the case that these are permanent camps, and the police are making individual assessments here. Permanent camps are therefore something where it has the impression that one has established oneself in a firm way. It's not a question of just putting out a lying layer and a sleeping bag and staying somewhere. The figures show quite clearly that very few Danish homeless people have been affected by this. The vast majority of those affected by these zone bans have been people with European citizenship, and then there have been some from third countries. In addition, I think it is right that it may be relevant to discuss it, because it is extremely difficult to hit a double diagnosis, and what do I know about the conditions in the shelters if the homeless person has a dog, or what do I know, but it is probably closer to the social and interior minister that you have to get there, or at least have a different conversation than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110745	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110746	When the Social Democratic Party says that it is not true that Danish homeless people are affected by this law, it certainly does not correspond to what SAND, the Homeless's National Organization, says. It says precisely that this is a bill that intended to hit these alien camps, but that it actually affects the Danish homeless and that the Danish homeless feel less secure, that they criminalise Danish citizens who live on the streets and that it is inappropriate. So what does the Social Democrats know that the homeless don't know?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110829	I do not know the figures on a stand-by basis, but I would remind you that the sentences that have been handed down, the camps that have been abolished or removed, the zone bans that have been announced, are primarily aimed at foreigners. I should not be able to deny that there are a few Danish homeless people between them too, but it is primarily foreigners that have been targeted here. Danish homeless people have not had a tradition of setting up such large permanent camps, where they are precisely organised in a more permanent way, and that is why it has not been Danish homeless people who have been affected by this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110910	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Inger Støjberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211110929	In 2016 we saw an increase in the number of foreign citizens travelling to Denmark to settle as beggars in Danish cities. They gathered together in so-called Roma camps, and the increasing extent created insecurity in many areas where previously there was security. I think we can all remember the pictures from Trinitati's Church at the Round Tower, where there was a large Roma camp in the church area. It was going all wrong here. The camp was a major nuisance to the surroundings, and its inhabitants caused noise and anxiety to passersby. In addition, it flowed with waste and excrement from the camp's residents, and the church's employees eventually had to be vaccinated against hepatitis because they had to go and clean up every single day. For me, there is no doubt that we should not go back to that, which is why it is important that we continue to crack down on foreign beggars coming to Denmark. In the past, there have been cases of Danish homeless people, as has just been mentioned here, which were not the objective of this legislation, but which were, in the first instance, affected by the zoning ban. After all, it has been terribly sad to keep up, which is why I also find it gratifying when you look into the figures, because only 6 out of the 231 zone bans since 2017 have been notified to Danish homeless people. In addition, no zone bans or warnings have been issued throughout 2020. This is, of course, partly due to corona closure, and partly mainly because the zoning bans have acted preventively. The number of reported zone bans has only decreased since 2017, and that is really good. The foreign beggars no longer settle here, and the problems we faced in 2016 and 2017 are no longer seen to the same extent. The Roma camps are gone, and the policy of the previous government has therefore also worked. Now that it works, shouldn't it go on? I think that is quite certain, and that is why we are voting in the Left to remove the opt-out clause that was in this case, so that the police can use the zone ban as a tool to ensure the safety of the Danes after 1 March next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111208	Thank you to Mrs Inger Støjberg. No one has asked for brief comments, so we need to move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111228	In the Danish People's Party, of course, I would have liked to say that we must continue the legislation that we ourselves, as a party, helped to push the previous government into making, and it was born of what several speakers have mentioned here, namely that we saw a great menagerie of Eastern European Roma and others who stayed in especially the major Danish cities such as Copenhagen, Aarhus and Vejle. There we saw these conditions, which were totally unacceptable. Then there are some speakers who say that everything is good now and that everything has been resolved. Maybe that's an exaggeration. There may be other reasons why the problem has not been so great this year, so we need to keep up our efforts to ensure that we do not see foreign citizens travel to Denmark to live in these alternative ways of caring for parks and green spaces and desecrating cities with insecurity, ugly conditions and general inappropriate behaviour. You see very often that these groups, typically Roma, feed themselves by rooting in garbage cans, collecting bottles and committing crime in order to get money to live in Denmark and maybe take money home or send money home. In the comments on the proposal, we can read that out of the 231 zone bans that have been granted, the vast majority have been given to foreign nationals and that six have been given to Danish nationals. That is not many, but in our view it is 6 too many. Because it is not our impression that Danish homeless people, who have come together to find security a late night hour, practice any insecurity-building behaviour towards other people, at least from a general point of view. So we have a need to discuss what you do in relation to Danish homeless people who get into the situation that they are hit by a zone ban. But the government tells us often and so did the previous government that we do not have the opportunity to discriminate between Danish and foreign citizens. But there we must just say from the point of view of the Danish People's Party that it would be the most fair thing to do, that is to say that one could discriminate and say that if one comes as a foreigner and is not a Danish citizen and carries on the activities that are very insecure for citizens, for example. In Copenhagen, special rules apply to non-Danish nationals. So, of course, there has to be a difference between own citizens and foreigners in this legislation. Then we have the other way round, we can say fortunately, some good Danish policemen who show some kind of conduct in relation to the assessment of these zone bans. In general, we can distinguish between Danish Daniel and Romanian Drago, and that is quite fine for us, because we obviously cannot write it directly into the law, and then we have to do it in other ways. I would, of course, like the Minister of Justice or anyone else from the government to come up here and tell us what they are going to do to distinguish, but until a solution is found, we can hope that our police will be able to do so. If you go through the major Danish cities, there is overall a difference in how it is now and how it was a few years ago, when there were a lot more Roma people who had this insecurity-building behaviour, and that's probably not just because of the corona, but that's probably why you don't see these Romanian camps where a larger group of Romanians have come together to inhabit a green area in the middle of the city, which after they've left it looks like a dump. It may not be just because of the corona, but it may also be because of the corona that you've seen this development. So the law has worked, the zoning ban is good, we support it, and we think we should continue with it, and that is why we support the government's proposals, but hope that we will ensure that we can discriminate so that it does not in any way affect the few Danes who have otherwise been affected by this ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111708	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111711	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it would be much easier if there were one set of rules for one group and another set of rules for another group. But one of the things that really characterises our rule of law and our rule of law is that there is equality before the law. So I just want to know whether the Danish People's Party, with the rapporteur's speech, believes that there should be no equality before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111739	You may be allowed to discriminate in law. After all, we are discriminated against today. I mean, older people get old people's checks. Not everyone gets an old check. Young people who study get su. Danish citizens who have either acquired Danish citizenship or have had it all the time enjoy special rights in relation to voting. They could be cops. So we are, after all, discriminated against everywhere in the legislation today. Why should we not be allowed to discriminate against Danish and foreign citizens here? What does Mr. Kristian Hegaard for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111815	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111817	After all, there is a difference between giving a pension to young students or granting a pension to people who have completed the job market. However, what I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, and to which the rapporteur does not reply, is that there is a fundamental principle in a society governed by the rule of law that, if you want to punish people, you are equal before the law. That is why I want to hear from the rapporteur whether this means that the Danish People's Party does not think that one should be equal before the law of a legal society and in a constitutional state, in other words that the same rules apply to all people when it comes to punishing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111847	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111848	One must be equal before the law, but one must be allowed to discriminate against citizenship. And if it were for the Danish People's Party, the Roma criminals we are talking about here were expelled from the country on the spot. There have then been changing governments on which we have not been able to twist our arms when it happened, but we have, after all, been able to do some other things, for example. We've made these zone bans, which means that we're sending a signal that they're allowed to go home, preferably right away. But we have to go back to the question: can we be allowed to distinguish between Danish and non-Danish citizens? Yes, we must. And if you're not a Danish citizen and you do crime, it's off guard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111927	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211111928	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech, with which I can only say that I very much agree. Denmark is the Danes' country. Denmark is the Danes' country, Denmark is no other country. Denmark is the Danes' country, which is why it is natural for us in New Citizens to say: Let us now link the right to live in the free in Denmark to Danish citizenship. This is an amendment that we will be tabling during the legislative procedure, and from what I can hear from the rapporteur's speech, it sounds as if it is a proposal that DF would like to support. I just want to know if the rapporteur will confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112009	A hundred percent. We are in complete agreement. So there is no problem with the Danish People's Party and New Citizens in relation to this. I think we should look over at the Social Democrats and, as such, also the Left and Conservatives, with whom we fought under the previous government, where we could not twist their arms. These were conventions that we talked about. There are all kinds of explanations. But the bottom line is this legislation has to be directed against foreign citizens. It should not be aimed at Danish homeless people, and that is what we need to make clear. So all fire on the government and the parties that haven't wanted to do this so far is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112052	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112053	I'm really glad. It is true that there is a difference between parties that consider Denmark to be the country of the Danes and parties that think that international agreements and conventions should stand in the way of our being able to look after our country and that we can have it as our own and set the framework for how we want to live here in Denmark. So thank you to the DF for supporting the new citizens' amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112114	The rapporteur? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup. Excuse me, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112124	Now I suddenly had some doubts. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party cannot answer that Danes should be allowed to camp around the Round Tower and throw excrement and garbage and something like that? I don't think so. It would be something worse to have inside the city, even if it were some Danes who would do it. I hope that will not be allowed by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112148	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112149	I knew I could count on you. No, we can't say that. I knew I could count on sir. Ole Birk Olesen in relation to this. Of course, under no circumstances is it reasonable for the Danish homeless to behave in a way that gives insecurity or to do so, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions here. Nobody likes that. When I say that we have to be able to discriminate here, it is about the fact that we are going to expel people who are committing this kind of crime, as it has been since the Folketing entered into legislation in this area, and as it is also according to a number of other pieces of legislation we have. So for me, this is about saying goodbye and thanking people who do not want to comply with Danish rules, and we must be allowed to discriminate there. That is what the discussion is about. We may say to foreign citizens: Home with you!
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112251	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112251-2	But now the problem has arisen in concrete terms with some Romanian citizens, probably Gypsies, down around the Round Tower. Then Mr. Kevin's gonna be... Peter Skaarup asked: Will the Danish People's Party vote in favour of an amendment which allows Danes to live freely under the open sky? He is asked about this by Mrs Pernille Vermund, and Mr. Peter Skaarup yes. I just have to say that I am not voting in favour of an amendment that allows Danes to camp around Trinitati's Church and Round Tower and there feed the bushes and throw garbage all over the place. So I don't want that, even if it's Danes who do it. But will the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112328	Now New Citizens may not be allowed to respond for the sake of the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, but I think I will then be allowed to reply perhaps on behalf of New Citizens and at least on behalf of the Danish People's Party and say that no one wants to support public parks or commit any of the crimes committed by these Eastern European criminals, which are the reason for the proposal. So it's not okay. But what is all right is that we would like to allow the homeless to sleep outside one night, if that is where it comes, without, of course, doing the things that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112409	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112432	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here deals with maintaining the possibility of granting a zone ban by setting up so-called insecurity-building camps. Before 2018, it was possible to prohibit certain people from camping in an area of 400-800 metres, and this was then transformed into an opportunity for a zone ban on an entire municipality in case of insecurity-building camps. First of all, I would like to thank the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten for having made an agreement with the Radical Left earlier this year to clarify rules on insecurity-building camps, in relation to their being of a permanent nature. This means that if, for example, you pack up your sleeping stuff during the daytime, it will not be considered permanent and therefore not a camp in the sense of the law. However, on the part of the Radical Left, we still see with concern the rules we are discussing here today on zone bans. This is due, among other things, to: the strong criticism from social organisations, the Lawyers' Society and the Institute of Human Rights, all of which revolve around the fact that the zone ban with this can be given to an entire municipality and to a large extent also affects the homeless, and it is a very large area when it is an entire municipality, and therefore it is assessed in many of these hearing responses to be involuntarily. And then we think that in re-examining this, as is happening now, a proper evaluation should have been carried out, as several of the consultations also point out. For these zone bans, as described in the draft law's comments, are only given in the City of Copenhagen, and one must always look at whether less intrusive action can be taken to achieve the same purpose. Because in principle you can just set up a camp somewhere else in another municipality, and then you have actually moved the problem and not solved it. I would also like to make it clear that the Radical Left is concerned when someone turns up permanent living or sleeping places at the Amager Common or in parks. It should not take place, but that is precisely where the zone ban can be targeted, rather than a whole municipality. We want to make a targeted effort and not shoot with a shotgun, which risks hitting innocent people, which is why Radicals cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112718	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. No one has signed up for further comments. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211112740	Gradually a few years ago, the Folketing passed a law authorising the Minister of Justice to lay down rules on zone bans for a municipality in the event of unsafe camps. In the SF we were opposed to that proposal, among other things. because we do not want to make the conditions for our homeless even more intolerable than they are in the past, and because at least at that time we thought that there were problems with legal certainty. We also said, however, and we still believe that we can actually see the need to avoid more permanent camps in parks and in the Common, where there have been major challenges. After all, the bill ended up causing a number of problems in practice. We have actually had a visit from André, who was one of the homeless, who happened to be sleeping somewhere in Copenhagen, where there were also other homeless people. It is not so uncommon that you seek the same place, nor is it uncommon that you are more together for the sake of security. He then collected a penalty for that, but André and his comrade were helped to bring the case to court, and they won; they had not made a permanent camp. I think the matter shows two things: Homeless people could not feel safe, and there were also critical consultation answers, and we can see that there are still organisations that say that this creates an insecurity for homeless people in everyday life; they are simply afraid to be affected by the law. But it also shows that legal certainty is skewed and that this was not and maybe it still isn't very easy for the police to handle. As a result, over the summer of 2019 we agreed on certain adjustments with the government, so that the ban on insecure camps only covers those who are of a more permanent nature and who create insecurity, and it is not designed to hit the individual homeless, who are forced to spend the night on the street when cleaning up every day. We also gave the police the opportunity to give a warning instead of a genuine zone ban, which we thought was a step in the right direction, and then we agreed to look at the matter again with an evaluation. One of the improvements we would have liked to have made at the time was that the police should always give a warning in first-time cases. In fact, we think it would be most reasonable to people who are homeless and cannot just disappear out of the street and into a warm living room, because they don't have one of those. Then they can avoid criminalising themselves by getting guidance that they must not make permanent camps and what constitutes one of them and what they have done wrong. Instead, we let the hammer fall the second time. However, I think it makes good sense to give vulnerable people a chance, so we will try to see if it is actually possible I do not know at this stage to make some kind of amendment on it. Whether we vote for this proposal to make the law permanent will depend very much on that amendment, but we would like to say that we are sceptical about this legislation and we would prefer to have an evaluation before we permanently made the law and not after. We recognise that permanent camps are not pretty to look at, and we therefore recognise that they can create insecurity when they grow to the extent of parks and other places. It is just not a viable solution for people from other countries, and they are the ones most affected by the law. We must also be honest about getting here and getting through on the street, and in this respect it is a pity that we no longer have an offer that is actually trying to help them home. I know the City of Copenhagen has had that and they have had great success in bringing these people up to NGOs in their home countries, where they will then be helped back, because it is clear that they have no future here in Denmark. In those words, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113212	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113222	Thank you. After all, it is said that a society must be known by how it treats its weakest, and that is why I was very sad to see that the government wants to lift the sunset clause on a law that helps criminalise being homeless and socially exposed. In the Enhedslisten, we feel a little different. We actually care about those who have no option but to live on the streets, and these are the ones you hit when you make these bans and this criminalisation of homelessness. So instead of fighting homelessness, one has just decided to criminalise it, because then it may disappear on its own, but that is not the case. If we are to start with the discussion about camps I have also listened to the debate I would like to say that we in the Enhedslisten feel that you should not live in a camp. It is not worthy of anyone, either for Danish citizens or foreign nationals, to live in a camp. I also fully agree with the rapporteurs who have said that these camps have been a nuisance to citizens, for example. Those who have been to Amager Fælled and around Copenhagen but we think that people should be helped further. For Danish citizens, there must be one type of effort, and for foreign nationals there must be another type of effort. It is true that many of the people who come up here and live under shaky conditions in a so-called camp or as homeless people on the streets, for example. in Copenhagen, often have come to look for work, but quickly find out that there is no work for them in Denmark. Therefore, many of them experience a social deroute and eventually end up homeless. In Denmark we must help them further, for example. by helping them back to the country in which they are nationals in a dignified way. Social organisations can help with this, and I think we should focus much more on that. Fortunately, in the spring we managed to clarify the rules on insecurity-building camps a little bit, and that was something that Enhedslisten, SF, Radicals and the government did together, but we do not really think that we were going to achieve it; we would like to see this criminalisation of homelessness abolished altogether, and therefore we cannot support this bill either. By 2020, the police have not announced a zoning ban... not a single one... and we are in December now. Nevertheless, the government believes that the police need a better tool, as stated in the proposal. But what are they gonna do with that tool? Of course, one can say that the number has fallen, and that is true, but is it because the police have got this tool or are there other reasons? And you can also ask yourself if you really think that as soon as this bill disappears, a lot of people sit at home and are just ready to run out and move into a camp. I do not think so, and I really do not think that anyone else in this Chamber is thinking about it, and that is why I find it a little difficult to see what this bill is really going to do. I agree with the Lawyers' Council, the Judicial Union and the Lawyers' Association, which point out in their hearing that the tool that the government wants to provide to the police is far from proportional to the nature of the problem. Tools of such an intrusive nature as a zone ban are not just something to be introduced because it is smart to have; it has to be because it solves a real problem and, as you know, this legislation does not. We also agree with the Institute for Human Rights, which points out that a thorough evaluation of the impact of the law, the importance of the rules for living conditions of vulnerable groups and the enforcement of the rules in practice should be carried out before any legislative proposal is adopted. In addition, several consultation responses also point to the fact that this is really a ban on homelessness. SAND points out that people do not dare to sleep together for fear of being considered as a camp, and that is actually one of the reasons why I am so happy that I managed to clarify the announcement just a little, so that there is now a lot of focus on permanent camps and not those who sleep one night together to feel safe, for example. Out in front of a church, in a square, or where you go to sleep when you don't have a home. But despite the fact that the Order was successfully clarified, the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113708	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113723	Thank you, President. You have to be able to travel safely in Denmark. This is absolutely crucial for our society. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing forward this bill, which proposes that the opt-out clause, which was the right of the Minister for Justice to issue rules on zone bans for a municipality to persons who violate the ban on setting up and staying in unsafe camps, should be lifted. In Denmark, of course, we should not have insecure camps where foreigners camp in public places and make passersby, neighbors or others insecure. It was something that really filled 2-3 years ago. There were many complaints from ordinary citizens and several municipalities expressed the need for action. It was there, and it has had a really good effect. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen examples of this happening here recently. That is why the previous government also took action against those insecure camps. I think it was important and necessary measures. In this regard, a zone ban proved to be a good tool for the police. It is precisely for this reason that the possibility of a zone ban was also extended, so that it applies in an entire municipality. I also note that it is the government's opinion that the right to notify zone bans for a municipality has proved to have a positive effect on the fight against unsafe camps and that the lifting of the authorisation could increase the number of unsafe camps. We share that view in the Conservative People's Party, and we note with satisfaction that the measure has worked so far. Zone bans work, and we support that. By the way, I was told by the Liberal Alliance that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113933	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211113946	Thank you. In New Citizens we do not want foreign homeless people to establish and stay in insecure camps in parks, on public roads or elsewhere. But it is probably no secret that we are not enthusiastic about the law on zone bans adopted by the Danish Parliament a few years ago; a law that allows the police to also allow Danish homeless people to be banned from living in an entire municipality. That is why we say very clearly that we want to link the right to live in freedom to Danish citizenship. For us, the Zone Ban is a class example of one of the many patch solutions in the field of aliens adopted by the politicians in here for decades. They want to end Roma camps and foreign homeless people, which create insecurity for, among others, Roma camps. the Danish homeless. But who are they? They are the Danish homeless, and we do not want to be involved in that. In Denmark there must be room for the Danes who live differently from the majority. We should not create problems for them, but rather address the real problems. For us, it's about what the individual wants. We Danes have a long and good tradition of being spacious to Danes who are and live differently. We must not flush that out with the bathing water because we do not dare to grasp the root of the nettle and solve the immigration policy from scratch. Therefore, we say clearly that foreign homeless people should not be in Denmark at all, and that Danish homeless people must of course be helped better than they are today. They must be provided with housing, help and support, if that is what they want. They need to be able to use a shelter if they want to. No Danes will involuntarily live on the street. That is why we must ensure coordinated action with accommodation in a first priority. But if, as a Dane, you want to live peacefully and properly on the street, you must be allowed to do so calmly, even if you gather in smaller groups for social togetherness, security and warmth. Together we must ensure the most vulnerable Danes a life they themselves define as worthy and good. I don't want society to define the good life. You should not live with constant concern about being removed by the police or being attacked by foreign homeless people. Denmark is the Danes' country and therefore New Citizens' amendments to link the right to live in the free to Danish citizenship. As the bill stands now, we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114245	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we are done with the rapporteur's series, and now it is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114258	Thank you for the debate and thank you for the comments. I can see that my speaking time was cut to 1 minute and 45 seconds, and that might be right on the bottom. After all, the legislative proposal that we have before us, which can continue the regulation that exists, is that it has solved a real problem. In other words, Gypsy camps and other camps have been mentioned, which we have wanted to do away with, because they created insecurity and because crime was linked to them and so on. That's why this regulation was made. Since 2017, the Copenhagen Police have announced 231 zone bans. Six of them are given to Danes, 192 to EU citizens and 33 to third country citizens. And I believe, as the debate has developed today, that there are simply some misunderstandings. For as regulation is now, three conditions must be met before a zone ban can be lifted. Firstly, there must be a camp; secondly, the camp must be permanent and, thirdly, it must be insecure. The fact that there is to be a camp, in fact I do not think any of us have any difficulty in seeing it in our eyes, if you think about what a camp is, means that it is in the open air, and that there is a certain degree of sleeping or resting space and the like. What should help determine whether it is permanent or not is what the physical device is like, i.e. how possessions are stored and whether there are food, waste, urine and feces. This is not a simple sleeping area. Finally, there is the problem of insecurity, and it also depends on a number of different criteria: location, whether it is a nuisance to the environment, the number of people who are there and whether there is harassment and threatening behaviour. All these conditions must be met in order to be able to intervene with a ban on zones. This means that the Danish homeless, who of their own free choice do not want to have a roof over their heads, who are homeless in a classical sense and who are on the street, will not be affected by a zone ban. In fact, I believe that the agreement made by the Red parties, the Social Democrats and also the Radicals must be recognised here, that it must be permanent, because that is what gives us the opportunity to ensure that those who live on the streets, those who have nights, those who do not bother, and so on, do not suffer from this. That is why what is being proposed here is to say that we have to discriminate here, I do not really think it is right, because the problem that is being drawn, namely that many Danes are being affected by this scheme, is not real, and certainly not after we have permanently attached to it. Apart from this, of course, the whole social effort has to take care of the homeless, who do not want to live on the streets, so whether there is a shelter, and it is often also a question of what the possibilities are for psychiatric treatment, support and so on. But that problem is a little different from my table. However, I should like to thank the majority of Parliament who support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114644	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114645	Thank you. It is comfortable if it is the rest of us who misunderstand the bill and also the homeless out there who misunderstand how the law has worked so far. I understand that the government, with its support parties, has introduced a change which means that now the problems with the Danish homeless feeling insecure are resolved. It is easy to say, after a year of covid-19, a year in which we have had a completely different and extreme situation and therefore we have not been able to measure whether what we want to do has actually worked. What we are concerned about, and why we are concerned, is that there are organisations in which the homeless unite, who say that Danish homeless are actually being affected and that they feel criminalised and more insecure. The minister says that with this bill, it means that Danish homeless people will not be affected by the zone ban. Does this mean that we can be sure that not one Danish homeless person will be affected after this has been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114801	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114803	I think that the rapporteur is simply consciously overlooking the interpretation of the rules which has also been used by the courts, which means that the flexibility is there, so that the individual overnight stays of the Danish homeless who roll out their bedroom and sleeping bags etc. And I think, and I am sorry, that the rapporteur has not really read down the conditions for applying the law, namely that there must be a camp, and that it must be permanent, and that it must also be insecure. I mean, is there any kind of harassment of those who stay there? Is this at all a nuisance to the environment, etc.? All three things must be completed at once before you can make a zone ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114849	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114850	Now it is not, in fact, because I have not read down the comments on the hearings. It's kind of because I'm honestly and sincerely worried about the Danes who live out there. So if the state... The Minister of Justice why do I keep calling the Minister of Justice the Prime Minister? It's just a Freudian slip here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114923	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114924	But I can't guarantee that. But what I can say is that the way the rules are drawn up, that there must be a camp, that it must be permanent and that it must be insecure, there will be some of the cases which were then struck at the beginning and which everyone does not think were intended to be able to arise anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114946	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211114959	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115016	Thank you. When we passed Law No. 349 on enhanced penalties for offences based on, or linked to, covid-19, we also agreed that the Minister of Justice should submit proposals for revision of the provisions of the law by 30 November 2020. This draft law proposes that the revision clause in Section 4 of the Act. the third subparagraph shall be deleted; This will mean that a number of provisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and the Aliens Act will apply until 1 March 2021, where they will automatically be repealed as a result of the sunset clause of the Act, unless the Folketing decides to extend the period of validity in advance. In concrete terms, the first is a significant increase in the penalties for offences based on, or linked to, the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark. Secondly, it is a question of giving the police the opportunity to put in place effectively the blocking of websites from which certain offences are committed which are based or linked to the covid-19 epidemic. Thirdly, it is a question of the expulsion of foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty under the penalty clause in Article 81d of the Criminal Code, unless it is certain that it would be contrary to our international obligations. All the way through the Corona crisis, the Danes have shown their social minds. Both citizens and companies have shown that we think of each other and take responsibility for Danish society, of which we are part. Unfortunately, there are always stumbled vessels and, unfortunately, there are a number of examples of crime that are linked to or related to the epidemic. This applies, for example, to fraudulent exploitation of the aid packages. It is an insult to the social spirit of the majority and it is a threat to the fundamental trust in each other on which the fight against the pandemic is based. We must not tolerate that. We must have respect for the sacrifices and efforts that ordinary Danish citizens and companies make every day during the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to maintain the regulatory framework that allows for the effective and significant prosecution of criminals who commit offences against the background of or in connection with the epidemic in Denmark. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115212	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115226	When we are discussing today the repeal of the revision clause in the law, and therefore the continuation of aggravating penalties for corona-related crime, this must be seen in the light of the situation we faced in the spring, which we are unfortunately still in. While the first wave of the corona poured in over Denmark, the Danes and the Danish Parliament definitely moved together, but there were also some stray vessels that saw their cut to take advantage of the situation. We saw thefts of hand alcohol and protective equipment from our hospitals when resources were scarce. We saw people who abused aid packages to pull money out of our common box • aid packages, which we had otherwise made available to needy citizens and businesses. And then we saw trick thieves who cheated people with fake e-mails and tricked their way forward to older citizens by impersonating themselves as being sent from the authorities. Against this background, we in the Left proposed to tighten up the penalties for criminals who took advantage of the crisis that Denmark and the rest of the world had suddenly ended up in. The government and the Danish Parliament immediately supported it, and in record time we had to deal with these forms of corona crime. At that time, we politicians were so united, and there were hardly any limits to what we could agree on. Of course, not so many people are insulted by saying that it is not exactly the same thing that happens in all the political discussions that we have at the moment. One thing I think we can still agree on, however, is to protect citizens, hospitals and our common treasures from those criminals who are trying to exploit the Corona crisis for their own gain at the expense of all of us. Unlike in the spring, we can fortunately see some light at the end of the tunnel. We are better in control of the epidemic, perhaps with the exception of just now, when it all looks a little dark. But in particular, a vaccine will hopefully be on its way soon. In the meantime, we in the Left believe that it is important that we can continue to crack down on corona-related crimes until we are free of the corona and, of course, also the abominable crime it has caused. That is why we in the Left are voting in favour of this proposal to abolish the revision clause and allow the penalties to apply until March next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115506	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115520	It seems that the government is finding the tune, because here we have another good proposal from the government. We are discussing a proposal that, from a criminal point of view, should protect society from fraudsters and impostors who take advantage of the situation that Denmark is in now and has been in here during 2020. It is a law that has clearly been necessary. This can also be seen in a number of cases that have been brought before the courts. There are some who have either been convicted or are about to be convicted of various forms of fraud in the context of the support of society and help to those citizens and businesses who have and have needed a handout from society during a very critical period for our society. In addition to the penalties that have ended up with appalling fines, compensations and prison sentences, 11 criminal foreigners have so far been expelled, each of whom has tried to swindle against Danish society, and three more cases are being dealt with. And I'm gonna need you to sneak up on me if you don't get any more. But the thing is that criminal foreigners can only be happy to get rid of as a consequence of this legislation when it comes to corona crime. So all in all we in the Danish People's Party will say that we are well satisfied with the law and we are well satisfied with the effect that has been achieved, because when society holds hands with citizens in crisis situations, it is of course not necessary to sign off on the tack and swindle, and certainly not on the side of foreigners. Covid-19 is unfortunately still a reality, and therefore this legislation still makes sense, and therefore the Danish People's Party is voting for an extension that the government is proposing. Because, of course, one should not be able to take advantage of it, so that one can benefit from the health and economic crisis in which Denmark is in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115726	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211115748	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is in a health crisis, not a crime crisis. It is the rate of infection that is high, not the number of crimes. Yesterday, over 3,000 people were infected with covid-19. Theft of alcohol is approaching zero. I know what crisis I think we should act on and which poses a problem. A bill was tabled when one heard of a few thefts of hand-shooting ■ deeply reprehensible thefts, no doubt about it because there are some who never show a social mind, some who exploit situations or other people's condition to commit crime, that is deeply unacceptable, and the criminals never take time off, whether it is here for Christmas or in the Corona crisis, and unfortunately this is also true of the Corona crisis. Nowadays, however, large parts of this law are useless, as it is a condition for the double punishment of theft of protective equipment that the protective device constitutes a scarce resource. Fortunately, it is no longer a spirit of hand, and it was not, shortly after the law was passed. When the bill was discussed, there were only about 14 reviews of hospital theft • Most were about a single booze in a toilet • Perhaps by a confused, skilled nurse on the way home after a hard and long shift. The biggest catch was 5 litres of alcohol, and they were even returned when the thief was caught. So that is not what caused them to lack protective equipment, and I find it difficult to see how we should in any way double out of it. History also shows that it is unwise to punish according to the mood of the people, and it was extremely strange that in the legislative process for this bill there should suddenly be foreign policy in it at the end. Let us take an example to emphasize the absurdity of this law: if two people go into the same stairwell, one disguised as a caretaker from the housing association and the other disguised as a health caretaker, why should there be double punishment for the person who commits trick theft on the second floor if the other does the same on the first floor? Both of them are totally unacceptable. The Radical Left is in return for that part and we also said so at the time of the fraud involving aid packages, because it is in all its simplicity that it is based to a large extent on beliefs and declarations of law in relation to other kinds of services. It was to reduce bureaucracy and give an outstretched hand and to show confidence. So if you could agree to concentrate the law on it, that would be fine. But first of all, let us act on the fact that we have a health crisis, not a crime crisis, and this is unfortunately not reflected in the fact that we continue to have this law, which is why the Radical Left is extremely sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120153	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120156	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur does not think that a distinction should be made between a Dane or a foreign national. When we talk about fraud with the aid packages, which there are already a number of cases on the table, and I also understand that this is one of the areas of the legislative proposal that the Radical Left could actually support, there are also people who get relief packages that are not Danish citizens. Does the Radical Left believe that foreigners who come here should be allowed to commit this kind of crime without expulsion being part of their punishment? So, the Radical Left thinks they should be allowed to stay in Denmark when they commit this kind of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120243	We think this is totally unacceptable, regardless of who is committing an offence of this nature, where aid packages are fraudulent, because they have been drawn up in record time and with the aim that there should be as little bureaucracy as possible so that they can get out quickly. That is why we find it deeply unacceptable, regardless of who does it. With regard to the issue of expulsion, we have some general rules which go to the number of years you go to prison and such things, and it would be sensible to follow that stairs, including in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120317	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120319	What we actually got tightened up with this legislation was that if people who have been here for up to 10 years are scamming with these millions of dollars for some of them, we can also expel them. Does the Radical Left not think that it is reasonable that if you have been here for less than 10 years, you should be deported if you are scamming for millions of Danish tax dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120348	This is deeply unacceptable, regardless of who is scamming with aid packages paid out in record time, which relate to very large sums of money, which are intended to help keep the wheels running and which are largely based on faith and legislative declarations, so that there should not be a great bureaucracy in applying for them, as you know in all kinds of other cases. As far as the issue of expulsion is concerned, we have a general stairway for what is being compared with how many years you have been in Denmark, with the punishment you get, and the stairs we think you should also follow in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120427	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120449	Thank you for the floor. We are in a situation where infection is increasing and there is still a massive health crisis. No one can predict whether there will be shortages in the future, as we saw in the first phase of covid-19, but we know that aid packages are still being given to those who are being shut down. That is why we do think it is important for these measures to continue, because we need to crack down on those who commit fraud or abuse some of the aid packages that we, as a society, are making available, both in the field of employment and in business. It is, of course, a question of society putting huge sums of money into this, and this is happening without any counter-claims. That is why, of course, it must also be quite clear that we are dealing with abuse. We need to keep track of the funds we spend on keeping the economy afloat, and the money must of course be spent on what we have allocated it to. Unfortunately, we have already seen several serious cases of covid-19-related financial crime. That is why I believe that the law has proved its worth. The authorities receive a great many notifications of fraudulent use of the aid packages, which is why, of course, we still need a clear indication that this is not something we will accept. And, of course, by the fact that the law only runs until March, we can also support the proposal to remove the review clause here and allow the measures contained in the proposal to continue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120634	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So it is now Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120642	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, firstly, I think it is very good that we have this discussion. Because when you make urgent legislation, it is also really, really important that you evaluate it and discuss it again and again, quite quickly. So we think that is really positive. But then I think it stops there too. In the Enhedslisten, we did not support the bill back in March, and we did not do so because it was decided to turn it into a question of foreign policy, and we in the Enhedslisten do not think this is a question of that. We think it is a question of legal policy and we support the proposal so far along the way that we think it is very sensible that there should be higher penalties for fraud with aid packages, that is, what we might call economic crime. We also think it is very good that a signal is being sent that, of course, protective equipment should not be stolen, and certainly not from socially critical places such as hospitals and nursing homes where protective equipment is urgently needed. Nor do we support the proposal today that the law should continue, and that is because, as in the Radical Left, we ask ourselves whether it has really been necessary to make this law at all. Well, did it even work? It can be said that, whether we have this law or not, we are, fortunately, in the position that our criminal law is working, that our justice law is working, that our prosecution authority and police are working and that the courts are working. I think, and we think in the Enhedslisten, that it is important that we make a real effort when we make decisions in such serious areas, and we do not think that we have done so here. As I said, we are questioning very much whether this law is even necessary. In fact, I believe that people know that in such a serious health crisis, of course, you do not steal protective equipment, and if you do, we do have legislation today that defines it as illegal. We would very much have liked to have been involved in discussing it, but as soon as it was decided to make it a question of foreign policy, we thought it stopped making sense. So we support the part of the proposal or the part of the current law that is about tightening the penalties for cheating on aid packages and for financial crime, but the rest we find it difficult to see ourselves in, which is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120928	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211120944	Thank you. We have seen an increase in infection rates in Denmark for some time now, which shows that, unfortunately, the coronapandemic is still among us. It has been and continues to be a very special and extraordinary situation in which our societies and other societies have come to such a test. Unfortunately, there are stout criminals who want to exploit the crisis to commit crime. It must, of course, be severely punished when you choose to commit crime based on such a serious situation. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we supported it in the spring when we introduced stricter penalties for offences based on, or linked to, the covid-19, and when we gave the police the opportunity to effectively block websites from which crime was committed against the background or context of the covid-19, and we are still doing so away. For there should be no doubt that we are looking at this kind of crime with the deepest seriousness and that we believe that we should be severely punished for exploiting the serious situation. We have already seen that it has been used in the case of cheating on aid packages, which should go to some of the companies that are financially under pressure. I think we are all deeply opposed to this behaviour and, of course, it must be reflected in the punishment. In addition, the provisions also have a preventive effect which will deter potential criminals from committing crime based on covid-19. We must, of course, do everything we can to prevent that. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121137	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121155	Thank you for the floor. When we adopted the law here in the spring, it was probably the first law that New Citizens thus had a real influence on, and therefore also a law that I have been delighted with ever since, namely a law that meant that we tightened the penalties for foreigners who commit the kind of crime covered by the law: corona fraud and corona-related crime. There are two areas. There is the area that we were extremely concerned about in the initial phase of the corona crisis, namely the thefts of equipment, of alcohol, of what was essential for people to be able to keep the infection away, and, in fact, at the beginning, also crucial for fewer people to die of corona. Then there is the second part, which is about financial fraud, about fraud. We are not all agreed on the first part. There are parties on the left who did not think it was just as bad to steal protective equipment that did not think it was just as bad to steal alcohol and that, in reality, the economy was more important. I think that both are important, and we are doing so in the new citizens, and we are doing so because the aid packages we have paid out should not, of course, be defrauded, but also because we were in a situation in the spring where access to alcohol was difficult. This may seem a little comical when you look back like that and maybe a little forgot what we were in: Do you have to be punished hard for stealing alcohol? However, the situation at the time was precisely that we were taken a little with our pants down and that there was an extreme lack of alcohol, of protective equipment, and that we therefore had a need to ensure it for those people who had jobs where it was necessary to use it, and for those who were sick and weak and could therefore die if there was insufficient protective equipment nearby. We had to protect them with extra legislation. We can see that today, when we talk about fraud, there have been a number of cases. The police currently have more than 100 cases on their table, and there is also one person who has already been convicted of fraud with these aid packages, and this shows that the bill was both relevant and timely. The fact that we do not support the whole proposal because there are foreigners who have been here for less than 10 years and who are at risk of going out if they are fraudulent of the billions that we have allocated to aid packages is extremely strange to me. If we really care about our welfare society, which some people call the welfare state, if we care about taxpayers' money and the means to go out to those most in need, then we should also ensure that foreigners who come here and who do not have the same respect for it are not allowed to stay in the country. It has obviously not been important for a number of the parties sitting in the Folketing today, and that may well surprise a party such as New Citizens. However, we are, of course, fully supportive of the draft law here and are pleased that it also seems to be working as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121533	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121541	On the occasion of corona, I sit in Rune Lund's seat so that Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and I do not sit too close to each other so that we can keep our distance. I should just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund if the expulsion rules are not so strict today that when you lift the sentence, it will end up with expulsion anyway. I understood the allusion in Mrs Pernille Vermund's speech to the Enhedslisten, and I would just like to reply to that. It is, of course, a question of the fact that today, in the stair model we have, the expulsion rules are so tight in advance that we did not actually imagine that they could be tightened further.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121624	In fact, when we were presented with the first legislative proposal and had the first reading, we could see that there were foreigners who did not want to go out because they had not tightened the law on foreigners, and that was one of the things we were discussing and that was also part of the fact that Enhedslisten chose not to support this bill. So the fact was that the Aliens Act was not adapted so that the foreigners who commit this kind of crime would be expelled if they had been here for more than five years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121703	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121705	But then the fact is that this is then turned into a question of foreign policy. Regardless of how disagreeable Mrs Pernille Vermund and I are on both foreign policy and economic policy and everything else, we can agree that it is not the foreigners' fault that corona exists. I think that when you put foreign policy into this bill, you're going to turn it into a question of something that it's not about at all, because what it's about here is the level of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121737	Now it is the case with the legislation in Denmark that it is about many different aspects. This is about justice policy. It is about economic policy, because it is also aid packages. It's about tax policy because some people have to finance this. Of course, it is also about health. That's the elementary thing and the reason we're even discussing this. And, of course, a great deal of legal policy is about foreigners, because we know that foreigners in Denmark are greatly over-represented in crime statistics, and if we can overcome this, we can also overcome some of the crime that is being committed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121814	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, nor are there any more rapporteurs to speak, so we are now finished with the rapporteur's series and the Minister for Justice is given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211121825	Thank you for your broad support. Those to whom I have most comments are the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party, whose members have then left the Chamber. It's not gonna stop the rest of you from enjoying what I'm going to say to them. To put it mildly, it seems a little strange when the Radical Left attacks the law for cases where it has not been applied or has been restricted. No, it has not been used very many times in connection with the theft of hand alcohol, and it may then be because there is not so much alcohol stolen, or it may be because hand alcohol is no longer a limited resource and therefore falls outside the scope of the law. And by pointing that out, you try to look away from the areas where the law has worked. Penalty for cheating with aid packages has been tightened up, which is based on four times as high as usual. Thirty convictions have fallen. We have 175 reviews... it may be that more have been added since we got this figure, but we have 175 fraud reports at least for 56 million. kr. in connection with our aid packages. Isn't it a little strange to say that the law has no value? I guess that illustrates the value of the law. We've blocked 39 websites. These are people who have wanted to use the corona crisis to defraud and typically phishe via websites, and there the police have been inside and stopped these websites and blocked that it has taken place. The law has worked. As far as foreigners are concerned, it has been said that there are 11 cases, and that is also true, but there is one case where someone has been expelled for having broken the Corona rules alone. In the specific case, as I remember, if you are going to Denmark, you have to have a worthy purpose, and you had written a paper to the effect that the person who should receive the paper should come up and work here in a job that apparently did not exist, which is a violation of the rules of who we can get into our country in a situation where we have a pandemic around our ears. I would also like to say on the subject of foreigners that I thought it was a real change. I just want to remind you of the process. For it was the case that there was in fact a broad understanding among the parties in the Folketing, including the Enhedslisten, after which New Citizens, as has been said, raised the issue of foreigners, and a broad part of the Folketing thought it was sensible to include it. I then appealed that we could split up the bill so that the Enhedslisten could vote for the part of the bill that they wanted to vote for, and thus the part that was about the aggravated penalties, the blocked websites, etc. etc. But there was so little collegiality in the Folketing that one would not accept the division, and therefore Enhedslisten ended up in this case on the wrong side of the fence. That's the truth about that element. That's gotta be it. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122159	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122202	Thank you, Minister, for your speech, and thank you, not least, for your greeting at the beginning of your speech. I can assure you that I heard all the Minister's words in the speech so thank you for that. What I would like to ask is whether the Minister can confirm that the parts relating to crime in relation to protective equipment have not been able to be used in the past many months because of the fact that there is no shortage of resources in the way the law states it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122232	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Kristian Hegaard heard what I said. And it was not to be ashamed of anyone that I pointed out that Mr. Kristian Hegaard had another errand that was certainly more important than hearing my speech. As the construction of the law is, it only hits crime that has a background in or a connection with the corona epidemic in Denmark. And if a shield is no longer a scarce resource, that is, if there is enough hand alcohol or enough mouthbands, then we will move on to the area where it has no background or connection with the corona epidemic in Denmark, if you steal hand alcohol. Therefore, it is no longer as reprehensible as it would be if there were scarce resources that we needed to protect the weakest in our society as we needed to protect each other and that we needed to distribute in a certain way. Therefore, the law, it can be said, has the self-repealing, positive and built-in mechanism that, if it is crime that has no background or context with covid, it does not apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122339	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122341	Thank you to the Minister for confirming that large parts of the law have not been applicable in the past many months, because these protective equipment no longer constitute a scarce resource. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he can confirm that it was relatively short after this law was adopted at all that the protective equipment referred to in the law no longer constituted a scarce resource, so it was quite short time at all, it was applicable in this way in relation to double penalties for crime in relation to protective equipment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122414	Yeah, that's absolutely right. But that picture also includes the fact that we were in a situation where we did not really know what the world would look like. We could see there was a problem there. Fortunately, we were able to formulate the law so that it would also hit those cases where, for example, there were cases where the law was adopted. gets cheated with help packages, or those cases where there is a need to block websites. And it is strange to say: because the law has not been applied to one case, the Radical Left will not recognise the good effect the law has had on all sorts of other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122445	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122449	Thank you. Now I just managed the technique down here so that I could press right in, but at the same time keep proper distance. I just want to say thank you to the Minister for Justice for clarifying what happened in the spring, when we were in this very serious situation, which we may actually be looking at, when you look at the number of infections and the pressure of infection, are heading back into. So I would just like to say thank you to the Minister for Justice for clarifying the situation and repeating once again, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we support the part that is about cheating with aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122524	A lot of things can be said for this. Often, when you're praised by Enhedslisten, it's kind of like being hung by a pickpocket. But thank you for the rose in any case!
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122540	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, we can thank the Minister for Justice and also say that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122559	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122612	Thank you, President. The purpose of the bill is to roll back the pepper spray scheme, as it is known today, so that, after the entry into force of the law, persons will not be able to acquire, possess or wear pepper sprays as a rule. Since 1 January 2019, it has been legal for persons over 18 years of age to acquire and possess pepper spray in their own home. The purpose of making pepper spray legal was to strengthen the Danes' sense of security by being able to protect themselves with a pepper spray in the event of, for example, home robbery. However, the scheme has helped to increase the availability of pepper spray, and in the wrong hands a pepper spray does not create security, rather on the contrary. There has been a sharp increase in the number of cases where pepper spray is illegally held and in cases of illegal imports of pepper spray. From 2018 to 2019 there has been almost a doubling in the number of felling decisions involving pepper spray, and unfortunately only a few cases have been identified where pepper spray is used in situations that can be immediately characterised as self-defense. The pepper spray scheme has therefore worked almost counterproductively to ensure the Danes' sense of security, and we therefore believe that it is quite sensible to roll the scheme back. There will also be certain exceptions in the future. Victims of stalking or honor-related crimes will have extended opportunities to possess and wear pepper spray in public spaces. At the same time, it will be possible for Swedish customs officials to have a pepper spray as part of their service equipment when they carry out customs controls on the stretch across the Sound. In concrete terms, it is proposed to ensure that the Minister of Justice is authorised to lay down detailed rules that the provisions of the Arms Act on wearing, loading and carrying pepper sprays and impact weapons do not apply to foreign civil state authorities. Finally, the bill will make minor amendments to the Arms Act in order to bring Danish law into line with a new regulation on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, etc., applicable from 1 February 2021. The Regulation restricts access by ordinary citizens to substances which can be used to manufacture explosives. The bill here basically strengthens the Danes' security, and therefore the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122822	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122826	Thank you. As the draft law says, and as the rapporteur also says in his rapporteur's speech, the cases that have taken place have been about the illegal possession of pepper spray, and they have been about the illegal introduction of pepper spray. On the other hand, the upside of the law that we have seen has been that there are actually some incidents where pepper spray has prevented crime. Does the Social Democratic Party believe that the illegal introduction or possession of pepper spray is worse than the positive effect that is counteracting an attack or a criminal act committed against one? Does the Social Democratic Party think it's worse? Because that's what they say with the bill here. Because someone has illegally possessed or introduced pepper spray, which does not cause any injury at all, it is that you can prevent injuries and have prevented injuries, something that we must now stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211122934	I would agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that, if that were the only problem, it is true that it would not be as serious as what I think is the bigger problem in this matter. It is, of course, that last year there were in the vicinity of plus/minus 100 cases of illegal use of pepper spray. That's the problem. There are other problems too, but that is the big problem. That's when it's used illegally. At the same time, I also believe that, when the police are not aware of a single example of pepper spray being used in defence of home-robbing, it is one of the things I remember as the argument at the time that you should have the opportunity to have pepper spray. I do not really think that the law has worked as intended, and I think that the fact that there have been so many examples of illegal use is a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123035	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123036	It is possible that pepper spray is not used in home robbery. But it is stated in the observations of the law that there have been situations where it has been used against perpetrators in a robbery, and it has been used as self-defense so that people who have been attacked have resorted to pepper spray and thus have been able to avoid being attacked; that people who have been robbed have certainly not used pepper spray at home and have therefore prevented the robbery. Doesn't that matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123112	I shall not be able to deny that there has been a single example of how it has been used completely excellently and has been a huge success. But that does not change the fact that the general picture has been that in most cases, where pepper spray has been involved in a conflict, it has been used illegally. I also think it has to be borne in mind that if you go down the path that you set down when you adopt this law, we risk an escalation. When perpetrators come to a robbery, for example. or a home robbery, have an expectation that people have pepper spray at home, then maybe they have a gun with them. After all, we would like to get away from escalating it, preferably away from people carrying bigger and bigger weapons when they come to commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123156	I'm sure the government always has the best intentions. But I must admit that in this matter I simply do not understand the government. It is said that we must have more security in society, we must have more law and order. Various things are being negotiated in the Folketing, which is concerned with this, and then you weaken the ability of citizens to have security in their own homes, because you remove the possibility of having pepper spray. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund help me and the Folketing and the public and citizens understand the government's thinking? Because here we have a harmless, harmless remedy that, as a citizen, you'd better use than heavier things in your home if a home robber or a break-in occurs while you're at home. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund not just give some sort of argument here and then, incidentally, tell the Danish Parliament what the government is putting in place if you want to remove pepper spray from the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123256	First of all, I can confirm this with the intentions. They're definitely good. As far as security is concerned, I do not believe that this contributes to greater security, and I think this is actually confirmed by the fact that there have been no examples of pepper spray being used as self-defense against home robberies, for example. On the contrary, I believe that there is a real risk that in time we will see an escalation where, as a criminal, you have an expectation that people in their homes have pepper sprays, and then you have knives or guns. If you don't expect it as a criminal, you might show up with your bare hands. There is also the risk that the pepper spray will be removed and used against Mr. or Mrs. Denmark, who has bought such a pepper spray, but perhaps has not been trained in how to use it so use it against the victim, so it is actually the perpetrator who uses it instead. Now I can see that my time is running out, but I think again it is about the proportions here. We can see that there are a large number of examples of pepper sprays being used illegally • hardly any examples of their use, as originally intended. Then I think it is a sign that we have to do something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123402	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123403	I mean, sir. Rasmus Stoklund is taking this matter completely wrong, because we know from what we hear every day from the media that criminals have access to all kinds of weapons. They have access to knives, they have access to guns shot in connection with gang fights, and innocent citizens get caught in some of these fights. And then Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that it is a huge problem that there may be some of these pepper sprays and we can't even get proof of that which has been used incorrectly. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund not well see that the law-abiding section of the population who need something safe to defend themselves with is hurt here? Because they want to have the opportunity to do so, we can look at the very large purchases of pepper spray that have taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123447	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123449	No, I actually think that if you look at other countries that have a rather more liberal arms law, like for example. The United States, which I have almost nothing but good to say about the fact that there is another ravaged type of crime due to the fact that, instead of asking first, many of the perpetrators assume that there is a risk that there may be a powerful weapon present in the home where they, for example, are present. I'm gonna make a break-in. We do not have that situation in Denmark, which is why we do not have the same risk of people being subjected to an attack in their homes being met with powerful weapons from the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123527	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123538	The proposal that we are now debating can in fact be divided into two parts. One part is about a roll-back of the pepper spray scheme from 2018, and the other part is about Denmark's implementation of some EU rules and then Swedish customs officials' ability to carry pepper spray at the border. Let me make it clear that we in the Left, of course, want to help implement these EU rules, just as we are very willing to help Swedish customs officers control their borders. We also want all the opportunities to control the Danish border and therefore understand the desire of our Swedish neighbours. But it is quite wrong for the government to confuse the two cases, so for example. the right of elderly people to have a pepper spray at home in the drawer in order to defend themselves in the event of a home robbery being rolled back, and then the question of the implementation of some EU rules. These two things aren't connected. In other words, one might be in favour of people having the right to have a pepper spray at home and defend themselves if there is a home robber, while at the same time the Swedes should have the right to wear a pepper spray at the border if they are customs officials. That is why we very much hope that the Minister will be prepared to split up the bill so that we can vote separately on the roll-back of the pepper spray scheme. For the pepper spray scheme is intended as an option and a right for Danes to acquire a pepper spray for self-defense. It creates security to know that you can defend yourself in your own home. The government's argument for rolling back the pepper spray scheme is that the increase we have seen in the number of cases of pepper spray is alarming and does not measure up to the gain in terms of increased security. But is that true? For according to the Ministry of Justice's report on the experience with the pepper spray scheme, there have been 1,600 cases of pepper spray in 2019. The National Police estimate that somewhere between 4% and 7%. of the cases concerned the illegal use of pepper spray for example. violence, threats and robbery. In addition, the Attorney General has stated that there have been relatively few cases where pepper spray has been used directly as a weapon. The vast majority of cases deal with illegal imports of pepper spray, where people inadvertently or perhaps they have known it has broken the law by buying a pepper spray abroad or over the internet. In the Left, we do not believe that this is an argument for depriving people of the right to have a pepper spray at home in the event that they have intruders who do not want them well. So neither home robbers nor gang members nor anyone who really wants to stop buying a pepper spray in, for example. Germany. The only thing you achieve is to leave Danes defenceless in their homes. If crime is to be eliminated, and we in the Left want to do so, we must be prepared to see whether the penalties for the illegal use of pepper spray can be tightened up, for example. Assaults and robberies and stuff like that. In addition, as I said, we very much hope that the government is prepared to divide up the bill, because we want to preserve the pepper spray scheme on the one hand, but we also want Swedish customs officials to have the right to use pepper spray or stand on the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123926	Thank you. I should like to make a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211123929	I think the rapporteur agrees that the Danish police are a very clever police force and that they know a lot about what is going on around here and have a great deal of insight into what happens if, for example, the citizens have some weapons at their disposal. When this bill was discussed in its introduction, in other words a few years ago, it was one of them. in particular the Police Union, which warned against the fact that arming citizens, arming citizens could have consequences, as this study reveals. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur's party what ideas it gives that, among many actors, the Police Union is particularly alerting and has warned against arming citizens with pepper spray at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124015	It is true that there have been criticisms from several quarters, but I have to say that for us it is actually extremely important that for example. An older lady can have a pepper spray at home if she feels more comfortable about it. Honestly, an elderly lady who gets intruders, a home robber, must have the opportunity to defend herself, and you have that with a pepper spray. So for us, security for our citizens is at the most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124044	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124046	I also recognise a hundred percent that you can strengthen the sense of security by having a pepper spray. But I would like to ask the rapporteur something. If you're an older woman in this situation, as Mrs Inger Løjberg described before, then if there's a burglar coming in, you can stop the burglar and say, "Stop a minute, I'm going to the bathroom and get a pepper spray, and you can continue your business." Can it be achieved, or can the rapporteur see that there is another side to the matter which might create a little false security in such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124122	Well, it must be up to the person who acquires a pepper spray alone to decide whether this is something that increases security or not. I don't think so, sir. Kristian Hegaard can decide on a Friday afternoon in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124134	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124152	Where we in the Folketing today have been relatively perhaps astonishingly in agreement with the government in a few legislative proposals, then the consensus stops because the government is abolishing a functioning regime which has been made under the previous government. The aim of the scheme is to ensure greater security for citizens. It is an arrangement that was basically introduced to create more security, and the security of the citizens is very close to the Danish People's Party. That is why we have been pleased with the scheme that has allowed for no demand, but the possibility for citizens who would like to protect themselves in their own homes to be able to defend themselves with a pepper spray. I am quoting from the bill adopted in the year 2018-19, which is called L 83, which is the basis for this debate, and that was the bill from the previous government. That is where pepper spray is allowed as a legal thing for the Danes. There the bill says: Danish security is one of the highest priorities of the government. This is especially true of the individual Dane's safety in his own home. A home should be a safe place where citizens decide for themselves who they let in. This is precisely why domestic assaults, home robberies and burglary constitute a particular violation of the security and integrity of the victims. The government therefore wants to further strengthen efforts to make citizens feel safe in their own homes. So the introduction of the pepper spray scheme was to ensure more security for the Danes. That is then the security that the government now wants to remove again. It's simply sad. Well, it's a sad day, especially when we have a Minister of Justice and a government that says it's important to secure. It is actually the most important task for the Minister of Justice to ensure that the Danes feel safe. That's not what you do here. That's not what you make sure of here. For this draft law from the Minister for Justice is, after all, the abolition of the pepper spray scheme, which gives us more insecurity for the Danes who have chosen to acquire such a pepper spray. In the Ministry of Justice's report on the experience of the pepper spray scheme from 1 October 2020, and this is, of course, the report on which the draft law from the current government is based, one is curiously not inside to investigate whether the Danes who have acquired a pepper spray have thereby felt that it has given them security or perhaps the opposite. Instead, the government has taken the view that the scheme has resulted in twice as many decision-making decisions as before the pepper spray scheme was introduced, i.e. with a conclusion, I think, that it would be better to speed up the abolition of this system. In 2018, before the pepper spray was legal in Denmark, the Minister stated that there were 893 felling decisions in relation to pepper spray. In 2019, i.e. the year when the pepper spray became legal in Denmark, until 9 November, as the Minister stated in a reply, there were 1,660 decision-making decisions in relation to pepper spray. One might say that doubling sounds so violent and one could easily conclude from this that a pepper spray system is a failure. And that's what the Minister of Justice has done. But there are always a lot of men's when there is such information to the Danish Parliament • a reply from the minister says clearly that for the vast majority of these violations it is based on illegal imports, not in what has been introduced with the legal basis in Denmark. It is therefore a violation by people who have not understood that if they are to acquire a pepper spray, they must be acquired through a Danish business and not ordered on the web or bought south of the border, which they have been able to do for a long time south of the border in Germany. Of course, we have asked how much of this figure covers illegal imports, and it can be said that it is completely in the dark. The Minister cannot specify this precisely because reference is made to the way in which these infringements are recorded. We can then ask a lot about this in committee because it has been quite difficult to get the government to tell us about these registrations. So at least a call from the Danish People's Party to record these crime practices with pepper spray with a special code of crime, so that we can at least in the future follow up on whether the government is telling the truth or whether the government is not telling the truth. However, it is practical for the Minister of Justice to use all of this as an argument for abolishing a pepper spray scheme, and one apparently has a majority in the Danish Parliament, because we have some very frightened parties in relation to pepper spray SF, Enhedslisten and the other red parties. But I just have to say, I'm wondering. I am surprised that the government is removing something that provides security for citizens, and we will protest against it, and we will continue to do so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124706	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124709	Thank you. I would like to ask you about a Facebook update from the profile of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen, who certainly did not sit in the Folketing now. It's October 28th, six weeks ago. He writes that research shows that crime falls when law-abiding citizens have to arm themselves and that a gun is safer than pepper spray. I just want to know if it reflects the policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124739	Now I'm not here in Parliament to discuss old facebook updates. I am in the Folketing to challenge the Minister in relation to the problem I see here, namely that the government promises more security, because the Minister does. And then you put forward a bill here in the Folketing that gives more insecurity. It can't really be different. We have some citizens who have been given the opportunity to have a pepper spray, and every time we debate it and every time the media writes about it, there are plenty of citizens who say: we are going to have a pepper spray. Then you will be aware that the system and the opportunity are there. Now it is said to the citizens that they can no longer have a pepper spray and that, moreover, a pepper spray must not be legally purchased in Denmark. Let me remind you, and perhaps it is also a lesson for Kristian Hegaard and the Radical Left, that pepper spray has been available in Germany for many years. In a number of European countries this is allowed. In a number of other European countries, we must apply for permission to do so, and we must be approved for it. But it is again on legal grounds. That is why I am surprised that there is also resistance in the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124846	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124848	What I asked was that another member of the Danish People's Party says that it is safer to have a gun at home than to have pepper spray. That is why I think it is quite crazy if the rapporteur does not wish to deny that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party. Because that's what I asked you before. So I would like to ask: can the rapporteur not at all deny that it is safer to have a gun in the home than to have a pepper spray? For that is certainly an interesting political point of view from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124918	The Danish People's Party is not in favour of having guns at home, but we are in favour of having a pepper spray. Because a pepper spray is completely safe. It blinds a person for a short time, and then you can neutralize him instead of standing with a kitchen knife, a roll of cake, or whatever you do, because it causes much more damage. I find that there are older people in Denmark who are desperate to have more security in their own homes, and they are losing it now because of the government and Mr. Kristian Hegaard. It's really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124949	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211124952	I just want to ask a question about whether the Danish People's Party does not recognise that it actually creates insecurity when we can see 80-100 cases from 9 police circles, and this is probably more cases than them, because not all police circles are involved. But 80-110 cases where people are attacked, where it is used for violence and where it is used for robbery, shoplifting and all sorts of other things. Does it not create greater insecurity or insecurity among the people who are exposed to this? We can see that it is hardly used for self-defense, but it is actually used to assault victims. How can the Danish People's Party feel that this helps to create security?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125040	After all, Mrs Karina Lorentzen is a law politician in here who knows about the cases we see in the crime picture. Unfortunately, criminals have extensive access to weapons. It seems to be one of the easiest things in the world to get a gun, a knife or a pepper spray if that's what you want. Because you've always been able to buy them south of the border. What is the problem here, I think, also for the SF, is that we are helping to abolish a peaceful regime which can help law-abiding citizens, in other words a harmless regime, in order that criminals can obtain pepper sprays before and now, but can also obtain knives, bombs and guns. So you could say that, when the criminals have access to so many weapons, after all, it was better that a pepper spray is used than that a gun or a knife is used. Does the SF agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125138	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125139	I did not hear a clear answer to whether the Danish People's Party recognises that the bill that the Danish People's Party helped to put into the world is actually something that means that the victims of crime are robbed and subjected to violence with a pepper spray. I do not know whether it is because the Danish People's Party thinks it is okay and that it is a price worth paying. And it is true that criminals will buy pepper spray, but when the Danish People's Party makes it easier for them, we must also expect that more of them will actually buy one, and I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125215-2	I said before that I think it is bad, awkward and worrying that criminals have access to weapons in our society. They have access to a lot of weapons. They have access to very dangerous weapons such as bombs, knives, clubs and guns, and if I had to choose between the weapons they use to attack other people with, I'd rather it was with a pepper spray than with anything else. If we read the report that comes from the Minister for Justice, we cannot say for sure what attacks are being made with legal persons and what is happening with illegal weapons, and that is what is crucial here. And then it is also crucial that we give the citizens the security they need in their own homes, and that gives the pepper spray an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125300	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125321	Thank you for the floor. It's a shame to hear others say what I said. And I think that it will be particularly painful for many in here to hear a radical stand and say: what did I say? So I'm going to refrain from that, because it's often connected to a certain gloat to say, what did I say or to make a little fun of it. But this case is too serious to gloat or to say what we said, that is, we who warned against legalising pepper spray as a weapon in the home, just as the police and other experts warned against it. Because, unfortunately, after pepper spray has become legal, we have seen a marked increase in the number of cases where pepper spray has been used as a weapon. Unfortunately, this is not a coincidence, on the contrary. It shows that when you allow a weapon, the criminals will use it as well. The easier it is for sensible people who can manage to get a pepper spray, the easier it is for the criminals too. And this shows that we basically do not get any more security by allowing more weapons at home. When the investigation shows that it has been used as a weapon of attack rather than a weapon of defense, we must have the pepper spray law rolled back, because it is a false security, although I recognise that it can strengthen the sense of security. An elderly woman may have the pepper spray at home, but unfortunately a stealing often surprises you. It is not the case that a burglar just knocks on the door and asks: is it okay that I just come and make a break-in? In other words, the thief is not just waiting for the pepper spray to be found from the drawer or bathroom or where you might have it hidden. Instead of strengthening real security, that is, security in terms of the number of crimes. That is why we are a little sceptical about the fact that some people still have to be able to carry pepper sprays in public spaces. I have a great deal of sympathy for this, but I also note that it is clear from the consultations that several of the organisations, for example. working with stalking, even saying that possession of a pepper spray can be conflict stairs. But, of course, we are voting in favour of the bill, as the field of arms carriers is getting significantly smaller. We must roll back the pepper spray scheme and the increasing number of crimes it has caused and instead introduce common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125640	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so thank you to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Kristian Hegaard. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211125703	Thank you for the floor. In the SF we were against it, since a majority of the people at the time allowed pepper sprays in defence into the Danish homes. The background at that time was a hearing answer or indeed several hearing responses from the Crime Prevention Council, the Danish Business and Danish Women's Society, which pointed out that there was a risk that pepper spray would be used as a weapon instead of for self-defence, and that it could escalate conflicts and even provide false security. Now we have here a legislative proposal which, in its main part, will roll back the legislation. Of course, we think that is common sense, because when we arm the people with pepper spray, we also arm the criminals. And we can see from the evaluation that pepper spray has also been used largely by criminals for attacking victims and largely not for the defence of victims. Only in nine cases has pepper spray been used for self-defense. It has been in neighboring disputes, but also against attempted robbery, in fighting the drug scene and in threatening situations in couple-related cases. On the other hand, we have nine police circles that have reported that they have somewhere between 80 and 110 cases where criminals have used pepper sprays against victims, but it is only a sample of the cases that have been, because not all police circles are included in the inventory. But they count pretty rough cases like violence, qualified violence, threats, robbery and shoplifting. Then there are also police circles which report a significant increase in the elimination of illegal pepper sprays, which are also used in violation of the law. Unfortunately, this confirmed our fears in the SF: Pepper spray gives more insecurity than security, so it is very good in line with why the police warned about this and also the women's organisations, the Danish Occupation and indeed also the SF. They also said that they could be used as weapons of attack instead of self-defence, and that has also happened. So it makes sense to roll back the law. The reason at the time was that one should be able to protect oneself from home invasion. This was one of the very great arguments advanced in the debate. Last year Denmark's Radio made an inventory showing that there had been 113 home robberies during the period, and none of them had used pepper sprays according to DR. Instead, they could tell of an example where a 57-year-old who had gold jewelry for sale on Facebook was just attacked with a pepper spray in his own living room, and there was also a man on Funen who was attacked with pepper spray also in his own home. There is also a risk that if you have a pepper spray, it creates false security for the victims, because you have to be quite precise when using it. That is also why police and criminal services train in how to use it. And you run the risk of stepping up the risk of either being subjected to violence or being overpowered when you cannot use it properly. Finally, there is also the risk if a home robber knows, for example, that you can hold a pepper spray, that they step up and bring stronger weapons with them. And that could lead to an even more dangerous situation. The Minister will then leave behind is a very narrow window for the police to continue to grant permission to persons such as: is exposed to a particular risk of persecution, stalking or honour-related conflicts, and that makes much better sense than the whole population carrying it around. And most importantly, it also narrows the access of criminals to it, and I think that is important. So we can actually live with that. Then there will probably be some who say: Should you not be allowed to have the security of having it in your own home? At least I think you should be allowed to have security, but if you want to argue that it should be at home, you might as well argue that it should be there in the nightlife or in any other place where insecurity can arise. After all, there has never been a law that has allowed that. So all in all, we think this is a good day for security in Denmark, and in relation to the other elements of the bill on Swedish customs officers etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130154	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130159	Thank you. I simply do not understand why SF, which is supposed to be a party for ordinary Danes, will abolish something that provides more security for ordinary Danes in their own homes. I simply do not understand the argument for this. And I would like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt whether Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has seen the answers we have received to how other countries feel about pepper spray. I can count 12 other European countries where pepper spray is allowed. And there has been a question in the Folketing as to whether this has given rise to any problems. This has not caused any problems. I would also like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt what the SF says about the fact that in recent years illegal knives have been tripled in Denmark. Does this mean that we should then go in and take some specific initiatives on the part of the Danish Parliament? Yeah, maybe it does. But the fact that there are some changes in the number of knives, in the number of pepper sprays, or whatever it is, doesn't necessarily mean that the criminals use the knives or use the pepper spray. Actually, that's just what I want to do. There may be some changes in these things without it having to mean that it is a huge problem. So, SF, come out with what it is you want to replace the pepper spray with for the benefit of the ordinary Dane's safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130321	Well, we don't plan to replace the pepper spray with anything else. In fact, we would like to get rid of it, because we can see that there is a problematic increase in the situations where it is used. And it's even used against people themselves and for crime. We do not think it is a price that is worth paying, and there we simply disagree with the Danish People's Party. We think that is fair enough. Compared to the knives, I think there is a big difference, namely that pepper spray does not have to have, but knives we cannot really avoid having. We have them in our home. We use them for hunting, we use them for fishing. We cannot really prevent them from sometimes getting into some criminal environments and being used for things we do not like. We would like to be involved in initiatives to this end. We have, in fact, already been involved in some initiatives. But the pepper spray in the Danish homes can be avoided.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130417	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130418	But I simply cannot understand why SF will not give anything else instead. What if we recognise that there are older people who are insecure in their own homes. At least I know some people who are insecure if there was to be a home robbery or a break-in in their own home; I know a lot of people. That's why you want to protect yourself, and that's why you want to guard yourself with alarms and all sorts of other things. If we now recognise that this is the case, the pepper spray is removed here as an opportunity for the citizen and the older couple at home. It removes SF. So I ask, what do you put in place? Do you make sure that the police can come within a minute? No, I don't think you do. For many places in Denmark, there is a very long wait before the police can be there if they can even come because of a lack of resources. So I actually lack an answer to what SF can offer the Danes when they remove something.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130511-2	In any case, I can offer the Danes something more real security. I hope so. Now we need to involve all the pepper sprays again, which are floating out in Danish homes. But at any rate I can offer something more security, because we may remove some of the possibility of being exposed to crime by pepper spray. That is where I strongly disagree with the Danish People's Party. I mean, you stick people in the eye by saying that if you have a pepper spray, you're safer. No, you're not necessarily, because it depends on how good you are at using it if a situation should arise. You need to spray your face very accurately to passiveise other people, and I can be very worried that older people in a tumult won't get to it or get it wrong, and then they'll at least be stuck down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130600	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211130610	Thank you. I guess I'm feeling a little the opposite of Mr. Kim. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. I think that the government has come to a halt today. I would like to start by saying that we in the Enhedslist support this bill. Once again, the Minister of Justice must be praised again for the second time today, even though he may find it a little clinging to get support from the Enhedslisten, which in itself is funny when you consider that it is because of the Enhedslisten that the Minister of Justice is the Minister of Justice. Already when we in the Danish Parliament adopted the pepper spray scheme in 2018, we in the Enhedslisten were very concerned about the way in which we also wrote in the report contribution at the time, in relation to the concern of trying to solve the problem of home robberies by allowing private people to buy pepper sprays. And that is why we are not particularly surprised that the Ministry of Justice's report confirms that picture; there are no cases where pepper spray is used as self-defense in connection with home robberies. The report also underlines another point. Because just as we and other parties in the Folketing feared, the partial legalisation of pepper spray has meant that there are more pepper sprays in circulation in criminal environments. And it is easy to stand here today and say what we said and be hindsight. But now that we have actually had a vision of legend, I really hope that it will make the parties who supported it here see that it does not make any sense to legalise pepper spray. In recent years, crime in Denmark has fallen, but those who commit crime have now been able to obtain a pepper spray more easily, and it has created insecurity among the country's merchants, at gas stations and in general for retail employees. In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that weapons belong to private individuals. And that is why I also agree with both the Danner, the Offering Counselling and the Danish Women's Society that we do not need a special scheme for certain groups to get a pepper spray anyway. The concern expressed by the government that they would like to take on the victims of stalking and negative social control is, in fact, resolved in a rather misunderstood way here. A pepper spray often acts as a catalyst for problems and may end up being used against the victim, who is trying to defend himself. And that can also happen in these situations... at least that's what we fear in the Enhedslisten. Instead, we must ensure that victims of stalking and victims of negative social control are given the help they need. And we are actually ensuring this in the Finance Act that the government, Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left and the Alternative have just concluded, where we are putting a lot of money off to stop negative social control, and I think that is actually going to work better than these people getting access to a pepper spray. If, however, a majority decides that individual groups should have access to a pepper spray at home, then I think we should do as the Crime Prevention Council suggests, and evaluate it and return to the initiative in a few years' time. In the Enhedslisten we would like to see as few weapons in circulation as possible. And, of course, especially when the measure has a bad or a small effect, and at worst a negative effect, as is the case with pepper spray, we believe that it should be taken up again, just as we have done here. We can fully support this bill and hope that in future we will be able to discuss how we in Denmark will have even stricter arms legislation than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131003	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131008	Thank you. I just need to be absolutely sure if I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that an elderly couple who are insecure in their own homes and need some security in the form of a pepper spray should be very fond of Enhedslisten, because now you get some money set aside to help some people who are under social control, so now you can be much more comfortable in your own home. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131033	It is quite true that I certainly think that an older couple should be very fond of Enhedslisten, because we have ensured in the Finance Act that they, for example. Get some more home help. I think that's only a good thing. In terms of their security, I think that one of the things that is really important for us to look at, which we have also tried to convince the government, is that you will have better opportunities to secure your home. Unfortunately, we have come across some barriers over in the Ministry of Transport and Housing, and there I hope that Dansk Folkeparti can help with us to remove some of the barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131107	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131108	It's just a bit like Enhedslisten is living a bit in an alternative world, i.e. a Enhedslisten world where Enhedslisten talks about something with social control and that we have to do something there, and that we have to make it a little easier to fortify our own home by removing some bureaucracy, and then the older couple will be completely safe in their own home. I just have to say that I don't see the logic at all. I don't even see that that one person should have anything to do with each other. I think that the things that Enhedslisten is doing here are excellent, it is not at all that, but I just do not see that it helps the older couple, who are insecure about a situation where they may be subjected to home robbery or break-in and where there is a need for them to have something completely harmless to defend themselves with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131157	I often feel the same way that I think that Mr. Peter Skaarup lives in such a special Danish People's Party world, where there are some logics that the rest of us do not really understand. So that way we're probably living in our own world, sir. Peter Skaarup. The reason I mention negative social control is, of course, that it is in the draft law. The bill says that special groups will be given access to pepper spray, and we do not think that this should be done in the Enhedslisten. We believe that the problems of negative social control should be solved in a different way than with pepper spray. In relation to the older couple, I would like to return to what I said before, which is about being able to fortify his home better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131234	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131245	The pepper spray scheme is basically a good one. It ensures that the Danes can feel safe in their own homes. Pepper spray is not an attack weapon, it is actually a tool to defend yourself in case you are attacked in your own home. That is why I must also say that I am rather annoyed that the government wants to roll back the pepper spray scheme, which otherwise can help more Danes to feel safe in their own homes. It is the clear view of the Conservative People's Party that the certainty that you have a tool to help you defend yourself when deep criminals appear in your private home and can commit home robbery or other serious crimes helps to increase the security of a great many Danes. After all, we are talking about using only pepper spray for self-defense, of course. Crimes in people's private homes are deeply offensive and very serious. Pepper spray can also have a deterrent effect on the deep criminals who may have intentions to break into people's private homes. What we are left with right now is that the law-abiding citizens are not allowed to have pepper spray, whereas the criminals have the opportunity to continue to get it. Because the criminals will get it if they want it. It remains, therefore, that ordinary Danes now have even less chance of defending themselves. It creates insecurity, and it is a step in the wrong direction, because we must, of course, constantly strive to increase the security of the Danes, including in our own homes. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131442	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131450	First of all, we are pursuing a policy of aliens, which is imposing on our societies a ruthless culture and serious crime, as a consequence of the aliens who come from Muslim countries in particular. In order to mitigate this, there are a number of bourgeois parties who say that the Danes must of course have the opportunity to defend themselves in their own homes. Now we want to remove that opportunity to defend ourselves. We simply cannot be familiar with this. In New Citizens we do not see a pepper spray as an attack weapon any more than we see a hair polish as an attack weapon or whatever else you might be able to use if you want to defend yourself against people who are bigger and stronger, who intend to commit a crime and who can inflict some violent damage and, in fact, scars of soul for body for life. That is why we think this proposal is completely crazy in relation to the part that is about banning pepper sprays for use in our own homes. On the other hand, there are two other parts of the bill: one is about giving Swedish customs officials the right to carry service weapons, and another is about adjusting the rules that restrict citizens' access to explosives. Both of them, of course, we can support, but the part about pepper spray is for me to see completely insane. And this is particularly crazy in view of the developments that have been taking place over the past many decades and the great social damage that politicians have done to our society for years. With those words, we can back the Left's proposal to split this bill. We hope that the Minister will accept and do so, so that the last two parts, for which it seems that there is a majority, can be voted through by the large majority that may be. The part dealing with pepper spray may be allowed to be left-wing responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and since I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, it has become time to welcome the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211131727	Thank you for a good debate on an important proposal. In my reply, I would like to focus on both the practical and the fundamental considerations. First, however, I should like to mention some of the points that are slightly beside the content of the debate. The first is about the desire from the Left to split the bill, so it will be divided into a part dealing with pepper spray, and into a part dealing with EU rules as well as the possibility for Swedish customs officials to come to Denmark and carry out checks on pepper sprays and truncheons. I think that is a fair wish. When we bring together the proposals that we are doing here, we pack them up, not least for the sake of the Folketing and the legislative process, but when the opinions split as they do here, I think that is fair. So that is what we want to do first and foremost. So on another point, which is not entirely in the proposal. It is to Mrs Rosa Lund, the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, who thought that it was because of the Enhedslisten that I am the Minister of Justice. I guess that's taking your mouth a little bit drunk. We also have to give the voters some of the honour and the Prime Minister, and not least Her Majesty the Queen, and here it is not Pernille Skipper that we are talking about who really is she who appointed me. So over to the bill as it stands. The concrete evaluation shows, and it has also been said sometimes, that the number of decision-making decisions has increased quite significantly from 2018 to 2019. There's almost been a doubling. That is also true, as has been said by others. Mr. Peter Skaarup, that one has to see what the decisions are about. This has not been done precisely, also because it requires a great deal of effort, but there are estimated 80 to 110 cases of illegal use of pepper spray in connection with violence, threats, robbery and so on. Of course, it would be nice to see that if it is the number 2019, where the number increased a lot, what the figure was then in 2018. It's not done up. It could be nice to know. But what do police circles say about this in the evaluation? They say that there has been a marked increase in the purchase of pepper spray, that the pepper sprays have been widely used contrary to the purpose of the legislation and that they find a significant number of pepper sprays in police shops and especially in the drug community. So there's enough reason to assume that these pepper sprays have ended up too little with the victims and have too much ended up in the pockets of the criminals. That is really the problem, and that is why it does not provide security to equip people with pepper spray. Then it's true, as Mr. Peter Skaarup has also said that the law is made to provide security in his own home. He quoted a passage from the preparatory work to the original bill. However, if you want to quote from that part of the bill, and that is fair enough, you should also remember the second part of the comments in the bill, which the then government also presented, namely that it would entail a risk of escalating the level of violence, that you could risk that the threshold for when pepper spray would be used would be lower and that pepper spray could be used as an attack weapon. You can then look at how it has gone with giving the opportunity to have pepper spray at home because it provides security. If we look at what is real, there is one case in which it is used in the home. This is not even a case of home robbery, and we cannot say that it is a little technical because there was a prior agreement that those who came to the home should go to the home and therefore it smokes per person. definition to be a robbery and not a home robbery, but leave it at that. There is therefore one case in which it can be said that the pepper spray has been used within the framework of the law. All the other cases have been about marital or cohabitation-related conflicts, and the question is whether it is good in the marital and cohabitation-related conflicts to import the use of, for example, pepper spray. So one must probably stand by the facts and say that it has not provided any further security. It has been more a arming of the criminals than of the victims. So to the point of principle. In Denmark we have made such arrangements and that is actually said a little for New Citizens, because here I simply believe that we disagree in principle that the monopoly of violence must lie with the police and the defence. They're the ones who have the right to violence in this society. No one else can. That is why we are also saying that those who then need weapons must have a permit. If you want to hunt, you must meet the conditions and have a permit. What is really happening with this proposal is that we go back to the scheme that we say: If you need a pepper spray, you must have a permit and you must stand on a foundation of reasonableness to get that permission. So it's like a hunting weapon, or if you're gonna have a trophy weapon or a crossbow, or whatever. That's how we say that if you, for example... is at risk of being stalked or at risk of being exposed to honor-related crimes, you may get a pepper spray. When this is so important, it is because I do not believe that we will become a safe society by arming the citizens. I believe that we will be a safe society by ensuring that those who can have weapons and those who can use weapons are our police, and that is our defence and that they are the ones who look after us. Thank you for supporting the bill. As I said, I divide it up so that one can express one's opinion as perfectly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132425	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132435	Let us now say that the Minister is right in saying that we actually have some places where it gives more insecurity that you have access to pepper spray, let us say so. Then I also hope that the Minister will agree with me that there are other places where it actually provides security. It gives you a sense of security for the older couple, who may have heard something going on in the garden... it can just be a cat who makes some trouble some way... and then you go out and see what it is, and then you don't call the police if it happens. You go out and see what it is, but it may be that you bring your pepper spray, as it is today, because you have access to, the opportunity to have it on you. So is this what I am asking the Minister: does the Minister expect that, after the government abolishes the pepper spray, it will be possible to call the police if you are uncomfortable and that the police are very quick to move forward? Because it could be a substitute that the government would then give, in other words much, much shorter response times. Let me remind you that the response time, for example. On average, onion size is 16 minutes, and it covers the fact that it is for some it is much longer. Are we going down so much in response time and could the minister put it instead • that you can give it security to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132559	I really think this is a correct and objective way of looking at it, and I am glad that we can have the common recognition that there are some places where it gives more security both in reality and felt. In fact, I also agree that just at home, this scheme will provide something more felt security. What was my point about my speech, whether it is the one case where it has been used, etc., was that real security does not follow. Of course, you might ask: Is not the feeling of security also important? Yeah, I think it is. I just don't think we should go that way by arming the citizens, and that will, of course, lead towards what it is that should be able to provide security. I believe that some of what we will be able to agree on is that the number of officers has an impact on security, that the proximity of police action has an impact on security, that the proximity of preventive work is important. So I recognise that this is the way to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132709	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132710	It's just before we can get closer. Because I have the opinion, and the Danish People's Party believes that it felt security is the most important thing about this scheme. That is what we were talking about in the draft law at the time. It was of course it felt security in relation to home robberies for example. an older married couple. So that's why the feeling of security here is crucial, i.e. that you feel with yourself that okay, I'm a little safer now than I was before I had the opportunity to get the pepper spray. But now it is, after all, that the government comes and says that it felt the security that one recognizes must be less because one removes the pepper spray. So what does the government do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132756	That's what I was trying to say, so I just don't think that you have to separate it felt and the real security. Of course, security is also, and it is also when we talk about it in a crime context that it felt, but what we owe to delivering as a society is also real security. It felt security should not stand on such a fantasy of what it is like, so it felt security should be a reflection of real security, but real security should be provided as a society, and we should, among other things, provide that. provide with the police resources we provide. But I also believe that real security is increasing when we ensure that the monopoly of violence is with the police and the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132835	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132839	Thank you. The Minister is right in saying that there is a difference, not in recognising that the state has the monopoly in relation to violence in Denmark, but in understanding what a pepper spray is, where Social Democrats see a pepper spray as a weapon and we in New Citizens do not see it as a weapon, nor do we see a hair polish as a weapon, for example. My question is on something quite different. As an argument for banning the use of pepper spray in your own home, an argument is put forward that pepper spray has increasingly been used in connection with crimes after legalising pepper spray for use in your own home, and so I have to ask the Minister: is it the Minister's view that these crimes that have happened would not have happened if the use of pepper spray had not been legalised in your own home? Or does the Minister like me and New Citizens think that these crimes would probably have happened anyway, but perhaps with the use of other and perhaps even coarser weapons than a pepper spray?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211132954	First with weapons: we can of course have a long semantic discussion about what is a weapon and what is not a weapon. I should just like to say that the police report refers to this as the risk of its being used as weapons of attack and so on, and that is why I think it makes sense to categorize it as the cases where, if you are going to use it, it requires a permit which is being proposed here. So for the second part, it's always super hard to do that counter-current thing, that is, when you say that if it wasn't like that, what would have happened? I think that what we can stick to quite specifically as an indication is the number of decision-making decisions that are doubled in one year in relation to pepper spray. This certainly indicates, as we mentioned earlier, that there is a problem here, that there is a risk that those we arm are not the victims, but the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133051	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133052	The problem must, however, be that the crimes are being committed and that the crimes are being committed by means of a weapon which means that the victim cannot defend himself, and so, of course, the pepper spray can be a spray used on the occasion as a weapon, but the alternative could have been a knife, the alternative could have been a weapon, the alternative could have been a gun. So the minister thinks these crimes wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been pepper spray? Or is it the pepper spray itself that is worse than, for example, a knife, a baseball bat or a gun?
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133135	But if you pursue that logic, why should you not give permission for example? to have firearms so that you can defend yourself more effectively? In other words, it is very easy to end up in an argument that will lead to a change, and that is where I think we disagree... the belief that if we arm the people, we will have a safer society. I find it very difficult to find examples around the world where there are societies that are safer than the Danish, which have reached that path by a strong armament of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133208	The next brief remark is to Mrs Inger Løjberg, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133211	Thank you. I am not even going to ask a question, I just want to sign off on the Minister's intention to divide the bill into two. That is a very great help for us in the Left, in any case. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133223	Of course, there are limits to what I will do to help the Left, but reasonableness must also exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133232	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133245	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund from the Social Democratic Party as rapporteur, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133302	Thank you, President. The Ombudsman's institution is an important institution in our democracy, both for us as citizens and for us as politicians here in the Folketing. After all, the Ombudsman publishes his report once a year, and here is an overview of what the Ombudsman's institution has done in the past year. There are statistics, etc., and some selected themes are also being developed. I'm filling in today for our legal rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Bruus, but he has informed me that there has been an in-depth discussion of the report in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and on this basis I must inform you that the parties in the Folketing take note of the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133352	Thank you to the rapporteur and I can confirm that. So there are no brief comments to the rapporteur, nor do I note that several rapporteurs are asking for the floor, and that is why I consider the debate to be closed. Then I should like to ask whether any of the Members would like the proposal to be referred to committee. As this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second (last) reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201211133422	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 15 December 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
