ParlaMint-DK_20200602130018	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: The Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. 199 Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the temporary postponement of declaration and payment periods, etc. in the field of taxation relating to covid-19, the withholding tax law, the law on equations and various other laws. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 26 May 2020, it was decided that all IT-related tasks relating to the Family Court and the Children's Council should be transferred from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to the Minister for Finance. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 26 May 2020 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to senior data centres as well as contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations relating to the Family Court and the Children's Council shall be transferred, in accordance with the detailed agreement between the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and the Minister for Finance, from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to the Minister for Finance per year. 1 June 2020. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20200602130054	The item listed as No. 10 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602130255	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 75 by Marie Krarup (DF), Jep Bruus (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Nase Khader (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), and voting is possible. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Please, sit down. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. I don't need the clerks to see there's no one. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. Please, sit down. 3, specified manner). In favour 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 3 (NB and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 75 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602130835	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 73 by Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Nils Sjøberg (RV), Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. You can sit back down. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Please, sit down. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 87 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 10 (DF and NB), abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No V 73 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 74 of Morten Messerschmidt (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131243	No amendments have been tabled. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131300	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Then we can thank those who stand up. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131516	Thank you. For 25 years, in the Danish People's Party, we have fought against Islam getting a foothold in Denmark. This proposal from New Citizens, B 77, looks like it's helping to fight Islam. That is also the intention of the New Citizen. The problem is that it will lead to the opposite: It will strengthen the power of Islam in Denmark by letting Muslim congregations go under the radar of the authorities. It will be harder to control the cash flows that come in and out of the country, and the mosques will not be closed. So really, if adopted, B 77 will strengthen the power of Islam. Of course, we cannot support this. However, we agree with the intention that there should be less Islam in Denmark. That is why the Danish People's Party is voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131609	I have some doubts as to whether there is a brief comment, because I can see up here that Jesper Petersen has pressed in and I do not see Jesper Petersen, so I assume it is a mistake. Then we thank Mrs Krarup. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131626	Yes, since I have not been able to be at the first reading of this draft law because of some self-chosen isolation, I have nevertheless chosen to speak here today, although it may of course be a bit burdensome in terms of voting methods. But I simply think that the proposal is so terrible that it deserves a few words on the way. It is trying to say that there is an entire religious minority who must enjoy less rights than the rest of the population. I think this is wrong; it is against the general Danish value of freedom of religion, in other words where equal rules are made for the different religions. But we should not be surprised gradually when it comes from the side of the New Citizen. The party is currently campaigning against the rule of law, which is also a Danish value. Here you are making proposals against religious freedom, which is also a Danish value. It has to be said about New Citizens that, of course, the party is still a little new yet, but it has never been bourgeois. After all, the party is opposed to the traditional civil liberties in every case, including in relation to what is in this motion for a resolution. And it has to be said that we here in the Danish Parliament should be able to stand together and that, of course, everyone enjoys the same rights, no matter what religion they have. And it is shameful that in this way you want to go in and try to score some votes to pursue a large religious minority in Denmark. We have had freedom of religion for many years. This is something that we tend to stand together on; it is something that we actually think is important. But this is part of right-wing nationalism, which is unfortunately seen both in Denmark and in Europe, where there is an increasing tendency to take the rights from parts of the population and thus to create different levels of rights for different Danes. And there you can say that you can just stand by that, but in reality we should do it, we should shout in arms and talk about it every time it happens, because, as I said, it is an increasing trend everywhere, and unfortunately I do not think that it disappears by pretending that it does not happen. You can see from the readings that New Citizens' Day in addition to the Social Democratic Party, and congratulations on that is the only party that is right to move forward in the polls, and this is a sad matter, because it is of course about the citizens of this country who have to be treated worse simply because they are who they are. So, for the sake of civility, for the sake of liberal principles, for the sake of freedom, one must of course vote against this proposal and let it go into oblivion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131932	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, and then it's Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602131938	Thank you for the floor. I did not intend to use the honourable Members' time today to take the floor, but after receiving criticism from both DF and from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, then I think it is appropriate to explain that a proposal that is about removing the recognition of the Islamic religions is not contrary to our constitution and our freedom of religion. There are a large number of religions today that are not recognised, who do not enjoy the rights that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille talks about the right to marry husbands, the right to deduct taxes on subscriptions and quotas and a right to invite preachers here on special terms. When we have tabled this resolution, it is because we have been able to hear how politicians have been talking for years about the challenge we have in our society, where preachers come here and preach hatred, preach oppression of Jews, preach ideas in our mosques and, in particular, in some of the most radicalised mosques. It has been criticised here on the one hand and, on the other hand, it has been maintained that these religions should have and enjoy the special privileges that we give to the religions that recognised. It's a complete mess. It is also madness when we hear a broad majority in the Folketing quite over to the SF criticize that these imams force women into marriages and they force women to stay in marriages that women themselves do not want, yet we support them financially and we support them with special rights. We simply cannot be familiar with this. When it is we in here who have the power to legislate; when it is we who have the power to deprive the special rights, and so it is special rights that one has when one is a recognized religion; when it is we who have that right, it is also we who have the duty to enforce it. One cannot with one tongue, I was going to say, criticize and speak dunders against imams preaching their religion, and then with the other tongue say that they must still have these rights. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution, which is why it is of course a pity that a party such as the DF is opposed and that it is felt that supporting Islamic religions with these special rights should make it easier to get rid of Islam in our society. It just doesn't make any sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132235	Mrs Pernille Vermund, it is the case that Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has asked for a brief comment, and at the moment we also need to use the platform for short remarks, so we just need to figure out some logistics in terms of getting back and forth. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, please. It's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132249	Mrs Pernille Vermund should at least be pleased that there is not a particular rule for parties preaching hatred in relation to the privileges they can have, otherwise different privileges could be created for different parties represented here when they continually cast out hatred against a minority population in this country. That is why I would just like to ask: how can there be freedom of religion if one of the largest religious minorities is said to be able, under no circumstances whatsoever, to approve their religions in Denmark on an equal footing with other religions? That does not make sense; it is just something that Mrs Pernille Vermund says. But Mrs Pernille Vermund is de facto against freedom of religion, and I think that should be admitted here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132340	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132347	A prerequisite for being able to enjoy recognition must, of course, be to respect religious freedom as a starting point. And when we are dealing with a religion, if apostates are threatened with violence or, for some, with death, that religion does not respect religious freedom. This must mean that in a society such as ours, where freedom of religion is an important prerequisite for our freedom, for our values, for our way of living together, we cannot enjoy special recognition, which is politically dictated. In other words, giving special privileges to a religion if apostates come into a real, really bad situation and, for some, in a situation so bad that they do not dare, should make any liberal-thinking politician say: something is wrong here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132447	Thank you. Then there's 30 seconds left for Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132455	After all, freedom is not freedom, if there are others who have to judge what it is freedom to believe and if it is not freedom to believe in a religion that many hundreds of thousands of people in this country believe in, then there is no question of freedom. Mrs Pernille Vermund cannot talk her way out of that. And we have to note, as I did in the past, that New Citizens are not a party in favour of fundamental civil liberties, yet they receive public support and have the privilege of giving it to everyone, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132529	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132534	That's bullshit. Well, I just have to say, that was the worst nonsense. There are plenty of religions in Denmark that do not receive the privileges of the recognised religions, and they do not, because they are not judged to meet the criteria that we set for the religions to be recognised. It is a political decision, what criteria are laid down over the communities of faith, and New Citizens believe that it is quite natural that a prerequisite for one's being recognised as a religion is, first and foremost, respect for freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132620	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132630	Of course, the Danish People's Party does not want to grant special privileges to Islam, and that is not what is at issue here either. What we are talking about is that we have legislation where we are able to regulate the individual religions, and that is extremely important. If they are not under this hat that this legislation constitutes, then we have no way of controlling them, and they will still exist. There will still be mosques. There will still be marriages. They will not be recognized, but they will certainly exist. So merely depriving recognition of it will be counterproductive. We will lose control of the Muslim religions. That is why it is a bad proposal, but we spoke in favour of the intention at first reading, and we will still do so, but where we think it will be constructive is if we try instead to reformulate the law on the recognition of religions and put in some other forms of regulation and some more forms of regulation. But just taking the Muslim communities out of it will immediately strengthen them because they will not be controlled. So there's New Citizen completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132741	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132754	It makes no sense at all to say, on the one hand, that we do not want any more Islam in our society... Islam should have no influence on our society... and, on the other hand, that we say that we want to support Islam and the spread of Islam with economic privileges, with privileges in relation to the entry of preachers and with privileges in relation to giving the right to marry husbands. It just doesn't make any sense. And if we maintain this line of thought, that is to say, if we have something in our society that we do not like at all, then we should give them some more money, then it is the screw without end, and that is why I am extremely unfamiliar with the fact that in DF we have come to that conclusion I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132848	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132852	It makes no sense to say that because we do not like a particular religion, it is now allowed to work completely freely in the country: under no circumstances will we keep an eye on what you do and what you say and where you get money from. Just apply for money from Saudi Arabia and receive it as you please. This is what New Citizens are in favour of. They believe that they weaken Islam, but what they do is that they weaken control of Islam, and that is not what we want in the Danish People's Party. We want to weaken the influence of Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132929	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602132936	So you do not get special rights to spread your religion just because you are not recognized. On the other hand, there will be a clear signal to the hate preachers, to those who worship Islam in the form that we see in many parts of the world, and who have also come to Denmark, if we maintain recognition. So if we politically blue stamp Islam and say: Here you get financial privileges, the right to invite hate preachers and the right to marry husbands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133013	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133020	I do not know where Mrs Pernille Vermund gets her information. There will be no fewer hateful people in Denmark by implementing this resolution. There will be no less money for the mosques by implementing this motion for a resolution. I have to say that the money that the recognised religions are getting today is small coins compared to those that we reject from Qatar and Saudi Arabia and from all sorts of other places. There won't be any less Islam. What gets less off by implementing this is less control of Islam, less control of Islamism, less control of all those whom Mrs Pernille Vermund says she has been elected to parliament to fight. They will go underground and will thus have much more influence on exactly the country that Mrs Pernille Vermund says she is here to safeguard. That is paradoxical, because if we remove recognition, we lose privileges, but then we lose control. That's why this proposal is so weird. What we have to do is to have more control and fewer privileges. But what Mrs Pernille Vermund is up to is that both things smoke. How on earth can it be in the service of the country of origin that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133125	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133133	The logic of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt shows that we should start to support the LTF with public funds. We don't. This also means that we should say to the LTF that they can now be allowed to invite biker gangs in other countries for special privileges. Of course, neither do we. There are privileges associated with gaining recognition as a religion, which are the ones I listed earlier, and those privileges are Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party, DF, is willing to give Islam and the Islamic religions and the hate preachers who spread their sermons beyond mosques in Denmark. It has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133218	Then it's mr. Messerschmidt, 1⁄2 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133222	That is simply untrue. I simply believe that Mrs Pernille Vermund has been misled by her spinning machine. Well, this proposal removes both the privileges and duties of the Muslim religions. What we want is to remove privileges and intensify commitments, i.e. more control, fewer preachers of hatred, etc. The problem is that Mrs Pernille Vermund has fallen into a trap where she does both, and that is what is crazy. It is certainly not part of the fight against the role of Islam in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133300	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133305	When I first heard that DF would vote yellow to this proposal, I was surprised, but now it strikes me that it was in the autumn of 2017 that DF helped stamp out the 66 Islamic religions that were already recognised in Denmark. DF voted for the amendment of the law and voted for the recognition of the 66 religions already on the list. When it puzzled me at first, it was probably because I tried to displace that episode from autumn 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133342	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked for the floor as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133350	Once again, where does Mrs Vermund get her information? The draft law mentioned by Mrs Vermund is, I believe, the enforcement of Paragraph 66 of the Constitution, which has been since 1849, i.e. the fact that the law was actually given to govern the religions which differ from the people's church. And I have seen that Mrs Vermund has said on several occasions that the proposal has been supported by the Danish People's Party, which regulates everything from Buddhists to Catholics and other people who are not part of the people's church. Yes, that should mean that the Danish People's Party had voted to recognise, was it 66 Muslim religions that the spin office had arrived at? But you've got to be kidding me. That's not true. Formal and material, of course, is a lie, but it has become Mrs Vermund's finest act to engage in the lie. Formally, it is untrue because it is not the Folketing that approves any religion, but the Ministry of Churches. And in material terms it is untrue because what the law actually does is that it creates the legal basis for control and the possibility of depriving the recognition of the religions of the deviant church. But this kind of detail does not seem to prevent Mrs Vermund's interest in voting maximizing. Well, no, it's the country of origin, it's about, it's true. After all, the whole problem here is that after waking up from a doze of conservatism, Mrs Vermund suddenly found out that Islam has invaded and that something has to be done about it. Since the Danish People's Party has been fighting the case for 25 years now as a one-man army, but unfortunately it has not been able to win support for 90 mandates from the people, yes, Mrs Vermund is fishing in touched waters. The only problem is that the boat she's put out on the stirred waters is leaking. There's a hole in the ship, I'd say to Mrs Vermund. That's why you come up with this kind of cheap, crafted, populist, probably proposal, which is not just against the real purpose, namely to intrude Islam back in Denmark, but even so has created a mess of doubt as to what is really up and down. So until Mrs Vermund came out of the Conservative hammock, created one party, came into another and then ended up in the Folketing by God in which way, there was, in a sense, some clarity in the Folketing about who was for Islam and who was against Islam. But today Mrs Vermund has succeeded in so completely doubting where people really stand. And who benefits? I think it's Islam. So perhaps Mrs Vermund should consider more carefully what it is actually for a cause she is fighting for. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133620	I did not interrupt the speech, but I think that the use of the word lie directly to a colleague in this way is at the edge of the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry, and I would like to say that these are falsehoods). Thank you. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133640	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt can look up the Danish Parliament's own website, which shows from the text of the law that by voting in favour of the law they already recognize the religions approved at the time. So the DF has voted in favour. And if anyone is in doubt whether you are for or against Islam, then DF could not vote yellow today. You could have marked this with a nice green signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133709	There is an answer from Mr. Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133713	But why should you vote yes to something that is bad, I would ask Mrs Vermund? Now I know that Mrs Vermund has so far not implemented her policy at all, but in the Danish People's Party we have actually tried it. In fact, we have amended the Aliens Act hundreds of times, even before Mrs Vermund even found herself in the political situation she is today, where she then agrees with the Danish People's Party's struggle. So why on earth should we go down to a level where we start to vote in favour of a proposal that we can only see notoriously will not the cause we want, namely the fight against Islam? Why should we go down to a level that is only about fishing in stirred waters and creating press headlines etc., when what we really want is to make the rules such in Denmark that they are a continuation of the Christian heritage, of the Denmark we all love, and is a removal of the Islam that we do not like? Why on earth should we go down to that level? That makes no sense, I would say to Mrs Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133805	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133812	It is quite true that the DF has been voting in favour of restrictions on foreigners for years, and what has been the result? Today we have more Islam, more unintegrable immigrants and more problems than we had 10 or 15 years ago. So if you think that DF is the solution; if you think that previous 37 mandates in a situation where there was a bourgeois majority are the solution, then continue to believe it. I still find it a pity that DF is sending out a clear signal that recognition of Islamic religions in Denmark will be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133856	No, what is unfortunate, I would like to say to Mrs Vermund, is the view that Mrs Vermund is spreading among the people, namely that without 90 mandates anything can be done. It is clear that if you conduct the policy of pure hands, where it is not really about doing something that benefits the country, but just about doing something that benefits the party, then Mrs Vermund is a world champion. I cannot see any conciliation that Mrs Vermund has been involved in, either in the city council, regional council, parliament or the European Parliament; she will not be involved in the latter either, that is true. In addition, however, I just have to ask: what is the solution for Mrs Vermund? If it is not that we negotiate and tighten when we can and in this way push Islam back, what is the alternative? I don't think Mrs Vermund was close to the 90 seats the last time I checked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133939	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602133956	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Please, sit down. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 2 (NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 8 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134239	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134245	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Please, sit down. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote for or against are then asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134538	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134746	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602134750	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 27 votes (RV, SF, EL, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 68 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The President corrected the error at 1 p.m. 13.52, and the correct number of votes is therefore indicated above. ] The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135005	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135009	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). For voting 8 (DF), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstention 2 (NB). That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135320	Don't worry, it's not to start an equal opportunities debate that I'm coming up here. I would just like to say that when we first dealt with the proposal, many parties were positive about the proposal. We talked about whether it should be 12 special police units, whether it should be a travel team, whether it should be a central unit, etc. etc. Why we could not get a majority in favour of the proposal anyway is due to the fact that we are about to negotiate a police settlement. Most parties said that they did not vote in favour because it was part of the police conciliation and negotiations there. That is why I just need to say that if the unthinkable thing should happen, that in the police conciliation we do not manage to make this proposal in some form, so that we can kill women's murders and women's violence and partner violence, then I think we should shake hands with each other that we then retable a similar proposal and get it implemented. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135427	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135431	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). For the votes of 9 (EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135700	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135708	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a majority (V, S, RV, SF, KF, NB, SIU, JF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG))? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135722	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602135727	We shall vote on the final adoption of the proposal. Anyone who votes in favour of the motion will be asked to stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Those who do not vote for or against are asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, indicated manner) For voting 44 (DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against voting 51 (S, V and LA), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140034	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140057	We shall vote on the final adoption of the proposal. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, indicated way) For voting 10 (DF and NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), neither for nor against voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140346	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140358	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a majority (V, S, DF, RV, EL, KF, NB, JF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the criminal code]. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF and NB), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If there is no request for a vote, I consider Amendment No. 3 and 4 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 6 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code]. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 and 9 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 10-14 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (V, DF and KF), which was rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 15 and 16 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (DF), which was rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 17 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140557	Amendments have been tabled. As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140615	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140631	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140644	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-6, elected by the committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140712	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140730	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140745	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140801	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140816	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140838	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 of a minority (LA), joined by a minority (KF), which was rejected. They are rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140857	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140911	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in A. [Proposal for a law on products and market surveillance]: I would like to vote on Amendment No. 2-21, member of the Committee? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law on the sale and marketing of nitrous oxide to consumers]: 22-33, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602140948	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141032	The first vote will be on L 176. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (RV) rejected. It has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on L 177. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (RV) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, joined by a majority (S, DF, SF, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG))? It's agreed. The vote will then be taken on L 178. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, DF, SF, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG))? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2-6 of a minority (RV) rejected. They are rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141130	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141146	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of V), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division in two legislative proposals has thus been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners, the law on integration and various other laws]: 2-8, elected by a majority? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 9 of a minority (EL), joined by a majority? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141237	I think we're gonna take a very short breath break. I know the Prime Minister is on the move, but I cannot start the question debate until the Prime Minister is here. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 June 2020. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141404	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister and the Government for, of course, standing as you should for a question debate such as this one which a number of parties have wanted. If we turn the time back to before corona, if you remember it, we were faced with a situation where we looked with horror at the border between Greece and Turkey and saw how President Erdogan used the migrants who are in Turkey in a domestic political game to threaten us in the European Union in order to allow a new stream of migrants to enter Europe, migrants who could potentially continue up through Europe and also up to Denmark's borders. After all, we saw that in the autumn of 2015 at the latest. It is clear that it is important for us in the Danish People's Party, but of course also for other questioners today, to ensure that we in Denmark are prepared for such a situation so that it does not happen again. That is why we have wanted a debate here in Parliament about what the government is doing, how to ensure that we do not again find ourselves in such a violent situation at the risk of Denmark and of our homogeneity, etc. And we look forward to hearing some answers from the government about what you are doing to ensure that, and to having a good debate this afternoon that hopefully equips Denmark for a possible similar situation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141546	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And then it's the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602141553	Thank you. And with the opening words of the Danish People's Party, we could really make the debate today extremely brief, because we could have raised the question ourselves with the same wording and with the same argument as was just used here. Of course, we must do what we can to prevent and counteract a situation such as the one we witnessed and which we experienced in Denmark and in Europe in the year 2015, must repeat itself. Our society will not benefit from this, integration will not benefit, cohesion will not benefit, nor will refugees benefit from it. But I assume that now that a question debate has been called, I must also reply a little longer than just to confirm that we agree with the questions in the weighting and importance of this debate, and I think that the conclusion can be drawn together. It is quite true that this debate was originally announced at the beginning of March and today we are writing on 2 June. The debate has been postponed, but of course it has not been cancelled, and so it is with a number of political issues, that is to say that in many ways Corona has cleared the agenda this spring for good reason. But what was important before corona is also important after corona. And the reason, as the questioner also mentioned, is the situation with the Greek-Turkish border, which, of course, is different now than when the question was reported. However, although the influx of refugees to Denmark and Europe is currently low, we must also take the view that this is the exception and we must expect that the influx will start to rise again at some point. Therefore, there is a fundamental need for a new asylum system, which in our view is both fairer and more humane. That's what the government thought before corona. That's what we think now. In our view, a new asylum system is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that, at least as far as our own continent is concerned, it is Europe and Europeans who control development and not traffickers or traffickers in human beings. Since 2019 it is estimated that more than 19,000 people have drowned in the Mediterranean and more than one million asylum seekers have been denied their applications in the EU. It is a humanitarian disaster and, to put it bluntly, it is not the right way to spend the money, not even in the home asylum procedure, that so many people who do not have a need for protection should come here and spend their savings on it instead of creating development in their own country. We must then spend a great deal of money on dealing with asylum applications, which turns out not to lead to one staying here, plus that everyone knows that we are still struggling with rejected asylum seekers, who cost us a lot of money, money that we could spend much better in the neighbourhood. So we must basically do more outside Europe and at Europe's borders, help where people are and, of course, lift our international responsibilities and ensure that fewer people try to get here through the use of traffickers. That is why our position is basically that we should move the asylum procedure itself out of Europe, so that we do not, as today, indirectly ask those who are on the run or through migration to risk their lives in order to be eligible for asylum. So, to make a long story short, our long-term vision is well known: asylum procedures must be moved out of Europe to reception centres in third countries. From the Danish side we have started to upgrade the effort, you might say. We are now supporting projects in, among others. Tunisia, which is precisely based on the premise that the problem of migration needs to be tackled more in the neighbourhood. The projects here represent the direction that we in Denmark want, and of course we support it also to mark a Danish voice on the international migration scene. The need is great, but of course I must also say that the road is a long one. I myself have had the opportunity to raise this issue in a series of meetings with European colleagues and with what may be called the European institutions, in my early days as Prime Minister. We have discussed the concrete Danish ideas, and I have made it clear that this is a top priority for Denmark and that we would also like to see more people on board. The road to Europe must basically not be taken in overcrowded rubber boats, but by the proper and controlled resettlement of those who have a real need for protection, and not as today: of those who may have money or contacts or forces for the dangerous journey. I think we all, at least many of us, can understand why people are setting themselves on the move and why we have an eternal and continuous both desire, but also responsibility to help those who are on the run. We must help people in need, but we must also take care of Denmark. We must not receive more refugees and immigrants than we can integrate. We have now seen for decades how it not only challenges, but also marshs our cohesion in Denmark, and what we saw back in 2015 and 2016 with large flows of refugees drew long traces. I think many people lost confidence in the asylum system, an asylum system that was exhibited. I believe that many people lost confidence in European cooperation and, in fact, lost confidence in us politicians. In other words, there is a lot at stake, and that is why I am pleased to say that the European Union, and especially Greece, acted strongly and quickly when, at the beginning of the year, we saw the worrying developments on the border with Turkey. There was a clear statement from the Turkish Government. Of course, we know from Europe that Turkey is in an extremely difficult situation with a great many refugees and migrants, but it should not be used as a means of exerting pressure on Europe. Denmark also stepped in. The government offered help both to my Greek and to our Bulgarian colleagues, and we will now fund part of the efforts for unaccompanied minors asylum seekers in Greece. We support Frontex with equipment and staff, and we continue our efforts in the neighbourhood. With the experience we have now from the beginning of the year, I would also like to take an eye on the fact that Europe is better equipped for the situation than it was five years ago, but we are still missing the long-term and sustainable solutions, and of course we also lack the necessary political impetus, that is, the political will not only to turn a few buttons on, but actually to create a new asylum system. The Commission will soon present a proposal for a new asylum and migration package for Europe. We have, of course, had a dialogue with the Commission, and we would like the Commission's proposal to include elements relating to strengthening the external borders, more preventive work in the transit countries and improving the possibility of repatriation. This will be important in order to get the negotiations in the right direction. This is a major priority for the government, although the last few months have been filled with dealing with the corona crisis. I know that this is also something that concerns many of the parties of the Folketing, and therefore a call from me for us in the Folketing to come together to rethink European asylum policy. I am also pleased to say that we have now come so far in the fight against corona that we can address some of the other problems that have not gone away in the meantime. It's necessary. I hope that we will be able to take the next steps today and I look forward to a safe both good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142434	Thank you. There is now the possibility of a question from each of the general rapporteurs. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142443	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. Just over a year ago, I was very impressed by the Social Democratic Party, which, after all, gave this story that a whole new way of solving the asylum challenges had been found, namely that as soon as asylum seekers came to Denmark, the Social Democracy would enchant them down to a camp in North Africa. As a former foreign minister, I had thought about what we could do to solve these problems, so I was so impressed by the social democracy that for a moment there was a part of my DNA whispering: Social democracy has simply seen the light. It was then until I heard the rational voice saying: that is probably a little easier said than done. So if I may ask the Prime Minister: in three days' time it is 1 year since there were elections. How many asylum seekers have the Social Democracy sent down to a camp in North Africa in the year that has passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142535	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142537	Firstly, I would like to say that we have not said at any time that, as was said in the question, this issue can be enchanted. Both the questioner and, in this case, the answer is not possible. And there is really no reason why we should be spending our time today on the more polemical discussions, because everyone in this House knows that this is difficult, and if it was easy to create a new asylum system, the previous government would have done so. You didn't do that because it's hard. Everything starts, however, with a vision and a desire to get things done, and our approach has always been to seek a common European response and closer European cooperation, and that is what we have spent time on at the beginning. And then I would say, and I will certainly repeat this sometimes in this debate, that the last three months, for my part, have been full of one thing, namely to deal with the corona, and that of course also means that it is not this work that has been the first priority in that phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142638	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142640	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction here. In February 2018, the Prime Minister said, or at least it is referred to on Danmarks Radio: The aim is to bring more countries, but I am ready to take the lead. So it was the asylum policy that was discussed. Now the Prime Minister is talking about a top priority for Denmark. I would like to know whether there is still a will on the part of the government to take the lead, or whether what I hear in today's speech, namely seeking a joint European response, has replaced what was presented in February 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142725	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142726	Our starting point has always been that, of course, if possible, we should seek common European answers. I am not sure that this means that it will be an EU response, but I can also feel in the dialogue I myself have with other Heads of Government in Europe that we are not the only ones who think this way. I believe that there is a growing recognition that the current system of immigration and refugees has failed and that there is a need for new thinking. Then there are different approaches to how to do it, and that is why our priority has been to see from the outset whether we can find a way and find a way in European cooperation in this respect. What it has to do, if it is not possible, we must take that order. But, of course, I think we should see if we can seek some sort of European consensus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142823	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142825	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a speech that I think is balanced and good. After all, I very much agree with the Prime Minister that we have a dysfunctional asylum system, which we also write about in the understanding paper, and it is good that we have a fundamental debate on it. If, however, something actually works, it is in my optics quota refugees scheme. This is an arrangement which, in many ways, ensures solidarity and where we in Denmark can also help to show international leadership and take our share of the international commitments. Nevertheless, the government has not yet put forward a plan to take 500 quota refugees. I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration several times about this. But that is why I would like to hear from the Prime Minister: why is it that the government has not put forward a plan to take 500 quota refugees yet? Is it not possible for a country like Denmark to meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142919	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602142921	Well, that depends on how you make it up. If you look only at what the number of spontaneous asylum seekers at any given time is and whether that means that you per. Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on this subject. Another way to look at it is to look at the whole area of refugees and foreigners in one way or another, and to keep in mind every discussion we have, that integration works, yes, but that, unfortunately, there is also a lot of integration that we have never got to work. You have to bear that in mind. We believe that we can have an opening for some quota refugees, but I think that we need to see it in its entirety and there is too much integration that still does not work, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143035	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143038	Thank you. Now it is probably not the first time after a parliamentary election a year ago that you look at whether the promises you make in an election campaign will also be implemented when you have gained power, and of course the Prime Minister must find that it is for her too. Sir. Marcus Knuth and others have already mentioned this with reception centres somewhere outside Europe, and the Prime Minister says that it probably takes a little work and that it is not just like that. It is clear that the Social Democratic Party will set such a ceiling in the annual economic agreements with the municipalities. Two economic agreements have now been concluded with the municipalities since the Social Democracy came to power. Can the Prime Minister tell us where such a ceiling on the number of non-western immigrants to Denmark is set out in these agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143137	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143138	It is quite true that this government has already concluded two agreements with municipalities and regions respectively, and these have been rather atypical agreements in both rounds. The first year was immediately after an election in which, as the questioner knows, there was a delay because the election campaign was held in parallel with the typical conclusion of an agreement, so there was not much time to conclude the agreements. On the one hand, the municipalities and regions have a number of costs associated with corona, not least in the field of education and the elderly, and, on the other hand, this is something that we must expect to extend into the future. So who has wanted, I think I can allow myself to say both from the KL and from the government, to solve the task that is on the table in relation to corona, and that is why the municipal agreement looks as it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143241	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143245	In the run-up to the debate, various discussions are taking place on such a draft text for adoption that the debate may lead to. There we have tried to get the Social Democratic Party on the exact wordings contained in the document of understanding, and I understand that there is no wish to join the government. This is not in the text we have seen from the Social Democrats, but it is in the understanding paper. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to guarantee that such a new asylum system, which I understand the government is working on, complies with international law when we are allowed to see what kind of system it is that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143343	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143344	Our approach is, of course, on all issues: we must respect the international commitments that we have signed and that we have agreed to. It is an important part of having a world society that works. Then, of course, there must also be room in such a wider debate on foreign policy and, as such, legal policy discussion to have a real discussion on the wording of some of the international obligations, and I have said earlier in this Chamber, and I would like to repeat that I think, for example, that some of the international regulation that is in relation to citizenship is problematic, because in my view it protects some people who want Denmark to hurt. So I think it is important, as with everything else, that we should be able to have a discussion with each other. But basically, the government believes, of course, that we must respect our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143443	I am quite clear that corona has put a lot of ground to it and that there are things that you focus on over other things, and when it comes to this reception centre, we in the Left also understand that that is not what has been right in front of it. But there comes a time when we have to look at it again. There I would like to know when the government is considering following this unilateral lead, that is to say, the European Union trail, where agreement is being sought to create a joint reception centre with either a larger or smaller group, or finally, as in the case of social democracy, the phenomenon of foreigners is going completely alone. When will we reach the point where we change from one to the other, and how close are we to it, so that we can reach it during a period of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143537	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143538	First of all, of course, I would like to sign for the words of the Left. I think it has meant a great deal for the Danish people to have been able to see and feel that, during such a remarkable period as the one we have just considered, the Folketing and the government have jointly concentrated their efforts and, by the way, thank you for your good cooperation in resolving the crisis that we have been through and for which we cannot, by the way, end because we do not know how the virus develops. I really believe that the Social Democrats and the Left agree, both in terms of the European and global track, that it will always be good to seek a common response and a common path. So that is still what we are pursuing, and for good reasons I do not come to conclude on what might come after it, because I believe there are opportunities here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143637	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143640	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for confirming once again that we must, of course, respect the conventions that we have signed. That is also what my question is about. For Denmark, of course, contributes to Frontex cooperation, and this is well documented, I have to say, unfortunately, that there are situations at the border between Turkey and Greece where the human rights convention and other conventions are being violated. And I would really just like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion that Danish staff could then be in a situation where they actually help to make these violations of the convention or breach of the convention. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's comment on this, as we are discussing the asylum system in such a broad way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143728	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143729	Yes, but it does not only apply to Denmark, but also to European cooperation, that we respect the common rules of the game, both at European and global level. This is also true of the efforts made here, and I actually find that there is broad support for this in Europe. Then it is just a very, very difficult situation to have to deal with an outer limit, which is, of course, the whole prerequisite for Europe to function. But in general terms, of course, the rules must be complied with, and this also applies to Danish personnel when they are deployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143806	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. And the first one we get on the platform is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602143824	There is no doubt that the greatest danger facing Europe is a very explosive immigration into the European area, including Denmark, Africa and the Middle East. The fact that by 2050, Africa's 1.2 billion people are expected to double to 2.4 billion is along with climate change, which means that people will want to move, something that means that there will be real, really strong pressure on Europe's borders, including Denmark's borders. If we look at Europe, the prerequisite, as we see in the Danish People's Party, is that we have a harmonious development of our society, which is favourable, which is positive, that we have a high degree of homogeneity in the population, so that we are similar, that we feel that we are close to each other. When we face a crisis like the Corona crisis, for example, we have seen that it is a prerequisite for resolving such a crisis in a very good way that we have a high degree of trust in each other, and that trust is also based on the fact that we feel that we are very much connected, that we are close to each other. It also has something to do with our history and our Christian cultural heritage. There are plenty of things that you can read into the sense of community that we have in a country like Denmark. But it is clear that when we look at the developments in Africa and the Middle East and look at the pressure, the pressure that will come to our borders, it stirs up unrest; then it really arouses the insecurity of the people. We saw in 2015, what happens when you are unprepared for the situation that suddenly the border is broken and people are flowing not only in thousands of tens of thousands, but in fact had to be counted in the million-dollar class across Europe's borders to an extent that even reached Denmark's border and Sweden's border, etc. and settled in our countries. We were unprepared. We had no border controls at the time. We didn't have any people to try to get involved in this. And therefore the people saw with increasing anxiety the masses of people who went on our highways up through Denmark. When we raise a query debate like this, it's because just before the corona broke out, we saw that something similar could happen again. We know that hundreds of thousands of people have gathered just outside the borders of the European Union and have one wish: to enter the Promised Land. We must put an end to this. We must make sure that what happened in 2015 cannot happen in 2020 and in the years ahead. That is why we are raising this debate. And I have to say that I get a little nervous when I hear the Prime Minister's answer to the question, which is, of course, about what initiatives the Prime Minister will then take, so that we can be sure that this will not happen again. We think it is fine to have control at the EU's external borders, but what matters is whether you are willing to secure Denmark's borders if the external borders are not sufficient. For example, are you ready to implement the emergency braking system that we got into the legislation following the developments that took place in 2015? Are we prepared to have the preparations at the border which will enable us to implement them at today's notice, if necessary? I don't think we got any clear answers to that. This reception centre is a great idea, that is, that you have a new asylum system where you cannot apply for asylum in Denmark at all, but have your case dealt with elsewhere. It is, of course, an okay thought, but as long as there is not only the hint that it can become something in the real world, it is then. And there we heard the Foreign Minister say in Berlingske a few months ago that it was probably not very realistic with this system. Then we can also see the other things that the government does not give quite so high priority to. Now, I understand that this was not a very high priority because of the corona, and one can of course have some understanding of that, but then not when one looks at the other things of the social democracy's foreign policy on which elections were held, such as the ceiling on how many non-western immigrants are allowed to come to Denmark. Yes, there have now been two municipal agreements to achieve that, as was said to be the case. I could understand from the Prime Minister that the reason why it had not been given priority was, of course, that there was expenditure in relation to the corona that had to be handled, and then I think: does it cost money in the municipal negotiations to set such a ceiling? No, it doesn't. All it takes is for you to take the initiative. However, as the Vice-President of the KL said after the recent municipal negotiations, the subject had not been raised by the government in the negotiations at all. So it did not seem as if the municipalities were necessarily opposed to it; simply they had chosen not to raise it at all. As time runs, on behalf of DF and NB, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark and Europe face a huge migrant challenge, where 100,000 migrants sit stranded in Greece and Turkish President Erdogan uses the opening of Turkish borders to new migratory flows as a political weapon to the European Union. Furthermore, we are facing a very worrying demographic development in which the population is growing dramatically in Africa and the Middle East and millions of people from there want to travel to Europe. The Folketing states that Denmark as an independent nation must always be able to control who comes to this country. For this reason, the Folketing instructs the government to ensure Danish support for the EU's external border, to ensure the necessary preparedness at the Danish border, so that the emergency brake can be activated at short notice, and to work for a new asylum system where you do not have the right to seek asylum in Denmark when you come here from a safe country. • V 76).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602144419	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And the proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602144443	I will start by signing for the call for this relevant query debate. For while the theme of today's debate, refugees and migrants, has filled less while the Corona crisis has gone on, it is obvious that it is a challenge that will come to light again now when the world is gradually reopening. And how do we avoid, as the call for today's debate says, seeing a new flow of refugees and migrants in the same disastrous way as in 2015 and 2016? That is an important question. In addition to the topicality of the debate, it also testifies to me that a large majority in the Folketing absolutely does not want a repeat of the scenes we saw in 2015. That consensus is a good and important starting point. Back in 2015, we had a blue government that was supported by the Danish People's Party. The Løkke government handled the crisis to the best of its ability, and it was a chaotic time that led to a large number of asylum seekers and since family reunifications to Denmark. Then followed the challenges of cultural clashes and unemployment, etc. Many problems arose in those weeks and months, and many of them we continue to struggle with. Although Løkke's government and the Danish People's Party were responsible at the time, I think it would be wrong today to criticise the blue block for the crisis that we are still feeling the consequences of. For perhaps something could have been done differently, but we must recognise that basically was the problem that made it difficult to deal with the crisis, that international cooperation in dealing with refugees and migrants was not and is not sustainable. The system, or the lack thereof, serves the relatively most affluent refugees and migrants, and it primarily benefits relatively young men. The burden is heavy on European countries, which have to deal with the thousands of refugees and migrants arriving and, as a consequence, are forgotten and abandoned by the millions of people who cannot escape. The other day we had another foreign debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and despite the fact that there were a number of views and statements that would probably have liked to have stayed home in the history books of the 1990s, it was a good debate. However, it was a debate which, like most of the foreign debates we have in this Chamber, is only necessary because migration to Denmark has been too great for many years; too large from areas of the world where values and customs and standards repeatedly prove difficult to reconcile with those on which we base our social model. In the debate, reference was made to research which supposedly had to underpin some of the social-constructive wishful thinking which, unfortunately, continues to be widespread in parts of the foreign debate. When Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance called for a few examples of which researchers might be thought of, so unfortunately the examples were a little tricky. On the other hand, on today's occasion, I have taken a few references to some researchers who support the need for the immigration policy, which fortunately a broad majority in the Folketing is behind. The first one I would like to highlight is Paul Collier. He says integration problems are self-enhancing. That is to say, when there is already a large minority from a given country in Denmark, it is easier for more people to follow because you have family that urges you to come, there are family reunifications, etc. Every time that happens, people seek together, and instead of being integrated into society, they become part of a parallel society. Another relevant researcher who supports the concerns of the majority of the Danish Parliament is Robert Putnam. His research shows that the more migrants in local communities, the greater the distrust between minority and majority populations. At the same time, the indigenous population is withdrawing. It starts to go out less, has fewer friends, watching more TV. In a Danish context, it is an apt picture that Danes in particularly non-profit residential areas have been allowed to pay the price for a relaxed alien policy for decades. The research and experience I have had here underlines the importance of not being overrun by a new flood of refugees and migrants. As the Prime Minister has said, it is therefore crucial that it is the European countries that decide who is staying in them and that we have destroyed the cynical and anti-human business models of the smugglers, that we spend more resources in the neighbourhood and less on dealing with people in Denmark, and that we ensure coherence and support for the welfare state in Denmark. The last point I've made from a scientist is Collier again, because it's this connection force that's under pressure. According to Collier, 98 percent. of the British in 1991 prepared for the state to increase the level of welfare, although this meant that they had to pay more in tax. In 2012, that figure had fallen to 28%. The explanation pointed out is the lack of cohesion in society, with reference to immigration. This must not be the case in Denmark, which is why we must continue to focus on fundamental reform of the asylum system. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the best solution will be if asylum treatment can be carried out in a reception centre and that we no longer have to deal with so many spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark. In this way, we can help more people in the neighbourhood and we can take care of the sense of community and cohesion in this country. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour to present the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark and Europe face a lasting migration challenge that the current asylum system is unable to deal with. People on the run are putting themselves at risk of life. Cynical smugglers earn billions of dollars from other people's accidents. And the weakest are abandoned in the vicinity. The current system also creates problems in Denmark. Too many have entered Denmark without becoming a part of Denmark. It's pushing the cohesion force. We need a fairer and more sustainable system in which access to Europe and Denmark is controlled by Europe and Denmark and not by traffickers. The Danish Parliament therefore notes with satisfaction that the government is committed to a new asylum system to break the impetus behind people's perilous journey to Europe by moving asylum procedures to a reception centre outside Europe. • V 77). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145010	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also included in the next reading. The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145019	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would actually like to ask the Socialist rapporteur about this reception centre, which is intended to be set up somewhere outside the borders of the European Union, and which is where the handling of one's case should take place. In any case, we have received the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because in an article not long ago it is something which is so much in terms of implementing it. It has long prospects, one must understand. So what until then? So what are some of the changes you're imagining? Will you still recognise people's right to come to Denmark and seek asylum spontaneously here in Denmark until such a reception centre becomes a reality, or do you envisage taking any initiatives that in reality limit that right, on the basis that this is going through six, seven safe countries up through Europe to get to Denmark and seek asylum, which is apparently what we agree on, a system that should not have been going on land at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145125	Now in the report of the article, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke, it came to sound as if the Minister for Foreign Affairs had completely abandoned this project, and so I have not read that article or understood the Minister when he has later spoken on it. He's just saying the same thing as the PM: it takes time and it's hard. And it's no secret to anyone. In view of what the theme of the urgent question is, where Dansk Folkeparti puts the emphasis here on avoiding the crisis we saw in 2015 and 2016, we have since jointly got a number of new tools in the toolbox that can help us if something similar should be on the way: We have established this so-called emergency brake. We have introduced carrier responsibility. Family reunification rules have been tightened. A few years ago, we agreed to tighten up the rules on citizenship; that is, of course, in the longer term. But in addition, we have made the paradigm change jointly, which also has a broad majority in the Folketing behind it and which of course regulates the terms of residence permit, including permanent residence. In this way, I really believe that we have done a lot already and, in addition, there is also an international level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145228	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145230	But we agree that the purpose of this reception centre is, as stated in the Social Democratic election programme: the possibility of spontaneously seeking asylum on Danish soil is removed. What this is about is that the possibility of obtaining residence in Denmark by spontaneously seeking asylum on Danish soil is removed. That's the target of the reception center. At best, it loses a little when it will be possible to establish when we might get it out of. Now it has been a year and one cannot really get any closer, but it may well be that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come into the debate later. So what until then? Isn't there something about the right to seek asylum on Danish soil being changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145315	We have not given up this reception centre, and until then we have taken a number of measures together, which are part of what is meant to prevent this happening. That's why it's important to set up this reception center. It is because it will have the long-term effect that it will not be attractive to apply for asylum in Denmark, because you know in advance that you are one of those who do not even have a legitimate asylum motive, and yet it is a large proportion of these asylum seekers who come who do not turn out to have, and then the effect will be thin out that it is not worthwhile. They're coming to Denmark. Then they are put on a plane and are flown back to a country wherever it is going to be, and deal with their case there and are rejected, and if they are not rejected, they land in a refugee camp in some area nearby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145358	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145359	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that the hope is still to set up this reception centre in North Africa. But can we not get a little closer to how long we have to wait for that? Just like that in purely crude terms, is it weeks? Are those months? Is it year? Or are we all the way up for decades? Can the rapporteur just come a little bit towards saying how long we have to wait for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145424	No, of course I cannot, because it is very, very difficult to make such a centre here. But that is why you can do what you can until it is finished and hopefully the project has succeeded. And I think that yesterday's news that Tunisia is now being helped to train border guards and to provide an educational institution for reinforced border guarding, so there is one of the Mediterranean routes that we know and which we know has meant a lot, which is now giving more difficult conditions to traffickers who have secured migrants' access to Europe along that path, is of course a small contribution to thinking about asylum policy and migration policy in a new way. But it is clear, and Mr. Marcus Knuth also well that no one knows the date when it will succeed in setting up such a reception centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145514	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145514-2	If it is so uncertain and uncontrollable, is it even fair that the Social Democratic Party went to the polls on it? In other words, just over a year ago, this was the main theme of foreign policy when the Social Democrats went to the polls. Is it so fair to the Danes, to us here in the Folketing now a year later to say: it is so intangible, we cannot really relate to that? If I may follow up with another question: when we are back here in a year's time, if the Danish People's Party or any other party calls for a debate, will the reception centre be in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145553	The last first: I do not know the date when it might be possible to open such a reception centre. However, I think it is quite reasonable to insist that in a crucial place where there is something fundamentally structuralally wrong with the way in which international asylum cooperation works, there is a vision of doing so in a different way, and that we then pursue it and work with it seriously. And that work is going on. I could better understand the criticism if it were the case that the government did nothing at all in this context. But as long as you work seriously on it and have an ambition to succeed, I am still confident and optimistic. And the alternative is to accept the status quo. We can't live with that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145632	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145633	I have, of course, also read with interest and enthusiasm this immigration initiative presented by the Social Democratic Party, and it was especially page 13, which is where the idea of moving the entire asylum treatment out of Denmark, out of Europe, is launched. And that's really good. But the best thing about this proposal from the Social Democratic Party is really the title: Justice and Realism. Righteous yes, I can't imagine anything more fair than saying that people should seek asylum close to where they come from. We agree entirely with that. But what's interesting, sir. Stoklund, it's realistic. There you go, sir. So Stoklund doesn't quite fail to define a little more precisely what the realistic thing in this is. Now the Social Democracy has the power of government, and even for the first time in, I do not know how many years, one should not even share it with the Radicals or other parties. So when do we get this? How realistic is it in fact that what is on page 13 here in the Social Democrats' motion also becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145742	First of all, thank you for the praise for the show. I'll do sir. Morten Messerschmidt notes that we continue to accept new members if the enthusiasm may be sustained. But realism is, of course, continuing to work on this. After all, there is nothing that has been abandoned or that has happened because, for example, some conventions or other had to say that this is not possible or that something else should stand in the way of it. But it's clear that you don't do this from one day to the next. When you have had an asylum system for decades that has not worked, when you have structures that do not work, you do not change them overnight. Of course. It takes time. But to conclude that because something takes time for a government that has been sitting for less than a year, it is completely unrealistic, I do not recognise. I think it is far too early to draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145832	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145833	But sir... Mr Stoklund see that it may be that there are some voters out there who have simply understood the word realistically in a different way from Mr Stoklund. Stoklund and the Prime Minister and others? I understand, sir. Stoklund states that "realistic" means that there are no technical barriers that prevent this from being realized here. I think there are a lot of people out there who have considered the word realistic as meaning that this is something that one then wants to implement and can then Mr. Stoklund provide a guarantee that this is something that is realistic to implement, for example. During this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145912	When you read the playout, I think it is clear that the realist refers very much to the total lack of sustainability that is in the current system. The realistic thing is that today, as it has been for decades now, it is unrealistic to continue to believe that people from the Third World and at the moment they are very much migrants, that is, people who do not have a real need for asylum must come to Northern Europe, be accommodated here and live to the end of their days in northern Europe. This is not the way to solve the world's refugee problems. It is realism in that we want to turn things around and instead of spending a great many resources on a very small number of people in northern Europe then spend the resources on a very large number of people in the areas where conflicts are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145954	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602145959	I have just asked for the floor because I would like to thank you for having launched a migration sociological study group here in the Danish Parliament. I think that is very positive. When we had the debate last week, when we had some other authors on the table, there was one of the proposers who said that this migration sociological research was driven by politics, i.e. understood that the author had written the conclusion first politically and then got data to fit together. So my question is whether Mr. Rasmus Stoklund can confirm that both Paul Collier and Robert Putnam are in fact what is called liberals in English, so that their political starting point is not a right-wing political starting point, but that it is liberal researchers who have bowed to their data.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150056	Yes, it is also my clear impression that it is people who have a healthy, positive attitude to how to conduct sociological research. And it is a good starting point that you do not start with a problem formulation that is driven by what gives you a good gut feeling and what kind of research you would like to end up with. So, yes, that is also my view, as Mr. Henrik Dahls, that this is good research that you can lean on safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150127	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150129	Thank you for the floor. When we are a number of rapporteurs who are a little concerned about this over time, it is because, unlike previous governments, the Social Democrats have said something new, namely that they are ready to take the lead. One of the challenges for New Citizens that has been the challenge of the promises made to the Danes for years has been that one has said one thing, but that once you have gained power you have said that you cannot do so because of international rules of the game, the European Union or conventions. But what the Social Democratic Party said in February 2018 was that the aim was to get more, but that you were ready to take the lead, and that you hoped for the Danes' support for this. And that is why there is perhaps a legitimate expectation that the Social Democrats will do something other than what politicians have promised the Danes in the past. And that is why I think it is quite reasonable to follow up on Mr. Marcus Knuth's question about time. And it's not to be polemical, but the question is: what can the Danes expect is it during this term, or when are you ready to take the lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150240	Well, I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that if you went to the polls on something where you saw, as soon as the votes were counted, that it could never be done and referred to the European Union and some conventions, then that is the direct way to politicians and mistrust. Well, I would be strongly opposed to that if you had done so. Now it was also a hypothetical example, for we have not done so. We're working hard to make this work work. And it is true that this is not the final reception centre, but I think that the very thinking is well illustrated by some of the international cooperation which is now beginning, as it was launched yesterday, with Tunisia and Rwanda. I think that is a fine way of showing that asylum policy can be thought of in a completely new way and migration cooperation in a completely new way internationally. Well, that means there's a little bit of two leads. There is, of course, both something about how we deal with it at home and what sort of legal things need to be clarified and things like that, and there is also the clue that runs with the government, where you have to have contacts with other countries and where you have to make agreements, where you have to find out that there is something on both sides of this. Because it shouldn't just be in Denmark's interest... then we'll never succeed with this. There has to be reciprocity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150351	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150352	There may be some Danes sitting out there thinking that there is now a government that has gained power, that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting the need for a new asylum system and that there is even a government that has said that they are willing to take the lead, and if, then, even on the part of the rapporteur's party, who has the power of government, you can say that it is their ambition that it is going to happen during this parliamentary term, the rapporteur can understand that the Danes are thinking: what can we expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150426	Well, I actually think the Danes understand that this is a difficult task. And I also think that Mrs Pernille Vermund is pointing to something paradoxical here, because Mrs Pernille Vermund himself says that there is apparently a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting this, and yet I have now experienced a number of debates, where it is more about trying to explain why it is not possible and putting stones in the shoes of the project. Well, I really do not understand why such a more constructive approach is not taken to it and takes it to its sister parties around Europe, or what do I know is trying to back it up constructively instead of trying to talk it down. I am confident that the Danes know very well that this is a complex task, but that at the same time they are confident that we are working seriously on it, and we are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150508	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150511	Thank you. All I have to do is pray, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for a single clarification. In fact, I had some doubts as to what Mr. Rasmus Stoklund said. Is there a contradiction between having a strong welfare society and helping people flee, or can both be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150530	There is a contradiction between that if you insist that those people should be helped in your own society. If you have a welfare society with universal welfare like the Danish one, it can only be linked in the long term if there are relatively closed borders. Otherwise, you have to be an immigrant nation, that is, a country where you have a very, very low level of welfare as a starting point, where you assure yourself of things, and then you can have open borders, because then people sail a little their own lake when they get there, but then you are not so dependent on the same kind of cohesion, and then you can live next to each other in different parallel societies and create your own small neighborhoods. But yes, if you want to maintain a social model such as the Danish one, it depends entirely on strict foreign policy. But that does not mean that we should not help people in need, because we still want to, and we can help people in the neighbourhood, and that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150614	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150616	I very much disagree with that, i.e. it is the opposite of each other in the way Mr. Rasmus Stoklund describes. It is absolutely right that we need a strong cohesion force, and that is also why we need a strong integration effort for those who then come, so as to avoid parallel societies. I would just like to oppose the fact that it would be too expensive to help someone or that it would be too expensive to integrate. The money is found in our society, also elsewhere, for example. we could look at some of all those who place Danish crowns in tax havens, and then that money could ensure that we had a strong welfare society and a good integration effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150656	When I talk about foreign policy, it has nothing to do with the fact that I do not think that tax havens should also be combated, so I think that is something a little different. I think we just have to admit that we disagree here. I do not believe that it is basically the task of society to integrate people, because I think it should be the case that when you come to a new country and want to settle there, you take responsibility for yourself and start learning the language of that country, find a job, become part of that community, get to know the neighbours, get to know the community, and what do I know? I don't recognize that logic because it's society that has to say what we can do now to make you feel really comfortable here, and what we can do about it, so that you can feel even more at home, as if you were still in your homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150745	The debate on a common reception centre outside Europe is in a European context over 30 years old. It has been discussed and discussed, and everyone who follows this area knows that this is something you have a lot of talk about, but there has never been sausage of that skin at any time. That is why I think that the government must have given some thought to when we have, like, called around and discovered that it is as usual in that area and then we are now acting alone and doing what we have promised the Danes, namely to create a reception centre outside Europe. Otherwise, it is such a strange schism to place people in when you resume a debate that you know has not moved for more than three decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150832	Well, I do not think it is true that this debate has not moved. It is true that it is a debate that has been going on for years, but if we are starting from our own country, then previous governments have not taken the trouble here to examine what legal measures would have to be taken, i.e. what opportunities there were in this way, what limitations and what possibilities there might be in relation to Danish legislation, conventions, etc. I mean, just doing the basic rye bread work, nobody has bothered. It would have been a natural place to start if you had meant it seriously, once you had checked into the debate yourself earlier I think that is part of it. In addition, I think that sometimes some of the critics of the vision of a reception centre owe a response to what they think the alternative is, otherwise the alternative will be the status quo, and that is not sustainable. Because we come back to the scenes we saw in 2015 and 2016, if we're not careful. It is certainly part of the risk if we do not accept that we have to work to reform our asylum system basically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150935	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602150937	I think now that many would think that the alternative to something that is unrealistic is to talk about what is realistic. So, is it realistic that, during this reign, the Social Democratic Party will come up with a proposal for a reception centre outside Europe's borders, either in cooperation with others, or by Denmark going all alone and getting an agreement with a country outside Europe itself and running such a centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151005	It can certainly be said that it would not be realistic if the government had not started work at all to investigate how it could be done in practical terms if the government had not made the legal clarifications needed and if the government had not made contact with colleagues and others around and started serious cooperation in examining what can be done and what cannot be done. But it is clear that when you try to create a fundamental and fundamental new structure in a system that has been dysfunctional for decades, it is not something you do overnight. The government hasn't even been sitting for a year, and that's why I think it's too early to judge this vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151043	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151107	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for raising this important question. The question was originally supposed to have been made in mid-March, but the closure of Denmark has postponed it until now. Of course, I would have preferred to see no discussion like this at all, but the reality is different. Erdogan has opened the border, and it is really sad, not least for the thousands of refugees who are now tempted to risk their lives by embarking on a very uncertain and dangerous journey towards a Europe where there is no room for them. The United Nations estimates in March that a total of 13 000 people are trying to enter Greece and thus enter the European Union via Turkey. It is estimated that in mid-April 100,000 refugees were stranded in Greece. When this debate is so important, it is because right now there is a need to strengthen the European coastguard and border guard, and it is of course natural that Denmark supports this work. Right now most of Europe is closed to entry and many countries have closed their borders in an attempt to stop the spread of corona. It has temporarily put an end to the flow of refugees as a result of Erdogan's opening of the border. Perhaps it also puts a stop in some people's minds, that is that there is nothing to talk about here. But it's not like that. The closure of internal borders does not last forever, and at some point we must expect some kind of accumulation in the system where thousands of refugees move from Greece up through Europe and Denmark. That is the challenge we must take seriously in here. We cannot wait for the EU budget to fall into place until we have men guarding the EU's borders. Action must be taken. We must take care of Denmark. That is why, last time we were in government, the Left introduced an asylum emergency brake. The emergency brake means that, in a situation where the pressure on the Dublin system is too great and cooperation has therefore effectively ceased to function, Denmark will be able to reject asylum seekers in the event of entry from a safe country. In the Left, we naturally support the government making use of the emergency brake if necessary. We also expect the government to be working right now to prepare the relevant authorities so that we can pull the asylum emergency brake at very short notice if there is a situation where there is a need for it. We need to get the EU's external border under control. If the Heads of State or Government of the European Union do not act now, we risk facing such a situation as the one we stood in 2015. We must avoid that. And instead of using energy for an unrealistic project to set up a reception centre outside Europe, the Socialist Government must take responsibility, because we simply cannot wait for something that no-one, or at best very, very long-term prospects, have. Instead, the government, together with the other European Heads of State or Government, must work hard to ensure that the agreements we have in this area are respected, including the agreement with Turkey, which is clearly not being respected, as we had expected when it was concluded. Then I would like to suggest to the government that it should continue to work towards realising the vision paper that the VLAK government entered into with Austria. The point here was precisely to ensure that asylum seekers seek asylum in the first safe country and therefore should not be able to walk through several safe countries before they start their asylum application. It is the right solution for Denmark, it is the right solution for Europe. In those words, on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark and Europe are facing a migration challenge where 100,000 refugees are stranded in Greece. Parliament notes that there is still support for the humanitarian aid that Denmark has contributed to Greece's refugee camps and to Greece's strengthening of the EU's external borders. The Folketing instructs the government to secure the EU's external border and, together with the Heads of State or Government of the EU, to work to ensure compliance with the Turkey Agreement. The Folketing also instructs the government to continue its efforts to implement the vision paper of the former bourgeois government with Austria to ensure that asylum seekers seek asylum in the first safe country. Finally, the Danish Parliament instructs the government to prepare for the activation of the emergency brake so that, at one day's notice, we can allow it to enter into force if the influx rises. V 78).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151536	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151549	Dealing with the flows of refugees in the world is a complex matter for all parties and governments. In the Radical Left, we take the view that, of course, a country such as Denmark should be able to receive refugees, allow them to be in a country other than the country from which they flee. Conversely, it is also clear what several rapporteurs have mentioned that we cannot allow all refugees to come to Denmark either. Nor should we let all people who want to go to Denmark to seek a better life come to Denmark. As we see it, the safest way to have control over migratory flows and flows of refugees in the world is to join international cooperation, trying to regulate that sort of thing. We do not believe that we in Denmark can resign from the world and then sit for ourselves and control everything. We do not think this is the right thing to do either, because we have a responsibility, including to those who have to flee a dictator in Syria, for example. That is why we believe that European cooperation should be fully integrated into governing and regulating the external borders of the European Union. That is also why we think it is wise for Denmark to join the quota refugee system, because there, together with other countries in the world, you can define who are refugees in the vicinity and then receive a certain number. That is also why we think it is wise for Denmark to participate in an active foreign policy where we can help prevent and stop people having to flee at all. It may be with soft initiatives, such as aid from developing countries, which try to rebuild and build democracies, so that people are not badly treated by a dictator and therefore have to flee; it may also be with more harsh means, where military intervention is required to ensure that there is no abuse of populations. So: A balance where you both take care that some people have to come to Denmark and have opportunities to commit themselves, but also demand that you learn Danish and behave properly, try to work etc., but at the same time also that we go along with other countries to prevent people from fleeing, and also to regulate refugee flows. On behalf of the SF, Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, I shall make the following, which is an exact copy of what is in the understanding paper that we have agreed with the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government should actively seek to resolve the refugee and migrant crisis in an internationally binding cooperation in which Denmark must play an active role and respect international conventions at all times. Historically many people are on the run. However, the current asylum system works far from being fair or appropriate. This is among other things. helping to support an industry of traffickers who exploit the disaster of others and where many refugees are subjected to violence and abuse or lose their lives on the journey across the Mediterranean. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is actively seeking international access to a future and more humane asylum system within applicable international law. In view of the current level of residence permits for asylum and family reunification, the Danish Parliament notes that already in 2019 the government started to receive a small group of special treatment-intensive quota refugees and that the reception of quota refugees with a special focus on women and children can be resumed in 2020. V 79).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151948	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602151951	Thank you. I could understand that the proposal for adoption was a transcript of the understanding paper... so it is interesting if it cannot be adopted here in the Folketing. Anyway, it's gonna be exciting to see. I just want to try to understand how things are going between the government and the parliamentary basis. One of the things that has puzzled many of us in this debate is that the ceiling on which the Social Democratic Party went to elections should be fixed, how many non-western immigrants would come to Denmark every year, has not been tried to implement the two economic agreements that have now been made with the municipalities, and that is where they have otherwise written that they would seek to introduce it. That's why I just got the idea about it, among other things. the Radicals who have told the Social Democrats that they did not want that. Because I am not assuming that the Radical Left thinks there should be such a ceiling or have I understood it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152036	That's right. We think it is rather strange to agree with the municipalities, where many Danish citizens can get in, for example, spouses from Thailand or Russia, so we do not support that. But I can also say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that I know and now I'm only one of the great radical parliament group we haven't been involved in the municipal negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152102	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152104	I just want to thank you very much for your answer. For it is clear that if it were so and was joking that the Social Democratic Party had actually tried to implement it, but had been blocked by its parliamentary basis, it could of course be one matter. But now it turns out that it is the Social Democrats who, of their own free will, did not want to take it up with the municipalities in the municipal negotiations, and this shows even more clearly that they have not tried to fulfil that electoral promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152132	It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's conclusion is that he must draw it as he wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152138	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152141	I just wanted to comment briefly on it a little, I don't know if it was a teasing remark from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Social democracy is completely on the goal of understanding paper. We're just saying, every thing in its time. And we had another proposal for a proposal for adoption, so it is completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152157	I don't think that was a question for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152204	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152207	After all, it is not for us to botanise in this way what is going on between the government and its parliamentary support parties. However, it might nevertheless be interesting to hear what the Radical Left will do or vote, or how they will act in the event that what the Government says is a realistic plan, so that it is also presented. Can the Radical Left live with us voting through this? Because there's a majority if only the government would stand up and get it settled. - Sir... Mr Steenberg has raised a bit of a veil on how to look at the parliamentary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152242-2	Now I hope I live on no matter what is voted in here. However, it is difficult to decide on an asylum system, a new asylum system, which we do not know what is. So I cannot answer the question when I do not know what to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152259	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152300	I believe that what a large majority here in Christiansborg is dreaming of is the transfer of the entire asylum system to a safe third country. It could be Morocco or Tunisia or some other place where an asylum seeker either finds himself himself or is moved to, after which he will have his or her case dealt with, yes or no, and if that becomes a yes, you will find another third country where he or she can probably be. It would just be nice to hear whether the Radical Left can see itself in such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152324	I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration must now correct me if I remember wrongly saying at some point that he wants all refugees in the world to be distributed via the quota refugee system, because then you will have to define who are refugees, right at the root of the conflict, so that people do not have to go through all this migration and dangerous travel. I fully support that. Surely it would be very good if we could say that there are a lot of refugees here, and they are refugees and not migrants, and then we could distribute them among countries. I share that vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152358	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mr President. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152407	Thank you. Today we are debating what measures can limit migrant and asylum influx to Denmark, particularly from Turkey. In the first place, a noisy spectator could say that it was perhaps a dubious strategy to start paying off a closed border in Turkey. Having said that, I think that today's debate is really about the wider issue of our dysfunctional asylum system, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech. There is no reason for me to repeat here from the platform what all the spokesmen of foreigners from all parties have repeated in the media, namely that the asylum system is unfair, does not provide adequate protection, finances a mafia of traffickers and so on. What I will instead try to talk about is which solutions I think there is shamefully little focus on. Most people like to talk about help in the neighbourhoods, which I and the SF very much agree with is an imperative, although I still have the benefit of seeing the Left and the party's friends in the blue block explain what exactly they think when they say it. As you know, action speaks more than words, and the main contribution of the Left to the neighbourhood has been the war that destabilised many of the regions we are talking about when we talk about the flow of refugees, and to withdraw money from aid to the so-called neighbourhoods and instead spend it on the reception of refugees in Denmark. But there are also solutions that the blue block does not talk about at all. I am thinking in particular of the fact that, although there is a great deal of criticism about an asylum system based on spontaneous asylum, which, with a deeply inappropriate incentive structure, encourages hasty travel towards Europe, it was one's own minister in the form of Mrs Inger Købberg who suspended the only humane and functional alternative to spontaneous asylum, namely the quota refugee system. And here I have to admit that I do not understand all those who are talking about changing the incentives in the system, but at the same time helping to undermine the only alternative that we have to spontaneous asylum. For 30 years, we have coated the Danish reception for asylum with patches and ill-thought-out hoof frames. I recognise that the international asylum system cannot be reformed tomorrow, and that is why I also have patience with the government with regard to the establishment of reception centres in third countries, for example. However, I do not understand how we are constantly among the only countries that have been actively involved in the scheme in the past, which continue to contribute to undermining the only real solution we have. I do not have the final answer to how we get ourselves out of the morass we've come into with President Erdogan. But I'm really tired of just looking at the nearest hill instead of planning the entire route. And here, in my view, the first step towards a fairer asylum system is to restore Danish participation in the quota refugee regime, so that we can regain credibility and push again in international negotiations for an asylum system that helps the weakest first and does not cost lives in the Mediterranean. Finally, I should just like to say that, with those words, the SF intends to support the proposal for adoption that was presented earlier, together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. I see this as particularly strong because it stresses the need for the quota refugee regime. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152730	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152734	I just want to ask you something about how the SF would actually like to solve the task if we look at the role of the European Union in it. I understand that the SF is in favour of creating a system of solidarity in the SF's distribution system, which would then have to distribute the refugees to the countries of Europe. How does the rapporteur really think that this will be done in relation to popular understanding of such a system if countries, against their own will, have a number of refugees or migrants dragged over their heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152812	It is not, of course, against their own will in that we form part of international cooperation, which is also binding. And I think it is actually a number of countries today, including in Europe, which do not take the necessary responsibility for resolving the refugee crisis, so I think it is actually fair enough that we jointly impose requirements on each other as countries and say: that is how we make the most fair model, but that is also how we ensure the best integration, so that individual countries do not lift a huge part of the responsibility while others do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152846	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152849	In addition to the fact that a country seems to me to have the right to find out for itself who is going to your country, you can also assess it here, in terms of what kind of reaction you get. I'm telling you, sir. Carl Valentin is not saying that there will be quite a strong popular resistance if you are told in a country that you now have to take a number of migrants? That is one of the things that we have seen people have reacted sharply to, that is, if immigration has not been managed • I think as DFs, that it is right, because I think it is horrible that one can imagine such a thing. Anyway, it must be included in Mr. Carl Valentin and SF's assessments when considering the common sense of such a proposal, which means dragging a number of migrants over the heads of a country's population.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602152933	It is clear that there can then be an unpleasant atmosphere in some countries, and there will also be some groups and parties that will help to whip up such a mood. I just think that the problems of integration and cohesion will become greater if we do not resolve the situation in a way in which we distribute the refugees fairly. That is why I think it is important for us to be part of binding communities and to distribute the refugees well, because that is the best way to ensure coherence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153000	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153005	I thought this reception centre was supposed to be the most unrealistic proposal for a future refugee policy one could hear, but now I understand that we can easily make overbids in that account. Everyone who has followed this area knows at least that creating a common distribution key across the EU is a complete Fatamorgana that will never be realized. But I would just like to say that if we now imagined that something that no political support exists throughout Europe is being realised, is it the SF's position that a country like Denmark should be forced upon by the European Union a number that come to the external border and then distributed to Denmark? Is it SF's view that it is in Brussels that the influx to Denmark is controlled, and not here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153057	Now I think we are talking about a very hypothetical situation. So I agree with the rapporteur that it looks really, really difficult. However, it is clear that I would prefer that we agreed in international contexts on how to distribute refugees in general. In other words, it is a problem when countries block their joint responsibility, and that is why I believe that we should cooperate internationally on it. However, we are also very open to reception centres in third countries. Of course we need to see a concrete model, but we think that is also a sensible way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153132	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153134	I must have expressed myself unclearly, because what I am asking is: is there a key that has been laid down in the SF, which determines how many people are coming to Denmark? So, can it be that every 20 refugees coming to Europe's external border should we take? Do you have such a number for it in the SF? If a million people come to Europe, we have to take a percentage of them. What number is it that SF is counting on us to take in this slightly unrealistic scenario where you could agree on such a policy? How many should we take in that key?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153210	Of course, we do not have a complete plan for that. First of all, I think we should work on the arrangements we now have. Right now we have the quota refugee system, and that is also why I point out that the most important thing we need to do to lift our share of international responsibility is to receive 500 quota refugees, and I hope that Denmark will soon do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153229	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153240	Thank you. Since the beginning of 2016, at the price of a great many billion euros, the European Union has left it to Turkey's capricious President Erdogan to ensure that not too many asylum seekers entered the European Union by crossing the Aegean Sea or by crossing the Turkish-Greek border. That agreement broke down at the beginning of 2020 when Erdogan decided to use refugees as a tool to bother EU countries because he was dissatisfied with the EU countries' attitude to Turkey's warfare in Turkey and wanted to have many more billions of euros. The Conservative Government in Athens reacted by suspending the right to seek asylum and by pushing both the refugee convention and the Convention on the Law of the Sea back from Greek to Turkish territorial waters. A Danish patrol boat working under the EU Border Agency, Frontex, based on the Greek island of Kos, was involved in an episode of 33 boat refugees on 2 March of this year in the early morning. The Greek command ordered the 33 people to be put in the dinghy and pushed back to Turkish waters. The patrol boat's Danish captain opposed the order, and he deserves praise for it. He noted that the order was contrary to the contractual obligations of Denmark and Greece as well. In this way, a Danish captain helped create a small element of legality in a chaos of human rights violations and violations of conventions that prevailed and, in part, still rule at the Greek-Turkish sea and land borders. It is well documented that at least two refugees have been killed by shots from Greek border guards at the Turkish-Greek border at the beginning of March this year. At the specific incident at Kos on 2 March, a Danish captain could contribute to respect for the rules, but in general it is problematic that Denmark contributes to Frontex efforts in and by Greece when it is so well documented that human rights are violated and there is a breach of the convention. The Enhedslisten has asked the government in several committee questions whether it will continue to support Greek action regardless of the Greek methods and the many violations of human rights. For that, the government has replied that it wants the government. Recently, it has even announced on 14 May that it is increasing its contribution to the Frontex effort on the Turkish-Greek border by a helicopter. The more Denmark increases its efforts in guarding the Greek border, the greater the risk of Denmark becoming an accomplice to human rights violations. The authors of this debate, representing all five right-wing parties, see it as the main objective to protect the Danish border from what is called the threatening flow of refugees and migrants. In the Enhedslisten we would also like, very much, that we should help the more than 70 million people globally who are on the run. It is also our task, and what helps them, is neither to shoot at them, to push them back into their boats against the Turkish coast, to build new border fences or to pay even more billions of euros to Erdogan. It's not going to solve any problems. Instead, the answer must be to contribute to the creation of long-term, sustainable development, peace, jobs, housing and infrastructure in the neighbourhood, while at the same time contributing to the respect of human rights, both at the EU's external borders and towards the small minority of asylum seekers who should reach Denmark all the way. The Enhedslisten can support the proposal for adoption that Mr. Andreas Steenberg read out, and I would also add that the quota refugee system would be a very good way of helping these people and solving the refugee problems we are facing. So let us now take more quota refugees than those we are taking today and let us make a fair distribution of asylum seekers in Europe, because I fully agree that the system as it is today is not working and I do not think it is fair or reasonable that we have parked the bill for all the people who are on the run in those countries which happen to have the external borders of the European Union, for example. Greece. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153733	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153735	Thank you, Mrs Lund, for the rapporteur's speech. I saw something I think it was in Politiken. Sometimes you're quoted as something that doesn't really hold water. That is why I thought it would be fair enough to give Mrs Rosa Lund the chance here to correct herself. There was something in this article in Politiken. It related to the situation in 2015 and what we are discussing today, and to the number that came, which was quite large indeed. But in that article Mrs Rosa Lund is quoted as answering a question. If five times as many people came to the Danish border, should we take these people in and deal with their asylum applications? And then Mrs. Rosa Lund answers yes. And if we now say that in 2015 such a couple and twenty thousand came, then if there are five times that many, at least we have passed 100,000. We should then take them in and we should examine their asylum applications. It is just to ask Mrs Rosa Lund: is that realistic? Is this really a scenario in which Mrs Rosa Lund thinks that would be the situation? Or should we do something in advance to ensure that those people never come to Denmark's border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153837	Well, I would like to confirm that I have said those things to Politiken. This is because I believe that we must respect our contractual obligations, both the Convention on Refugees and the Convention on Human Rights. It has to be the case that if you come to Denmark, you have to have examined your asylum application. And I'm not going to stand here and put on a number. It was Politiken's journalist, so kindly that you might be able to discuss it. That does not alter the fact that I think that we should anticipate that situation, for example. by helping in the outlying areas, e.g. by ensuring that our development aid is much stronger than it is today, for example. by taking more quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153918	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153919	But if there are 100,000 people, for example. At the Danish-German border and wishing to apply for asylum in Denmark, it is certainly not the expression of any international conventions that require us to accept those people. What are these conventions? Is that the refugee convention? I mean, if you come from Germany, you come from a safe country. Are we under any obligation under the Refugee Convention to deal with these people's cases? No, we're not. It's something we decide for ourselves if we want to. So it is after all Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten who think it is a very good idea that, if necessary, we should start the proceedings of 100 000 people, migrants, cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602153959	Well, that's a very thoughtful situation, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because there are not 100,000 people. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's own policy somehow also helped to ensure. It is very difficult to obtain a residence permit in Denmark. So I think it's a little fictitious. But to answer the question, if you as a refugee are not registered in Germany, but Denmark is the first country in which you are registered, then we are actually obliged to process the asylum application, and I think we should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154029	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154032	I cannot understand why Mrs Rosa Lund calls this a hypothetical or a thoughtful situation. So, five years ago, Denmark was in the situation that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl describes that suddenly and in a very short time a very large group of people simply wandered through Europe. At that time we had a bourgeois government supported by the Danish People's Party, and that is why we immediately got border controls in place, we tightened up immigration legislation, we took a series of initiatives to get the situation under control. That is why it cannot be ruled out that it will happen again. Unfortunately, this is a troubled world in which we live, and now that we have a new government, it would be nice to know how the parliamentary support parties of the government view that situation. Therefore, I would like to know whether Mrs Rosa Lund will confirm that if there are suddenly 1,000 or 10,000 or more migrants in Germany and want to enter Denmark, Enhedslisten will also agree that they are in a safe third country and will not have to enter Denmark and deal with any matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154128	I can start by saying that we regard ourselves as a parliamentary basis for the government... the support party is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's own words. That's one thing. The second thing is that I am not going to stand here and put a concrete figure on it, because I do not think you can go because what about the next one coming? I believe that we have an obligation to help people who are on the run, and I also believe that we have an obligation to help the other countries of Europe. We cannot park the bill or park people just because it happens to be Greece that has the utmost limits. That means Greece will break over. That is why there has to be a fairer distribution, and I cannot stand here and answer exactly what that number is, although I can sense that it is a game, sir. Morten Messerschmidt really wants to play.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154217	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154218	In other words, at some point the Enhedslisten must also realise that the whole idea of entering Europe to seek asylum is insanely inhumane and for the benefit of traffickers. But that's not what I want to ask. What I really want to arrest is what I did not get an answer to, namely that if there is a place and if Mrs Rosa Lund cannot relate to the number 10,000, let us just say 50 or 50 non-EU citizens in Germany in front of the Danish border, who say they want to enter Denmark and have asylum, does Mrs Rosa Lund agree that those people should not enter Denmark because they are already in a safe third country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154256	That depends on whether they are registered in Germany. Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt in that the system we have today favours some smugglers. This is one of the things we all really want to do, but I feel that if you are entitled to asylum and you apply for it in Denmark, you must also have it in Denmark. But we must also go there where it is far from all those who come and apply for asylum who are then entitled to it. But all those who are entitled to it must, of course, be granted asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154326	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154343	Thank you, President. I am glad to hear that the Prime Minister agrees with the purpose of the blue parties' question today, but at the same time we hear the Prime Minister agree with the understanding paper that the Social Democratic Party has concluded with the Red parties. And that sums up a little in my view the situation we are facing: one day the Social Democrats say one thing, and the next day they say the other. You want to continue the tight asylum policy of the Blue Government, but you relax the refugee policy you have done here a week ago so that in future it will be possible for refugees to stay in Denmark if they have a job here in Denmark, even if there is peace in their country of origin. The elections were also held at reception centres in North Africa, but not so much has happened here a year later. So I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling for this debate, because I think we need to hold the Social Democratic Party accountable for the promises that are made but are not fully fulfilled. I sincerely hope that in a year's time we will be able to stand here again for this debate, and I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister will then be able to tell us a little more about this reception centre in North Africa. I really hope that will be a reality. But if it is not established, I think that the Social Democratic Party owes the Danes a good explanation of the things you have explained you would do, but which have not quite come to be real. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154510	There is a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154514	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth for the speech. It was short and precise. I just think I would like to correct a factual error, because the Social Democrats are firmly committed to the immigration policy that we have also, to a large extent, jointly implemented with the paradigm shift. The rules on residence permits • including permanent residence • the rules on how to obtain citizenship, family reunification rules, etc. Isn't that right? Marcus Knuth did not partly confirm this and then possibly also confirm that the arrangement, as Mr. Marcus Knuth talks about and, as we had a debate on the other day, did not a single refugee actually take advantage of it when the corresponding regime was last in force?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154550-2	This is a really good question, because when we had that debate, the Radical Left, as I remember it, called the scheme that the rapporteur calls a business regime, and which we others call a massive relaxation of the immigration policy, because refugees can now work to stay in Denmark, a fight with the paradigm shift. So we have the Social Democrat who says: we are holding onto the paradigm shift. And then we have in the Radical Left, the government's support party, who says that the bill is a clash with the paradigm shift. And that is exactly what I am saying here: one minute it is one, and the next minute it is the other, and it cannot possibly be both at once. So I insist that it is a relaxation of asylum policy when one opens up that refugees can work their way to permanent residence in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154636	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154637	Sir. Marcus Knuth, we have different types of business arrangements. We now have a new one which is long-term, we have some that are subject to training and we have some that are income-related. And the reality is that if Mr. Marcus Knuth's desire for a lower limit of money was realized, it would be a massive opening for people from the Third World to come to Denmark without further ado. The system we are talking about here presupposes that we have been working for two years in advance. When it was last in force, not one with a refugee background took advantage of it. Will Mr. Marcus Knuth doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154711-2	We saw very clearly during the refugee crisis in 2015 with the flows of asylum, which wandered across Europe, that the countries where there were the most lenient conditions could be sought, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. And the asylum facilitation that we discussed the other day, which makes it possible for refugees to stay in Denmark if they have a job, even if there is peace in the country of origin, makes everything else a little more relaxed, and that is why it is a clear asylum facilitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154745	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602154755	My message today is simple and clear. If we in Denmark want to know who we are letting into our country, we must introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark. There's no other way. There are no other solutions, and no one else solves the problems for us, we are the only ones to do so. Looking back at the failed immigration policy of the last decades and the damage it has done to our society, it is incomprehensible to me that even parties who say they have become wiser adhere to an asylum policy which undoubtedly increases the problems rather than reduces them. Instead of an asylum stop, the government and the EU-happy parties on the blue side have appointed the Turkish Islamist President Erdogan as a border officer... a border guard who, against a hefty payment, I would call it bribery, must defend us against illegal immigrants, Islamic terrorists and ordinary crime, violence and all the other ills that come with migrants from Muslim countries across our borders. It is such a bad idea that it is a mystery to me that otherwise sensible Danish politicians as members of parliament in this Chamber can persuade themselves to continue down the slopes. Now is the time to say no, now is the time for Erdogan to be told clearly: no more bribery for you from us. As long as the bribe money is paid and today it is close to 50 billion. kr., which Erdogan has received from European taxpayers to promote his Islamic empire, so long has it gone, but not anymore. More wants more, and Erdogan's about to tighten the screw. He makes clear political demands for Europe to support his empire building in order to spread his own power in the Middle East. Apparently, the Kurds must be able to oust and parts of Syria must be occupied. And if we do not back up, he threatens to release migrants in Greece and Bulgaria. We are subject to simple policy of power, where diplomacy is backed up by first threats and then action. Blackmail never ends once you give in. It keeps going until you've delivered everything you've got. We should never have said yes the first time. It was another accident on top of so many others for which we can thank Angela Merkel and the European Union. The migration crisis in 2015 and 2016 should have taught us at least one lesson: We have to solve our problems ourselves. No one comes and does it for us, and unless we act and protect ourselves, our borders and our society, the next wave of migrants will hit us as hard as the first one. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the parties of the Folketing to realise that a full stop to spontaneous asylum is the only way forward. Erdogan is not part of the solution, the EU is not part of the solution, because they are both part of the problem. New citizens, together with DF, have produced a text for adoption which has previously been read by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and I expect that will be enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602155127	It's okay, it's okay. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602155136	Thank you for the floor. There are several rapporteurs who have already used their speaking time to highlight the difficulties of setting up a reception centre for asylum seekers somewhere near Europe but outside the borders of the continent. And it is true that this reception centre is a bit like the peaceful use of fusion energy; it is always a fixed number of years in the future, because no matter when you talk about it, it is 20 years in the future. In other words, I do not believe that the reception centre can be set up for the first few years, and that is why I will not spend more time highlighting the difficulties of the project. I will use my speaking time on another track. I think it is necessary to establish, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also made in his question to Mrs Rosa Lund that what we are talking about is migration. In practice, there are no people coming to Denmark who have not passed through several safe countries, and in that case you are per. definition not refugee, but pr. definition migrant. There are a lot of people who have been wrong over the years in all these discussions. I am not going to mention them, but I would like to mention a professional group that usually hits right, and that is the demographers. If you go all the way back to the 1990s, demographers like Eyvind Vesselbo and P. C. Matthiessen could predict the development up to today with a precision that you must be immensely impressed with, because these projections are simply in the closet, as they say. At that time, of course, their figures were contested, but history has given them the right to do so, and at least Vesselbo is still alive and can rejoice that he was counting correctly. If we look ahead in time, if we were theoretically to imagine completely closed borders, we would see that the population of the major migrant countries in Denmark in 2050 would be approx. 8 per cent; says the American Pew Research Centre. If developments from 2015 had continued, the population of the major migrant countries by 2050 would be approx. 16%, and with the scenario called business as usual, we look into something called approx. 12% What you need to know about migration to the extent that from the countries we are talking about is that it is what I wish I had a nice word for, but I cannot find a beautiful word, so I just call it disruptive. But that is disruptive, because it changes our country into something qualitatively different. It introduces new rules of the game and it introduces a new reality. You can already see it in Sweden today, because the Malmö region has been experiencing disruptive social, economic and political changes, because it is qualitatively different and, in the opinion of most people, it has become worse than what it was 25 years ago. Disruption from migration from the Middle East includes Islamist radicalisation... we need to spend a lot of time on already changed crime profiles, pressure on civil rights and women's rights, and one thing that we do not often talk about here in the Folketing, right-wing extremism. There are no parties in the Chamber that are near being extreme right, as I understand right-wing extremism, because we are talking about real right-wing extremism. And that is the worst thing about migration: it promotes right-wing extremism in Europe. That is why, as has been shown with the corona epidemic, proportionality is a concept that works both ways. If the thing you're up against is big enough, things that seem disproportional aren't disproportional anyway. I also think we should start by looking at the proportions of this disruption and saying that this disruption is undesirable, we don't want it. We must reject migration and insist that Europe's borders be closed because, if there is to be a disruption of Danish society, it must of course be provided for in a desire of the people, and it is not. I welcome the adoption that we support together with V and K, and I am very pleased with these important debates that we have, because I always think they are wiser. With those comments, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602155624	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we now move on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602155637	Thank you for a good debate. I came to think of the time when my mother was a little girl and Denmark received 1,000 refugees from Hungary in 1956, and that we later received 1,000 families from Chile after the coup in 1973 and that same year received a number of boat refugees, as it is called, from Vietnam. There was the conclusion that those people actually fell very well into Danish society; we are not here discussing Hungarian parallel societies, or how the Chileans take a negative turn in crime statistics. And so perhaps it was no wonder that in 1983 without the great discussion, without the great battles of swords, what was then called the world's most open alien law was adopted. Since then, we have had both refugees and immigrants from other countries, including the Middle East, and from here it has proved a little more difficult to integrate people, not to say much harder. Too many have been convicted of crime, astoundingly many, if you get the figures. Too many children grow up without seeing Mom go to work. Too many do not support fundamental democratic rights such as equality, freedom of expression, religious criticism. And when people do not become an active part of our society, it challenges the cohesion of Denmark, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. But the will to show community mind, to go an extra mile for other fellow citizens, is undermined if we do not have a real experience of actually being in the same boat. And in my own lifetime, it's gone fast. Well, when I was born in 1981, it was 1%. of the population who had roots in a non-Western country. Now we're getting close to 10%. of newborns who are either born of a descendant or an immigrant from a non-western country. This is a rather wild development in population composition, and the strange thing would be if there were no popular debate on it. It is quite natural, of course, that this is being discussed, not just in Denmark, but in all the European countries where this change has taken place. In relation to the foreign policy debate, which has filled something in all the time I have been interested in politics, there has been a characteristic which has at least interested me, namely that it seems as if the scepticism about an open alien law, about immigration, about liberal rules in this area is greater among the people who earn the least, who live in non-profit residential areas, who have children in primary schools, where there are many other children with a foreign background. For many years we were discussing whether it was because they were racists there is something they have not understood; should we launch a campaign? Or were they just standing there with their legs in real life? In the Social Democratic Party we have long since concluded the latter, and this is the basis of the government's immigration policy; those people were not wrong. This is also the basis of our refugee policy. I would like to emphasise, even after today's debate: it is government policy that we want to help more refugees • our ambition is not to help fewer refugees. But we can help more and we can help better with a new asylum system. The current asylum system means enormous costs for people who have no need of protection at all. One rejected asylum seeker one To one person who has been dealt with his asylum case, has been made available to a lawyer, has been in two bodies, has been on the Refugee Board, and where a judge has knocked on the table in accordance with all the principles of the rule of law we have said: No, you do not need protection. If the person afterwards says that he or she does not want to go home, he or she can, for example, say that he or she does not want to go home. stay at the Excursion Centre Kærshovedgård, and then the cost of one person is the same as for 800 home help hours and blankets and vaccines for 600 children. Actually, I think we agree on that here in space. And that is why I have no doubt that it was right that we supported Greece in keeping the border a few months ago when this debate was called for. It is quite low-practical; it is in relation to material, people and economy. That was the right thing to do, because the Greek border with Turkey is also the Danish border. We must not stand here and wait for them to knock on the Danish door. We must help the Greeks to hold the door of Europe. That is why I have no doubt that we must strengthen cooperation with third countries outside Europe to deal with migration, as we are now doing with Tunisia and Rwanda. In Tunisia, it is about helping them to keep their borders, among others. Algeria, and in Rwanda, it is about the resettlement of very vulnerable asylum seekers and refugees who have ended up in some of these truly terrible detention centres in Libya and giving them a future in an African country. I really think this is commendable, and I think that as a European country, which Denmark must support. That is why I would also like to emphasise that the government is ready to use the tools of the Aliens Act, such as: Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned. This means that if we end up in a situation again, that is to say if we end up in a situation where Dublin cooperation has actually collapsed, we will not hesitate; then the emergency brake in the toolbox is for a reason and it must be possible to initiate it. It's not just for decoration. It has been quite obvious to me, when I have followed this debate, that Corona has not cancelled the differences in foreign policy in this Chamber. Maybe I didn't quite expect that either. But I would also like to say that the attentive listener, the attentive viewer, may also have noticed that there is a common recognition here in the Folketing that the asylum system needs some more fundamental changes. In fact, I think that is a good basis for further discussions and further work, even if we do not fully agree on the details of all the conclusions. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602160315	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602160340	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. We have been around a little, and there are several rapporteurs who have also said that it is important that Parliament has this type of debate, where we take the time to discuss the refugee and migrant issue, although we do come from different parts of the debate. Much of the debate has focused on the issue of realism in that a new reception centre is to be located outside the EU and must make up for the possibility of spontaneously seeking asylum in Denmark, on the basis that if you have such a reception centre, the people who come to Denmark to apply for asylum will be sent to the reception centre and deal with their case there. The derived effect it may have may have as I think Mr. Stoklund mentioned that there are fewer people who come in the first place if you know you come to such a reception centre. I think the debate has illustrated that most parties really think that it would be quite fine if we could get things moving quickly so that we can resolve the situation and the completely untenable fact that we can spontaneously seek asylum here in Denmark far away from where people really come from. But I also believe that it is clear from today's debate that the government has not been able to provide any evidence that it is in the pipeline. On the contrary, it smells a bit like this is a long-term project, as I think Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned in the introduction to his excellent rapporteur's speech from up here a moment ago. I came to think of the article I think it was from 21 January, when a journalist had asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration when this came up and about realism in it and so on. etc. But there the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration says, among other things:: Easy now, we've only been sitting for six months. Well, he's pulling the card with the government only sitting for six months. Today one could have drawn the map, that now one has been sitting for almost a year, and we have not come a step closer. That is why you have to look at the fact that until this becomes something in the real world or we see that it is only a Fatamorgana that has been put in front of the Danish people. Here the waters begin to split up in the Folketing, because we are some people who say: Well then you have to make up the possibility that you can walk through perhaps 6-7 safe countries to get to Denmark's border and then withdraw the asylum card. Then you have to do away with the right and the possibility that, after you have passed through so many safe countries, you can come to Denmark and spontaneously seek asylum. And the government and its majority do not want to hear that, because this is where the Convention card or the Dublin Regulation card is drawn and so on. and say that Denmark is obliged to live up to all these rights and thus treat people's asylum applications in Denmark, regardless that for some of the government's support parties it even goes so far that if there were to be five times as many as in autumn 2015, then you just have to get to work. And if we say there were a few and twenty thousand in the autumn of 2015, then more than 100,000 people would have to start processing asylum here in Denmark. Well, you can say that this is not something that will happen tomorrow, but the fact is that with the pressure that I have already mentioned in my motivation for the question, it is a scenario that can well come true. In other words, when we are talking about an African continent going from 1.2 billion people to an expected 2.4 billion by 2050, a Middle East that is growing, people who want to move away, and more and more people who may also have the opportunity to try to move away economically, there is no indication whatsoever that the pressure on Europe and, for that matter, Denmark's borders will be reduced in the future. That is why we need to say that another solution needs to be found. If you agree with Mr. Mr Dahl. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Clearly, what do you set yourself in motion for? It is, of course, the hope that you will have a permanent stay in a country such as Denmark. That is what makes it possible to embark on a risky journey, for example. Over an ocean to try your luck. If you know in advance that this is not an option, it is clear that fewer will try. And there will also be fewer suffering death along the way, which is why it can actually be the real answer to how we help more people in need. There I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration mentioned some of the right things in the last part of his answer, where he did what the relationship really is, i.e. what one who stays stuck in the Danish system, for example. At Kærshovedgård, even if you should have been sent out of the country, can burden financially and what that money could have been spent on instead. It is 800 home help hours and relief in the form of blankets and vaccines for 600 children. Then it's all in relief, because this isn't about whether you want to help or not. It's about how to help people in need not by changing the Danish society, but by really using the resources we set aside to help people in need to help local people in the vicinity instead of people moving here to Denmark. I have to say with regard to the emergency brake, as several speakers have said, that there we will of course keep the government firm on the promises that have been made, also in relation to keeping an alert at the border, which means that it can be implemented on a very, very short basis. I would remind you that the emergency brake was a measure that came as a result of the 2017 Finance Act, in which the Danish People's Party and the then government agreed that it was one of the initiatives, in addition to border controls, that were needed for us to be better off in the future than we were in 2015. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the fact that we are going to the polls on some things that we would like to see. We all know that as parties. There are then some who win more votes than others; there are some who can sit down on government benches and there are others who come into opposition. That is the condition of democracy, and we must live with it. Now it is the Social Democrats' lot to be the ones sitting on the benches of the governments, but that is a duty. It obliges us to live up to the electoral promises we have made. One thing we have discussed during the debate has been the ceiling on how many non-western foreigners Denmark can accept, as the Social Democratic Party promised in the election campaign as part of its programme to the Danes, the election presentation and the asylum proposal Justice and Realism. In the following it is stated: the Social Democratic Party proposes that the Danish Parliament set a ceiling for how many new non-western foreigners Denmark can accept every year. The ceiling is determined on the basis of negotiations between the government and the municipalities in connection with the annual economic agreements. Then it says something about this reception centre outside Europe. And then it goes on to say: Until it is in place, the reception centre will act as a guide. If the ceiling is exceeded during this temporary period until a reception centre is established, the Folketing undertakes to implement measures to limit the flow to Denmark. • See, if it is to make any sense, we need to know what the ceiling is. Because that is what defines that, if you exceed the ceiling, measures must be taken that limit the flow to Denmark. The question raised in this debate, to which the government has not been able to give an answer, is: why have two economic agreements been implemented so far? two economic agreements during this parliamentary term, without this ceiling becoming part of the economic agreements with the municipalities? We have the Vice-President of the KL, sir. Martin Damms, word for saying that this ceiling has not even been brought up by the government during negotiations with the municipalities. Why not? What is it that has kept the government from applying for this ceiling, so you have a guide? At the beginning of the debate, the Prime Minister said in his reply that it was because there were corona expenses to be dealt with. But excuse me, does the ceiling cost money? Would it have taken negotiating power out of the room or something that would then have to be used to define a ceiling? No, it is purely a question of whether it has been given priority or whether it has not been given priority. And, unfortunately, we can see today that the government has not given priority to this. In this area too, we must encourage the government to live up to its election promise to the Danes and make sure that this ceiling is fixed so that we have something to keep the government up to. It is important for the Danish People's Party that we keep track of immigration, that we know how many people come here, that it is Denmark that decides how many will come, and that we have the tools in our drawer that are necessary to enforce it. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602161323	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 4 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602161338	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 June 2020. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602161419	Thank you, President. A few months ago, the daily press was able to read new figures from the Department of Justice, which show that more and more prisoners in the Danish prisons and detention houses have foreign backgrounds. And it is, in addition to being generally apathetic to the image of foreigners' crime in Denmark and the pressure that it gives in public institutions too, contrary to the very broad desire, I sense that there is here in the Danish Parliament to make sure that foreigners who choose to return the extended hand and welcome that Danish society gives by letting them come in to visit family, to work or perhaps just to enjoy the lovely society that Denmark is must also meet with a consistent and harsh reaction if they commit crime. That is why, of course, it must be done in the country from which the foreigner comes, and not in Denmark, where, in this way, apart from the crime that has been committed, the country is also at fault. And the good news is that under the bourgeois government back in 2006, we actually made an agreement with the then Minister of Justice to look into the possibilities, especially in Eastern Europe, of either renting or otherwise gaining access to prison areas, so that the foreigners who come from there are, unfortunately, a quite considerable proportion of those who choose to commit crime in Denmark. But time passes and new figures show that there are more and more criminal foreigners in Danish prisons and detention houses, and we have not heard much new about the negotiations and their livelihoods, which should therefore lead us to send the criminal foreigners home. It is against this background that the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative for this question debate, where, of course, in a good and positive spirit, I would like to say that I expect the current government to agree in such a way with the intention of getting criminal foreigners out so that they can serve in the country of origin, but where we just need to know where we stand. And that is why, on behalf of the undersigned, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to answer what the heck is going on in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602161722	Then it's the Minister of Justice for answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602161735	Thank you for the floor. It is the government's aim that exiled foreigners should not, as far as possible, serve their sentence in Denmark. If possible, they must be sent to serve in their country of origin and, if that is not possible, they must be placed in prisons outside Denmark. The latter obviously requires that we can make an agreement with a country outside Denmark to rent or buy prison places. The government is therefore working to find foreign prison places that Denmark can rent in order to enable convicted criminals to serve their convictions for crime abroad. This is undoubtedly an issue that I give priority to. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in inmates across the country and therefore far too much evidence in our prisons. That increase also applies to the number of deportees. But we really do have a situation where the stocking rate in Denmark's prisons and detention houses has passed 100, and where we can say in rough figures and in shoe lengths that we have about 4,000 seats, and in about 400 of them there are people who are sentenced to expulsion and who are not really supposed to be in Denmark. That means that if we can go where the government wants us to go, either to serve in their home countries or to serve in another country where we rent seats, we will in fact have solved another problem, namely the problem of overcrowding in our prisons and detention houses at home at the moment. That would be 10%. of the capacity that we wanted to free up. So not only do we want to ensure what we want, namely that those sentenced to expulsion come out of the country and do not put their foot back in this kingdom, but we would also be able to solve the capacity problem that we otherwise have. That is why it is both in our interest, but in fact also in the interests of those sentenced to expulsion, to serve somewhere else, because they should not be reintegrated into Denmark or re-socialised into Danish society. So far, so good. However, as the situation currently stands, it is unfortunately not possible to transfer sentenced people of exile to their country of origin with a view to taking over the execution of prison sentences by the country of origin. After all, the rental of prison places abroad requires that an agreement be reached with one or more partner countries on this. And it is, to put it mildly, not everyday that such agreements are made, and it should not be a secret. I know that there will be a proposal for adoption which will praise the achievements of the previous government in this area... that when I stepped in as Minister of Justice, it was, to put it mildly, not this matter that had been at the top of the previous government's table. There was not enough pressure. Fortunately, that has been changed. I believe that what the previous government did wrong was that it was not sufficiently aware that both countries must of course have an interest in cooperation, just as it is with all sorts of other cooperation. That is where we are wiser, and we have taken that into account. But even there are some issues on which agreement needs to be reached, for example. the rules and conditions applicable to atonement, staff requirements, supervision requirements, the price of places, etc. etc. It is actually a complex debate and it takes time, as I am sure Mr. Morten Messerschmidt noted that this was a wish formulated back in 2006 that my predecessors, who were talented people in the post, have certainly worked with and have been aware of the need to move forward. Then there is that element, and we must bear in mind that this type of agreement is controversial for the recipient country. Let us try to imagine the opposite situation, that is, that we should rent out Danish prison places in order for some others to come and serve their punishment in this country; it is not a dream scenario. That is why, of course, we need to do this with some caution. One might well imagine that the agreement that may be reached requires changes in the law and thus parliamentary support in the recipient country, etc. So if it is to be possible to conclude such an agreement, it is in fact one of the prerequisites that there is confidentiality about it. It has to be said here that this part must be trusted that the government is working with. This does not mean that we should not have a question debate like that today. It's okay. But there is just a number of information that cannot be displayed, because we would then risk researching the purpose of it, namely to set up such prison places. This also means that as long as we are working on a concrete agreement on the rental of prison places abroad, I will not be able to go into the specific circumstances surrounding that agreement. I hope and believe that there is an understanding in this Chamber. Let me repeat: it is a clear priority for the government that convicted criminals should not burden the Danish prison system. We have to, among other things. secure through an agreement on the rental of prison places abroad. Of course, we also need to ensure that people are transferred to serving abroad. There are some figures that show that it could be done better. This has been the case for a long time. And it is clear that this period of covid-19 has made the figure for 2020 not so encouraging at the moment. But that too is being worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162349	There is now the possibility of a brief comment from the general rapporteurs. Britt Baker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162353	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for your statement. I am surprised, despite the fact that this is so advanced that the Minister has not been able to reach such an agreement home yet. Perhaps the Minister should call her good colleague Mrs Trine Bramsen and ask how Mrs Trine Bramsen thinks it should be done, because when Mrs Trine Bramsen was the legal rapporteur, she had the perfect recipe, the perfect recipe. Back in 2015, Mrs Trine Bramsen had solved this problem, which is why I am of course surprised that one year after the Social Democrats have taken over the Ministry of Justice, we have not yet seen a solution. But I'm gonna pass it on to Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup and so just want to know when we'll see a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162451	We do not mention ministers by name, but by their title. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162458	Thank you. Yeah, we're working on it. There are contacts with countries. We are doing everything we can to make the process move forward. So it is a little commonplace here, as in so many other cases, I think, when people jump on the government to make it happen, that nothing is impossible for anyone who doesn't have to do it himself. This also applies, I think, to a little opposition approach to this, and that you are back in that: it is too little, it is too late, it is too badly rhetoric about what is happening. What is important to me is that we actually achieve the goal of establishing these prison places abroad and making the transfer work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162552	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162555	I am not going to go because that would be frivolous, since I have never been as close to as the Minister for Justice judge whether one government has now done more or less than the other. However, there is one thing I note in the speech by the Minister for Justice: the fact that the Minister for Justice seems to be focused on the fact that it should be in the country where the criminal alien comes from that atonement must be done. So, according to us, it doesn't have to be in the Danish People's Party. The only thing we are concerned with is that it just doesn't happen in Denmark. So if, for example, the Minister of Justice... can conclude agreements with a Bulgarian prison to pay for having foreigners serving there, so it should not touch us even if there are Poles, Romanians and Cypriots there. It must be a matter of saying that it is an EU country, and we believe that it meets the fundamental requirements that we normally make for serving, etc., and then it is just going to happen. I would therefore just like to ask the Minister for Justice to confirm that the mandate he is working on is as broad as possible, so that this is about these foreigners not serving in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162702	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162703	Well, if I've been so vague, I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. For there is no doubt that the ambition is to establish prison places abroad. Now I understand that it is important for the Danish People's Party that it should be an EU country, but it does not have to be for us. It has to be another country, it has to be outside Denmark, so that when we have criminal foreigners in Denmark who are sentenced to expulsion, they are transported as soon as possible to a prison facility in another country and do not set foot in the kingdom again. That is the ambition. When the other thing slipped in, of course, it is because there is also the consideration that you can have an agreement that some convicted Romanians can return to serving in Romania, but it is just a different track from the one I am talking about now. But both tracks count.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162800	In this round, there's only one question for the general rapporteur, and then we'll come back to normal. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162807	Thank you. I can be a little worried when I hear the Minister say that this was not something that had the highest priority for the former Minister of Justice. I think that is actually remarkable, since it was quite rhetorical at the time. That is why I can be a little worried about, and I regret my general scepticism about politicians, that we are again trying to talk something out which we may not be able to achieve. Has the Minister himself thought about what a success criterion will be? In other words, will it be during this parliamentary term that one expects or has ambitions to be able to achieve in line with one or more agreements, or does the Minister think that this is something that will happen over a 10-year or 20-year period? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602162911	It is wrong to say that the previous government did not take it seriously. I think what I was trying to communicate was that my impression was that it was possible to press more on when we took over government power. Well, it wasn't like you didn't care, but it could be tightened up, and it happened. We are in contact with a multitude of countries, which gives me hope that something can happen. But my experience of politics and life, by the way, is that what takes no time takes 15 minutes and the rest takes twice as long as you think, and that is why I do not want to say: in one year it will be in place. Then, of course, I could say: in my ministerial hours it is in place but then we are ten years ahead. I have an ambition that it will be in place during this parliamentary term, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163008	Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163009	Thank you. I was also the legal rapporteur during the previous period, and I know and can confirm that the previous government was very concerned about it, including the former Minister of Justice, and there was much, much progress in negotiating with certain countries and almost signing an agreement, but then there was a choice between, and then not much happened. The aim of the question debate here today is to find out: Is there action? Are you okay? Now it is a year since the government took over power, and it is not enough just to say: we are in contact with someone. Are we in real negotiations with certain countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163049	With all due respect, I don't think it was the election that didn't happen. I think, in fact, if we are to come after that, that what happened was that the matter was exposed in the Danish media, that is, that there was mention in December 2018 of the fact that you had these negotiations, unfortunately. Because as I have been able to pursue the case, this meant that the country being negotiated with was significantly more reserved in terms of wanting to continue down that path. And if the understanding I've got is right, then it just confirms the need for confidentiality about this. So I do not think it was the election that did it, but there is no doubt that the fact that the election came has of course meant that the Minister for Justice in the election campaign, and until a new government was formed, could not come forward with this agenda, just as the relationship we have had with the covid situation here has also meant that it has complicated the negotiations somewhat. But there are specific contacts with a multitude of countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163150	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163152	Thank you. I just think that if you believe in principle that people expelled from Denmark should serve in the country to which they have been deported, should you not also bring the people who are Danish citizens but who have been punished for something in another country and whom the other country would like to serve their sentence in Denmark home to serve? I mean, I think it's a little bit double moral that you want to park some deported criminals, but you don't want to take your own criminals home if you can talk about your own criminals. I think the minister understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163233	I fully understand this, and I agree with it in principle, but if it works, we should have a system in which we all agreed in sensible international agreements that as soon as someone is convicted, he or she will be served in the country where he or she is a national or will serve a certain period in the country where he or she is convicted and then transferred. Today there are no such agreements. Today it is pure: Every man is closest to himself. And in the situation where every man is closest to himself, I think that we must also say for Denmark: what are we doing to safeguard Denmark's interests in the best way possible? However, if there was an opportunity to have a regulatory regime in which we said: there is a certain amount of time spent in the country where you have been convicted and then expulsion, and that applies to everyone, and that happens, then I think that would be a better solution for all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163321	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163323	I just want to hear the Minister: when you are working on this, is it a precondition that the international conventions are, of course, respected when you have to rent places elsewhere, but also the international prison rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163343	Of course, we must respect the international conventions that apply. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... some requirements and also international regulation in relation to prison places, sizes, etc. And, of course, such demands must be honoured in the countries with which we may cooperate. It is also one of the things that must be included in such a specific agreement complex, i.e. to find out how it is ensured and how a number of other matters are ensured. It's actually quite complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163412	In this round, there's only one question for each one. However, we shall now proceed to the debate. We are grateful to the Minister, and now the general rules also apply to short remarks. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163435	Thank you, President. It can be heavy to carry the yoke and burden of power. There are privileges associated with it, but you have to answer for it. That is why this is a debate of the utmost relevance, because, as the Minister has said, it is changing governments that have wanted and promised something to happen. That is why it is no wonder that a Parliament, which for some years has been sitting on the tormenting bench with golden promises, is beginning to ask ever greater questions: what on earth is happening? Why do we still have away not only many criminal foreigners, convicted foreigners in Danish prisons, but also more and more? This is a serious problem which, of course, covers two fundamental and also different issues. One is what kind of aliens we let into Denmark we take another day and then there is the other central question: What is the reasonableness of those who are in Denmark's charge, so that they also have to have the huge privilege of serving in a Danish prison in relation to their country of origin? I assume that running the Danish prisons with the convenient conditions that exist there is, after all, a little more expensive than for example. to run a prison in Bulgaria or Romania. And when I mention them, it is, in fact, because it is EU countries, and therefore no one can object to the fact that the fundamental requirements are not met etc. However, I agree with the Minister for Justice that it might as well be Serbia or another country close to Denmark with which an agreement could be concluded. But when I mention the economy, it is because this is not just a question of reciprocity and whether a country, if we want to send criminal foreigners to a country, should also send some back to Denmark. You could imagine that this could be a good business for some countries. For only the joy of getting rid of these criminals, whom I do not understand to stop committing crime or creating insecurity when they enter prison, could make it possible to say that what it costs to have them sitting, we are happy to give to other countries to allow them to take over the obligation, perhaps in the hope that they will then tackle things just a little more firmly. So this is not really a question of talking a division between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party or the Government and the Danish Parliament; it is thus a fervent wish that what is now changing governments, changing ministers of justice have promised and said that you are interested in is also being realized. Therefore, the Minister of Justice should not see it as any suspicious of his person or work, but rather as a profound interest in the parliament becoming somewhat more involved in this area. That is why, with the permission of the President, I would now like to put forward a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. It reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that inmates in Denmark's prisons and detention houses are increasingly foreigners and stresses that foreigners who commit crime should not take up their place in Danish prisons. The Danish Parliament recalls that the former bourgeois government, together with the Danish People's Party, launched work to establish or rent Danish prison places abroad, but notes that it is very slow to send more criminal EU citizens to serve sentences in their own home country. It is worrying that the Socialist Government has not yet reached such an agreement, despite the fact that there have been negotiations for a long time. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to inform the Folketing every quarter about the progress of the work of ensuring that foreigners sentenced in this country are serving in their country of origin or in a country other than Denmark. • V 80).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163835	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. May I continue? ) Yes, there is one minute left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163846	When I want to do so in the way that I would like to make a comment on this, it is because I hope that the Minister for Justice will take this as an outstretched hand from the bourgeois parties: the fact that we can be involved on a quarterly basis, that we can assist the government in a confidential space. Because it could be that with each of our contacts around the European, international and so on. could facilitate that this can be resolved. When the Minister for Justice says that yes, former justice ministers may not have quite used the resource, the focus that one might want, then it is difficult for us to know. What we can just say, all as a musketeer here from our parties, is that it is not us who stand in the way of the government delivering. So we would like to be involved in the work and be able to contribute everything that is necessary to ensure that foreigners can get out of Danish prisons and homes in prisons in the countries they come from or third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163945	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to the Social Democratic Party. I understand that it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602163958	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that far more convicted criminals must serve their sentences in their country of origin. In this way they do not burden Danish society more than is necessary and more than they have already done. Our prison service is facing capacity challenges, and we see an increasing number of prisoners in prisons and detention houses, especially in recent years. In this case, criminal expulsions represent an excessive proportion of the inmates. It's putting a lot of pressure on the criminal services staff. And with this request, Dansk Folkeparti addresses an important issue. Of course, criminal exiles should not burden our prison services. They should, as a starting point, serve in their home countries and there should be as few exiles as possible in the Danish prisons. Therefore, if criminals sentenced to expulsion cannot be transferred to their country of origin, they should be transferred abroad. It is of great importance for the Social Democratic Party to remedy the capacity shortage in the Danish prisons and detention houses, and we as the Danish People's Party want far more people to serve their sentence in a country other than Denmark. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the aim is that as many aliens as possible sentenced to expulsion should serve their sentences in the country of origin. They should not sit unnecessarily long in Danish prisons. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government is committed to setting up or renting prison places abroad where exiles who cannot serve in their country of origin can serve their sentences. • V 81). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164126	This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment, and that is first Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164131	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your statement that the Social Democratic Party also considers this to be an important agenda. Now we heard before the Minister for Justice explain that this has been an important agenda for a long time. We have also seen the former legal rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party press for this agenda. So since this is so important to the Social Democratic Party, why not join in on our adoption text and simply demand that we stop this, that we keep each other up on this every three months?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164208	Well, first of all, it is our legal rapporteur who has been responsible for the process of finding the final wording of these texts for adoption, but I know that there was an understanding between other parties and us about a joint text for adoption before we went to the Chamber. It turned out that there wasn't anyway, but I don't know that process in depth. I think that the adoption text I have presented is nuanced and balanced and finely emphasizes what is our message, and that is that when there are sentees who should not be in Denmark any longer, it is good that they are serving their prison sentence in another country, so that it is not attractive or anything else to go to prison in Denmark compared to where they originally come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164307	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164307-2	I think that we are a lot of people who agree on that, and that was not really the question. The question was quite clear: when it is so important an agenda for the Social Democratic Party, why not help each other to stop every three months, that this should be at the top of the agenda and that it should not be something at the bottom of paper piles in the Ministry of Justice and that we follow up on it? Will the Social Democrats not be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164334	No, I really do not think that the blue block is, what should we say, any guarantee that it will happen that way. So, when you look at how many people were transferred to serve in their home country in the period 2015 to 2019, we talk about a number of 20-25 people a year. So it does not seem as if the previous majority succeeded in implementing this. In this way, I do not see that any further impetus should be given to the fact that the blue parties had some particular thing I do not quite know what is in it now, because we only became familiar with the text of the Blue Parties when we entered the Chamber or whatever is in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164412	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164413	What is clear now is that it is very difficult to negotiate it here, whether it is a bourgeois government or a social democratic government or whatever it may be. That is why I really find it strange that the Socialist rapporteur does not accept the outstretched hand of bourgeois Denmark. We are four parties, each of which says that we want to assist, and we therefore ask that the Minister of Justice inform us on a quarterly basis of where the matter is, so that in each of the different forums, EPP and Le ALDE, and where we are now around Europe, we can push for this. And I just have to say that I do not understand why social democracy does not accept the outstretched hand if you are really as concerned about this as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164508	Well, I don't think that sir... Morten Messerschmidt must refrain from raising a flag for this when he travels around Europe. In addition, however, I find it rather difficult to see what should come out of the proposal that lies here, anything other than something I do not know about is political teasing or whatever. Because there is nothing in the past to prevent that, too, I am sure that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and others will not refrain from being able to ask committee questions or other parliamentary questions about how things are going in this area, just as we have the question debate today. In addition, however, it is quite natural that it is a matter for governments to negotiate with the governments of other countries on how to organise bilateral cooperation; it is also in this context. And again, I would like to emphasise that I do not see the blue parties now making this proposal as a guarantee that it will then promote the process. I would remind you once again that over the last four years, when we had a blue government in power, there were around 25 people a year who were transferred to serve in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164609	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164610	Maybe it is, sir. Stoklund, say we're a little impatient. I believe that the Minister for Justice mentioned the figure 2006 when it began to talk about this in a serious way. So it was 14 years ago. Those who were born then must be confirmed this year if they must because of the closed churches and all that. But it's just to put it in perspective for how long it's been and now it's gonna have to be soon enough! That is why we say that if we can make as broad an alliance as possible, we would like to do so. But the funny thing is that when we speak broad alliances, the government has apparently not even been able to find the support of its left-wing supporters. Is it understood or is it expected that they will vote in favour of the agenda presented by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164650	Well, I'm completely in line with Mr. Knox. Morten Messerskommand also impatient. I really want this to work out. I just think it is worth noting that we have now had four years with a blue government that was unable to succeed, that is, where there were 25 people such plus/minus who were transferred to serving abroad a year. There was no further momentum in it, and it has also been described in the daily press. The fact that we have now had a social democratic government that has had less than a year to try to speed up the process is not something that makes my pessimism so flourish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602164746	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising a very important and very topical debate. In the Left, there is no doubt about where we stand on this issue: criminal foreigners do not belong in Denmark, in short, and that is why it is our aim that as many exiles as possible should return home and serve their prison sentences in their own country. The expulsion sentenced people should not sit and take up places in Danish prisons and represent an expense for the Danish taxpayers. At the moment we also have a situation where there is overcrowding in the Danish prisons and detention houses. So there are more inmates than there are prison places available. It stressed the need for the government to work as quickly as possible to have as many criminals as possible expelled foreigners returned to their respective countries of origin or to other countries with which an agreement can be reached and where it can then be served. Here we have a large group of Romanians, and this should, in fact, have the highest priority for this government, and it should be, among other things, because the former Socialist legal rapporteur, the current Minister for Defence, Trine Bramsen, has repeatedly criticised the former VLAK government for not doing enough. We can then ask the Social Democratic Minister for Justice very pertinently: what has the government actually done to get among other things. more Romanians to serve outside Denmark? Has the dialogue begun at the highest level by the then Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen to ensure that more Romanians could serve in their country of origin? Another problem we have seen recently is that the exiled criminals return to Denmark on a large scale, a large proportion of the exiled criminals who repeatedly violate their entry ban. One month ago, the DR was able to bring news that 2,840 foreign persons have been in defiance of an entry ban imposed on them by a expulsion order since 2001. We in the Left find this quite simply totally unacceptable, and this underlines even more the need for us to have more prison places established abroad so that they showed that it is not a hotel stay to come to Denmark and could serve his sentence, and there is, of course, some indication that they believe that. As the Minister of Justice and the Socialist rapporteur also said before, the Socialist Government has been responsible for almost a year, and we just have to note that it is far too slow to have the expelled criminals transferred to their own country or another country. The Social Democratic Party, in their aliens' initiative from the 2019 election campaign, suggested that foreigners convicted of crime in Denmark should serve in the country from which they come. Criminal foreigners are not to serve in Danish prisons for Danish treasure crowns, they are to be sent home, there is clearly and clearly in the motion, and we in the Left are very much in agreement with that. Now the Minister for Justice has just informed us that it is not possible to provide information on the state of the negotiations, whether there are more prison places on the way in other countries. We in the Left, of course, do not want to put anything in the way of concluding agreements and making them confidential. But it would be nice if the Minister could give us some indication: what countries are negotiating with? How many seats are being negotiated? Are there real negotiations? Or is there, as the Minister put it, just contact? Because there is a big difference between real negotiations and contact. So I would like to ask the Minister: what real negotiations are there? What time perspective do we have to look forward to? I understand that this is at the top of the Justice Department's desk, so it must be fair that we could get an answer to that. I would also like to support the motion for a resolution which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165234	There is one brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165238	Thank you. I actually got a little curious about what's changed. In other words, we had four years ago with a blue government, where the rapporteur was also a key figure. What's changed? During that period, it was possible to transfer within the vicinity of 25 people plus/minus a year. Why is it that the rapporteur thinks that I do not quite understand that it should perhaps be much easier to do so now and that far too little is happening now? After all, you didn't do the job yourself in the four years you had to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165309	There is, in fact, nothing that has changed in relation to the priorities of the Left. We also negotiated very, very intensively with, among others. Lithuania, I think the Socialist rapporteur is aware of this. At any rate, there was an enormous amount of publicity in the press about the fact that there were negotiations with Lithuania. The then Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, also negotiated at the highest level with Romania, which I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. It has also been shown in countless articles. So it was something that had incredibly high priority, and we were in a really, really good gang. Therefore, it should be a narrow matter for the current government just to kick the ball to the finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165351	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165352	In other words, if I may be a little free, I think it is a little easy to come and say now, when one was not able to do the job for four years, that is to say, that now the new government has to do it without further ado after sitting for less than a year. I mean, four years they had! 25 people a year plus/minus were transferred to serving abroad. You weren't able to solve this problem in any way. Now it is believed that the present government is far too slow to do so. I mean, I think it's such a criticism that needs a little macro bottom to stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165424	Some macro bottom to stand on... yes. Or you could say that we used the time exactly to put the ball so close to the goal that it just had to be kicked to the goal. And that's actually what we did. Giant strategy meetings were held, which were negotiated at the highest level, and therefore it should simply be a narrow matter to have those agreements negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165445	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165505	For a long time there has been a challenge with far too many inmates in the Danish prisons and far too few employees. This is a very unhealthy development and I think it should be reduced. And that is also precisely why Denmark has to work to get deportees to serve in their own countries, even though experience has shown itself to be very difficult. At any rate, I remember that this is something we have been discussing a great deal in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and indeed for many years. Precisely because it may prove difficult, as I recall, Poland had for a long time at least been allowed to send people to serve in Poland, because they simply had a explanatory statement themselves, we also agree that we should work to see whether it is possible to rent places or set up places abroad. After all, we support this idea because the expulsion sentenced people do not have a future in Denmark. They must therefore think quite specifically that the convicted should serve closest to the place where they should be re-socialised; that is where they should live after all. However, it is also important when we embark on the discipline that we then comply with the existing conventions and international prison rules. And I think it should be a matter of course that Denmark assists in sharing its good knowledge of rehabilitation in connection with the creation of these places. I think that we have a long and good tradition of trying to re-socialise, and it is crucial that we spread that knowledge out. For example, if a Romanian is released from a rented place in Romania without the necessary efforts being made, then I think that the lack of a life perspective risks throwing away a new wave of crime, and it is probably not entirely unthinkable that he or she is trying to come back to Denmark to commit new crime. That is what the question debate is about. Then I would say that I would like to shoot in here eventually that I visited Nyborg Prison recently, and here are some of the exiled. I don't know if it's a completely lucky system we've created for them. I kind of agree that they should not have the rehabilitation work that we offer to the Danish inmates that makes no sense, but I was actually a little upset to find out that they can't get regular medical treatment. They can, if it's acute, and then they have to pay for it themselves. Of course, they do not have the means to do so, and I think that is a little unworthy of it. We know that if, for example, we do. if an inflammation of a tooth occurs, there is a risk that it walks with the blood into the heart valves and causes a life-threatening inflammation there. It does not even have to be so dramatic; it may also just be that you have high blood pressure, diabetes or other diseases. In fact, I do not think we can condone this, it is not sustainable in the long run. Thank you for the floor. And before I go down from the platform, I am also going on behalf of the SF, the RV and the EL • Radicals could not, unfortunately, be in the Parliamentary Chamber today • make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the overlay in the Danish prisons is an unhealthy development and that it can be reduced. At the same time, the Folketing considers that the sentenced should serve the closest to the place where they are to be re-socialised. Parliament therefore considers that it is the aim that as many aliens as possible sentenced to expulsion should serve their sentences in the country of origin if that is possible. This obligation applies to both roads and therefore Denmark also has an obligation to ensure that its own nationals serve in Denmark. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is committed to setting up or renting prison places abroad. It is important that existing conventions and international prison rules are respected, and that Denmark should assist and share its knowledge of rehabilitation in setting up possible places. • V 82).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165921	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also now part of the further debate. Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165924	It's hard when you get to read something, to sit and compare it upside down. That is why I just want to hear what it is that makes the Socialist People's Party not support the proposal for adoption put forward by the Social Democrats. I'm not so naive that I think you haven't talked about it before. So what exactly is it that makes it impossible to agree in red camp, so to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602165948	What has been important to us is that we get the conventions in place, and the Minister for Justice has confirmed this in the Chair. So that is good enough, but it was important for us that it was in the text. And then we are preoccupied with, and that there is also a resocializing effort in the place where you start making seats, because it is crucial if we are to avoid those people, after all, starting the car again and driving to Denmark and committing crime. That would be a really bad situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170018	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170020	I believe more in border controls than in rehabilitation there. But it is of course very interesting, since this may be why the government has so much difficulty in concluding an agreement. Because if the government's parliamentary support parties are so preoccupied with the fact that it is a question of rehabilitation and that there must be just as comfortable conditions as in Danish prisons etc. etc., so it can be incredibly difficult for the government to find a country where it can be done, and so I would just like to hear the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur here: if the government made a proposal where there is a real country that is willing to make such an agreement with Denmark, but where there may not be the same rehabilitation opportunities, or what do I know, as in Denmark, will the party SF block it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170059	I have to take a position on this when there is a specific proposal, and I think that the government has got into exactly the same problems that the previous government had in this area, namely that this is super-hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170110	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we now move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170124	Thank you. The fact that foreign criminals sentenced to prison and expulsion in Denmark are to serve in their country of origin is a good starting point, unless, of course, the conditions of service in their country of origin are so problematic that they come into conflict with the standards laid down in the Convention on Human Rights or any other of Denmark's contractual obligations. Unfortunately, both the government and the parliamentary majority have left this otherwise excellent position, I think. We saw this in the case of Danish citizens who are suspected of joining the Islamic State and who are currently detained in Syria or one of the surrounding countries. The Kurdish autonomy in north-east Syria has begged and asked the Western countries, including Denmark, to take their citizens home for prosecution and service. The Kurdish leadership does not, for good reason, believe that the Kurdish community is responsible for the arrival of travellers from Denmark and other Western countries to commit war crimes and other atrocities in the name of Islamic State, just as the Danish state does not bear the responsibility for an Australian or Japanese traveling to Denmark to commit crime. When it comes to these Danish citizens who are suspected of crime abroad, the government and the majority, which also include the party that has called this inquiry debate, namely the Danish People's Party, believe that they should stay in the country where they have committed the crime. I still think that we still lack a good explanation why the government, the Danish People's Party and the other parties that make up the majority of this question think that we should expect other countries to receive their citizens for service when we do not want to receive our own citizens for service. In fact, I think that is a little hypocritical. The second part of the question is, after all, about serving in a third country, in other words a country which is neither Denmark nor the country in which the person is resident. It is for us to see something less obvious that it should be a good solution. In the view of the Enhedslisten, responsibility for atoning must rest either in the country where the crime was committed or in the country where the person who committed the crime has citizenship. We know that from 2015 to 2018 Norway operated a prison in the Netherlands with 242 seats, where prisoners from Norway were flown to serving in the Netherlands. It raised a lot of questions about responsibility, about the economy, since it almost turned out to be a very expensive solution. When the agreement expired in 2018, the Norwegian Criminal Services recommended that it should not be extended, and neither was it. In these years we see some very ugly political tendencies towards wiping off problems on other countries. Former Prime Minister Mr. In 2018, Lars Løkke Rasmussen gave a constitutional speech stating that his government was working to establish an exit centre for rejected asylum seekers in a non-attractive place in a European country outside the EU. When it emerged earlier this year that Austria and Serbia had reached an agreement on an exit centre in Serbia, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that he was very jealous of that. The foreign warrior suspects do not want the government and the majority to return to justice and service in this country on the grounds that they have turned their backs on Denmark. Rather, I think that it is Denmark that is turning its back on the Kurdish community, which has sacrificed an infinite amount in the fight against the Islamic State. We'll turn our backs on them. Now came the idea of prison places in a third country where the serving person may never have set his feet and with which he has had nothing to do with in the past. You can probably find countries where you can rent prison places cheaper than in the Netherlands. Bulgarian or Romanian prison officers are likely to receive a lower salary than their Danish and Dutch colleagues. One might then ask whether it is reasonable for well-educated Danish prison officers to be made unemployed because the state can buy itself for labour at a dumping price abroad. Even if you solve some of the economic problems that the Norwegians had with their Dutch prison, there are other problems left. Who is responsible for respect for human rights? Does the Ombudsman have access to control and supervision of what is going on? I think it leaves too many things to be fluttered, and in the Enhedslisten we can support the proposal for adoption which Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170634	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170650	In the course of the Finance Law negotiations in December 2018, the then government, of which we were part, agreed with the Danish People's Party that exiled foreigners should be imprisoned abroad. This would make it less attractive for criminal exiled foreigners to speculate about going to Danish prisons because in some cases it could give greater privileges to go to a Danish prison than to a prison in the home country. According to the Finance Act, we were either to rent or buy prison places in an Eastern European or Southern European country according to the model of Norway, where some prison places have been bought in the Netherlands. I know that the former Minister for Justice, Mr Søren Pape Poulsen, was in direct negotiations with a few countries, and in one of them negotiations were really well advanced. Then a parliamentary election got in the way, and then you didn't get that deal in place. I understand when the Minister for Justice says today that there must be attention to caution and confidentiality, and that we must also take into account the country with which we are negotiating, their government and their internal affairs. I also understand that it costs that it is also about the price. Of course, all these things must be confidential and respectful, but what I think is important is that there is action, that you negotiate properly with the countries and not just have contact with them, because the Danish prisons are overcrowded. The Minister of Justice said in December 2019: It is extra annoying that there are no fewer than 365 exiles in Danish prisons, 30 of which are currently in prison. Romanians. It is therefore important that we really negotiate with a country, so that we can either borrow or buy those prison places, so that the focus can be on the Danish inmates and their rehabilitation. That is what should be the top priority. We are also sending a signal to those who speculate about ending up in Danish prisons that it will not go any further. That is why it is important that we have a proposal for adoption, one of the most central of which is that we should be informed on a quarterly basis of what is happening in this area, so that things do not get pickled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170944	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments and we can therefore move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602170954	The president of the prison association, Bo Yde Sørensen, said the following about foreigners, immigrants and descendants in Danish prisons in March and I quote: "Yes, in society it is a problem that some groups in this way stand out negatively. This is not my problem as such, but what is going on in the prisons is my problem, and I have been trying to shout about it since I became a shop steward in Nyborg Prison in 2007. And the problems have only gotten bigger... Detectives have had a fear of touch for many years, but we see that the descendants not only try, but actually take control of other inmates out on the hallways... what to eat of food, inmates are required to participate in prayer. There are also very violent attacks on ethnic Danes. These are harsh words from a harsh reality... a reality that changing political majority has helped create for our society. I have to ask: how have the parties here in the Folketing been able to let it come to this? How has the security of the Danes been abandoned for years? Why has the crime of foreigners with violence, shootings, rape, vandalism, assault and theft been tolerated as if it were a necessary burden that the Danes had to accept? And when can we expect a majority to resolve the problems? We must not accept the ravages of criminal foreigners in Denmark. They must be caught, judged and sent out of the country without exception, consistently and after the first sentence. And they are not to serve their sentence in Danish prisons. They must leave the guard immediately after the sentence and serve in a rented prison somewhere abroad, preferably far, far away from Denmark. The safety of the Danes must return. This is the policy of the New Citizen, and I am convinced that this is what is needed in order to put an end to the increasing violence and crime in Muslim parallel societies. Firstly, we will reduce the number of unintegrable immigrants quite considerably and quite quickly. It is good for the security of society in general; it is good for the law-abiding immigrants, who therefore should not be suspicious of the crimes of their countrymen; and it is good for the police, who will not have to arrest the same criminals over and over again. It's enough once, and then it's out. Secondly, it will have a strong preventive effect. Everyday terror in our society will fade when the consequence is expulsion. Order and order will spread in otherwise pre-war areas in Denmark. The kids will think twice before taking the knife into their pockets on their way to town. If you're apprehended with a weapon, it's out of the country for serving and consistent expulsion. Almost half of the inmates in Danish prisons and detention houses are foreigners, immigrants or descendants. They are a nuisance to prison staff, they are violent towards both staff and fellow prisoners, and they take on too many resources that can be better spent on crime prevention work with Danish prisoners. Foreigners are not allowed to sit in Danish prisons at all. It would be much more convenient to rent a prison in a foreign country. Then they can serve their sentence there. This can be done under proper conditions, but without using resources to rehabilitate them. For criminal foreigners are going out, and they are never going back into Danish society. New citizens have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that changing political majority has helped to create a reality for our country where the crime of foreigners is tolerated. It is noted that the rise in crime in the Muslim parallel societies is an unacceptable failure of the Danes. The security of the Danes must be restored, so that foreign policy must be resolved from the bottom up. Parliament calls on the government to reduce the number of unintegrable foreigners considerably and quickly, and that foreigners are captured, judged and sent out of Denmark consistently after the first sentence and never let in again. In this way, the everyday terror in our country will decline. It calls for foreigners not to serve their sentences in Danish prisons where they are violent towards the staff and where they seize too many resources that can be better spent on crime prevention work with Danish prisoners. Foreigners must immediately be sent out of Denmark after their sentence and serve in a rented prison abroad. V 83).
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171501	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also now part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171507	I would just like to acknowledge that Mrs Pernille Vermund brings the experience of the President of the Prisons Association in connection with this debate into the picture. I think this is a very relevant kick in, and I would also just like to say that I have spoken to the prison officers myself, who confirm this picture. It is also a very important focus to have in this debate that some of the people's everyday and working lives are marked by it, because they have to deal with it here and are faced with these very unpleasant everyday acts of violence and behaviour in prisons that have historically not been used to in Denmark. It is of course very important that it is taken seriously, including by the Danish Parliament. So I'm actually just gonna sign for that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171545	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171546	Thank you. I told you earlier from the platform about a meeting with a prison officer who made a great impression on me, but it also makes a huge impression on me when I talk to people who have been in prison in Denmark and who also feel how the rehabilitation really has cramped conditions when you are with people who are whistle-blowing indifferent to how you behave towards others. The fact that you get through a prison stay at all and out on the other side as a law-abiding citizen therefore requires far more than you just go and think, and we could remove part of the burden that is for the Danish inmates, and the challenge that is in relation to being resocialised if we resolve this soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171633	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171636	After all, Mrs Pernille Vermund has now been given the opportunity to see the proposal for adoption which the four other civil parties have chosen to make jointly, yet she does not choose to put pressure on the government in her proposal for adoption. It is just as if the proposal for adoption is more an attempt to get some of the New Citizen's programme of principles or something into the debate here rather than actually achieving a result. I would just like to hear: what are the considerations that Mrs Vermund has made when she has chosen to run the line which is now about highlighting what four mandates in the Folketing think about the possibility that it actually was to be part of the largest coalition here in the Folketing? Because as it appears here, it will be the bourgeois parties' proposals for adoption that can get the most votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171724	But if New Citizens had thought that the bourgeois parties had done well enough in this area, which is crucial for us, in other words the expulsion of criminal foreigners, then I am not sure that we would have had to create new citizens. So it can hardly come as a surprise that when you make a proposal for adoption that praises your own work during the previous parliamentary term and that, like the results which have not been seen to the public but which you know about, it becomes difficult for the new citizens to sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171755	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171755-2	No, no, what's wondering is more what the alternative is. In addition to the fact that the people can welcome the fact that Mrs Pernille Vermund has become a member of parliament, it is not something that has affected outside Christiansborg, and this proposal for adoption, which will then receive four votes, will not affect the law or the government's efforts or the world in general. That is why it is only interesting to know what kind of strategy Mrs Pernille Vermund is working on, unless the strategy is to gather 90 mandates, because we can also try to do that together, and so far we have 20. But instead of going in and influencing things, try to present it to the other parties who are on this proposal for adoption, Mrs Pernille Vermund seems to choose to put the consideration of her propaganda activity ahead of actually obtaining a majority in the Folketing. Is that how it must be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171840	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171841	We must have spent many years in politics and away from the general public in order to believe that a majority for a proposal for adoption will move anything at all. What can be seen in society is that these problems have not been resolved, and I will not give our mandates' support for a proposal for adoption which pays tribute to a policy by a majority in the previous parliamentary term that has not solved the problems. I would like to support a criticism of the government which does not solve the problems, but I do not want to support what should be said about the glorification of former politicians' handling of this matter. Because we would not have stood where we stand today if the problems had been resolved when we had the power and the 37 mandates that DF had during the last parliamentary term, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171929	Thank you. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602171939	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate which gives me the opportunity to comment on some of the comments that have been made. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt said that part of such an agreement to be made with another country might be that it was a good business for them. Actually, I think that's one of the main handles that needs to be done. Well, I think that some of what we're going to do here is, of course, that the country we're making the deal with can see that they're getting something out of this economically. You can also get something out of it in other ways. That is why, of course, I am similarly disappointed that Mrs Britt Baker says that expulsions should not represent an expense for Danish taxpayers, because that is what they are going to do to those sentenced to expulsions who may be in another prison. It would be naive to think that we can turn to another country and that against cheap port wine and sweet words they will accept criminals who are not even their own citizens to serve in the country. I don't think that's gonna happen. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt made a number of comments, and there have been various examples of this, one might well say, during the debate on the adoption text that has been made and there has been a desire to meet on a text. I share the desire to meet on a text. And I just have to say, for the record, that we were of that opinion until 8 a.m. 12 noon today, that we had a majority in this House to meet on a text, but there are some parties in the Folketing that are fragile at the moment and therefore it turned out that that understanding could not be maintained. However, I would like to invite you now that we can see that there is no text that can collect a majority, and so we will end up with a vote that will be taken without any approval, so that we can endorse the excellent text that we have produced and which focuses on what is at the heart of this agreement, namely to move forward with the agreement. Then why not take the text as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and a number of civil parties, however, without New Citizens, who have not been invited to join, must one understand that has been put forward? In fact, there are two problems. One is that there is an unjustified criticism of the efforts of the current government; and the other is that, in fact, it is where we have to think very well about the fact that we must avoid exposure to what is happening here. I know that there may be a need to hear how things are going and so on, but it is still my view that some of what made the previous attempt to make an agreement fall to the ground was that it was exposed. And when Mrs Britt Baker says that there was a long way to go with the negotiations with Lithuania and that the ball was put close to the target, it should simply be shot to the goal, then I think we should just try to consult Lithuania's Minister of Justice, who said on the same issue when he was presented with it in December 2018, that we have made it clear that we are not going to build a new prison in Lithuania because Parliament is very sceptical about it. They (Denmark) promised to come up with a new proposal, but that has not happened. There are no negotiations. That's what the Minister of Justice said. So the fact that it was put in order and had to be kicked to the finish line is certainly not the view of the other side of the negotiating table, one can say calmly. As we are then being followed up again and questions are being asked as to whether there are any negotiations right now, an e-mail will be laconically answered: Thank you very much for the reference. We can't confirm it. That's what the Minister of Justice writes. So the fact that it was right to kick in the finish line is certainly not the opinion of the people with whom it was negotiated at the time. It may of course have been the opinion of some of those who negotiated on the Danish side. I seriously doubt that. But, of course, I shall not be able to tell you what opinions have emerged. Perhaps that points to some of the sensitive points which Mrs Britt Baker also asks, namely: can we not know which countries are concerned? No. The course we've been through confirms why it shouldn't be exposed because we're in danger of losing it all. And I am not saying that there is a majority in here who would get a little excited about the bonfire of complacency if it failed for the current government, that is, this project. However, if you want the project to succeed, we will have to gather together to see that it makes sense for these negotiations to take place in a way that does not become exposed, otherwise we risk losing it. And that, in fact, is also where Mr. Naser Khader is, when he says: The most important thing is that the negotiations are actually being conducted so that that is what is happening. And I have said that the negotiations are, of course, affected by the Corona crisis, just because we cannot travel between countries, and that makes it more difficult when we get there. All in all, however, I believe that we, as a Parliament, would be best served if we could meet on the text of the adoption that we have presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172512	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172516	Thank you. I can guarantee that, at least in the new citizens, we will not sit around and cheer ourselves up if this does not succeed. We are in a situation now that we are not part of the majority, and I doubt that there will be other, at least well-meaning, civil parties who would think that it was better for you to gain power yourself than for Denmark to get on the right track. But everyone has to speak for their own cause. I'd like to hear something. I asked the Minister at the outset about time, and the Minister said that it was the Minister's ambition to achieve this within this parliamentary term, and there are, after all, two tracks. There are, on the one hand, those who, within the European Union, can return to their own homeland and, on the other hand, those who belong to all sorts of other places and who can pool, I suppose, in a prison somewhere, wherever it may be, preferably far away from Denmark. Is it the Minister's ambition in both areas to achieve a goal or to work more on one track than on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172617	We're working on both tracks. The last clue is by far the most complicated. Well, that's the lead that would potentially move 400 exiles out of Denmark to serve somewhere else. But we are certainly also working on the second track, i.e. the transfer of sentenced people to their own countries of origin. It is also true, as the Socialist rapporteur has pointed out, that if you look at it historically, the figures for transfers to the country of origin are not impressive. In 2015 it was 29, in 2016 it was 27, so it was 14, 14 and 27. I myself have had a dialogue with the parties on whether we could move forward along this path. It is easier to go on in the sense that it does not require a large overall, complex contractual system, but it is less fruitful in the sense that it is usually relatively few, which results in unfortunately at a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172721	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172723	One of the things that was promoted in the past was that EU citizens could not be sent to EU countries because the conditions in prisons in those countries were too miserable. From the outside, it seems completely insane that a citizen, a citizen, in a country cannot serve in a prison in his own country, because we consider that the situation is too miserable for all the time that the vast majority of those convicted in those countries are serving in those prisons. That is why I have to ask the question of the debate that was previously held with Mrs Rosa Lund: is it some of the challenge for the government that there is a parliamentary basis that has jumped on this with the terms of the inmates, in other words with regard to resolving this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172807	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172809	I'm challenged by my parliamentary basis every day, but not in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172821	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. And to conclude the debate, Mr President, it is now the rapporteur of the questioners. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602172831	Thank you, President. It is a pleasant picture, i.e. the idea of sitting around the fire with the Minister of Justice, as the night falls and the doll falls, and having a nice time so far we agree. That is why it is almost impossible to mention the countries which the previous government in its reply to Question No. S 505 himself was out on the initiative of a person whom I do not assume the Minister of Justice is completely unknown, namely Mrs Trine Bramsen. And it can be said that if it is so dangerous that the Folketing starts to ask about countries, perhaps the Social Democrats, when they are in opposition, should consider also showing the same vigilance as they are asking for the bourgeois parties to do when we are in opposition. That kind of equality is always nice. But I am not going to be the one who obstructs government work in any way. On the contrary, the whole manoeuvre here is about us reaching out, as I said, because we want something real to happen. And that is why I should just like to say that, regardless of what happened between the government and the bourgeois parties on various proposals for adoption, I really hope that the government, whatever proposal may be adopted, will accept the outstretched hand and involve us in the work. It is not much in this Parliament that gathers so widely, and therefore it is not an attempt to polemicise or challenge; in fact we mean it because we think it is essential moral, economic, political, in all areas. And that is why it is amazing to hear how Mrs Vermund, with her enormous hypocrisy, is showing that this was to be the subject of her report and that she is interested in making an agreement with the government, because if she were, she would not have gone into a number of other areas in her proposal for adoption, which she knows very well that we cannot get the government involved. I speak from some experience because my party has been represented in this Parliament for 25 years and therefore knows very well what is possible and what is not possible. But there is still more, I think, in the way Mrs Vermund works, where it is clear that it is not at all about getting her policy through. What it is about is exhibiting those who are called politicians, even though there are Members of this Parliament who have been members of their respective parties for less time than Mrs Vermund has been a member of a party, because they want to distance themselves from those who are then called politicians, while at the same time they do not care whether they can get their policies through. All it is about is the next choice to be able to secure its own re-election, and there we have some people looking at it a little differently. And that is why we are a little concerned when an e-mail is ticked in from some parties that are otherwise presented as if you are allied with, and you have objections to it and the way it is formulated and what is written in the proposal for adoption. Perhaps because you are unhappy with some of the parties that you have been part of in the past that you can then return to it and say that the passage has to go out, and that something else has to come in here and things like that. But one sees the fact that one is more concerned with promoting one's own propaganda show than actually bringing together a bourgeois majority who can put pressure on a government that cannot even build on its own majority. That is what this Parliament is all about, Mrs Vermund. And it may well be that proposals for adoption are not immediately what interests Mrs Vermund very much, but I have to say that Mrs Vermund has now signed the agreement to comply with the Constitution, and then perhaps she could also take note of the Rules of Procedure which underlie the whole work here, and that through Danish history governments have actually been overturned on proposals for adoption. Then take it a little more seriously next time! Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173214	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173215	I just want to say thank you. Well, obviously you have hit a sore toe when you can get a rapporteur like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to spend half of his rapporteur speech on New Citizens' and undersigned. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173230-2	I would very much like to spend all my speaking time on the people who put the party over the country of origin, and that is why I believe that, with the style of Mrs Pernille Vermund here, she can count on quite a lot of what I am going to spend my speaking time on going in her direction in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173245	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173246	Well, that sounds great. Then we will also look forward to receiving similar attention and perhaps even with support for the good proposals, where we often agree, but where these small details need to be highlighted, as if there is a great deal of disagreement there. I really think that the fight against Islam, the fight against foreigners, unintegrable foreigners, which destroy our country, is more important than internal clashes. But I'm glad that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is so graceful that he will dedicate so much of his speaking time to New Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173325	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173326	I try to be absolutely graceful in all the contexts of life, and it can be said that if Mrs Pernille Vermund and her three friends would be part of the political work, they might experience and perhaps even enjoy that graciousness. The problem is, of course, that there is much to suggest that if Mrs Pernille Vermund were to become part of the right political work, she would lose her entire project, because that would indicate that it is primarily Mrs Pernille Vermund herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173348	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 4 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200602173401	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. June 2020, p.m. 10:00.
