ParlaMint-DK_20201008090024	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews and since there are many, I must refrain from reading the titles: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 12 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments, the Law on Laundering, the Law on Capital Markets and various other laws. the payment service directive, the 4th and 5th money laundering directives, amendments to the benchmark regulation and the disclosure regulation). Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 42 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on electronic communications networks and services, the Law on radio frequencies and various other laws. Bill No. L 43 (Proposal for a law amending the law on CO2 trading period, including adjustments to the rules on complaints, etc.) and Bill No. L 44 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy and the Law on Electricity). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 45 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the amendment of Danish citizenship and the Aliens Act. Bill No. L 46 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 47 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on Digital Post by public senders. Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 48 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions. Bill No. L 49 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions. Bill No. L 50 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on post-schools and free vocational schools, and the law on private institutions for upper secondary education. Bill No. L 51 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on primary education. Bill No. L 52 (Proposal for a law amending the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education, etc.) and law on vocational training institutions. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Proposal No. L 53 (Proposal for a law on the investigation of certain matters relating to the defence intelligence service). Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 54 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 55 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 56 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Specific Projects (EIA) and amending the Law on the Farming and Use of Fertilizers, etc.) Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities and Minister for Nordic Cooperation (Mogens Jensen): Bill No. L 57 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Bill No. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Organic Law. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 59 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Bill No. L 60 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Law on access to health care, Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and on Healthcare Care and the Law on Doctors and Dentists in charge of Business. Bill No. L 61 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Tobacco Advertising etc., the Law on Tobacco Products, etc., the Law on Electronic Cigarettes, etc.) and various other laws. Bill No. L 62 (Proposal for a Law on the Scientific Treatment of Clinical Tests of Medical Devices, etc.)), Bill No. L 63 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health and the Law on Pharmacy. Bill No. L 64 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Social Insurance Act, Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc.) and the law on ionizing radiation and radiation protection. Martin Lidegaard (RV), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Egil Hulgaard (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of land reservations in the northern Ring 5 transport corridor). Zenia Stamp (RV), Liselott Blixt (DF), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of land reservations in the southern Ring 5 transport corridor). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of surrogate motherhood by Canadian model). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sharpening of prison sentences). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 30 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of an obligation to obtain public criminal records in the recruitment of staff and management in the care and care sector). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Defence (Trine Bramsen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 20 October 2020. The opening debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008090216	I hope that we will have a good debate today. I assume, of course, that everyone is aware of the general recommendations on hand hygiene, etc., and there is hand alcohol available. In addition, it is also important that we keep our distance, and I therefore ask that we take account of each other and make room for each other when we go to and from the platform from our own place. I also recommend that talks be held either in Grebningen or even better in Members' reading rooms. The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008090259	We have opened the Danish Parliament in 2020, but we are currently talking a great deal about 2030 and, like other men in quite soon 40 years, I am currently thinking a little more about life and how it and the world will be in 10 years' time. In such a thoughtful time, I saw a regular Sunday morning. I'm the first in the family to get up; Leo and Johan have become teenagers and sleep in an hour that I can't anymore. The coffee has been put over, and I will later go to the landscape on a racing bike in some nice lycra clothes, but first it is the newspaper, which is still published on paper this weekend. I'm scratching that beard that finally grows close enough to be right about it. The front page of the newspaper can tell that the number of Danes dying prematurely from air pollution has fallen dramatically. And I'm gonna be a little proud that I was there when we made the decisions that really made a difference. It won't be the only good news that year. Denmark has reached its climate target of 70%. less greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990. The welfare state is stronger than ever, the Danish economy is healthy and unemployment is low. A little later in the field of CO2 at home we are already thinking about the next objective: a whole CO2 We invested wisely, made forward-looking political decisions and got a green transition, which at the same time strengthened the welfare society. There were more jobs, new export adventures and a renewed cohesion because we got the whole country on the journey. That's where we're gonna be in 10 years. And we who have been elected to the Danish Parliament have the fantastic privilege of being able to directly shape how Denmark develops in conjunction with what is happening in the world and what is happening technologically. Just think about 10 years back to 2010. Back then we rented DVD movies in Blockbuster, and most people didn't know what a selfie was or had tried to take one. Ten years ago wind power covered about one fifth of Danish electricity consumption, today it is half. 50 electric cars were bought throughout 2010, last year the figure was more than 100 times as large. Since 2010, we have eradicated polio, and in Denmark homosexuals can marry on an equal footing with others in a church. We can do so much for our society, our citizens and our nature and environment. This obviously requires a huge effort and sometimes difficult decisions; there are dilemmas and hard political swordshooting in negotiations that will take more hours than today's debate does, but we will come to a better future. A parliamentary year plus a chat has passed since the election. The Social Democratic Government has set a new direction for Denmark, just as the Social Democracy promised the Danes that we would, and it is a greener and fairer direction. Let's take the green first. Towering climate objectives have been transposed into law. The Climate Act obliges us to reach 70%. less greenhouse gas by 2030. It is the task, and indeed now the law in Denmark, that obliges us all. And we have acted on it with concrete, tangible decisions and political agreements that deliver CO2 We have found 5 million. of the total of 20 million. t, we have to reduce by 2030, i.e. a quarter, and that is just five quarters since the parliamentary elections. We are pursuing both ambitious and fair climate policy. It is ambitious because we insist on reaching 70%.; it is fair because it has to be done in a way that does not forget our welfare, cohesion, jobs and competitiveness on the way there; so that we get everyone on the journey and can leave the yellow vests in the trunk. That is the social democratic way. To get to the finish with the 70%. the green conversion must be a embracing and broad project. However, if by 2030 we have left a lot of people with too much costs, where inequality has increased and jobs have been lost, it is not a victory. We may have achieved a national goal, but have lost the support of the broad population along the way, lost interest abroad, and then with our efforts we have moved no more than a single decimal in global climate accounting. It's not a win that's a lot to do. The impatientness is great, and we are discussing it all the time, and for many reasons the green transition is also urgent. I guess the impatientness is also an expression of the expectation and confidence that with the social democracy in government it is different. And that's it. Denmark has a government that takes the climate crisis seriously, which, together with the parties of the Folketing, is acting with care and always with a view to jobs and a healthy economy under our common welfare. We are also drawing Denmark in a fairer direction. As Social Democrats, we are driven by the desire for more justice when we propose a new right to early retirement for Arne when we prioritise more nurses, school teachers and educators or combat capital funds in housing speculation, quick loan sharks and tax fraudsters. Right and duty. Now it is only welfare, as we promised, when we were in opposition and in the election campaign. We have shown this in financial laws and in economic agreements with municipalities and regions, improvements in health care, better standards in day care institutions, better psychiatry, care for the elderly, investment in primary school. Gone are the ceiling on education and the annual green harvesting savings in higher education. These are good and important steps, which may not be felt as revolutions in society from one day to the next out there, but which nevertheless allow us to develop welfare locally for the better and set a new direction. We do not solve all the welfare challenges with more resources. New laws and regulations and guidelines have made the room for action smaller for the individual welfare worker. It has affected professionalism. That needs to be changed. It takes courage to set the public institutions free, as the Prime Minister announced in his speech the other day. Now the government does so in seven municipalities in selected welfare areas, in agreement with them. It will be exciting to follow the experiences that are being done there. I come from the small town of Hammelev in South Jutland. My childhood football team regularly played matches against Fjelstrup, another small town near Haderslev, which by virtue of a special brewery worker among its inhabitants is now also mentioned in national media during these months. And, yeah, now it's Arne's turn. Him and many thousands of other Danes with the longest and hardest working life will benefit from a new right to early retirement. It's time for politics to be about people like Arne too. They have been the missing people, as author Lars Olsen baptized them in his book, overlooked by the governments of the Left and often also in the media. It is also well-being that you can have some good years of retirement with the grandchildren without being completely worn out. About the negotiations in these weeks goes well, the Folketing extends the employees' rights in Denmark with the possibility of earlier withdrawal before the end of the year. We are in the ninth month of the corona in Denmark. The infection has flared up again. We expected that, but it's come sooner than we thought. We may have to show that together we can overcome the infection. That is the very prerequisite for us to be able to restore the economy. And there is no contradiction between saving human lives and saving the economy that some people put back in the spring. When we tackle the infection and work to raise the economy again after the severe setback in the second quarter, it must also be fair and not, as when the pieces were to be assembled after the financial crisis, where people with the lowest incomes and those on the edge of the labour market had to turn their pockets inside out even for a crisis that they had no shares in, but which was caused by political failure and by greed and irresponsibility in the financial sector. This time the recovery must be for the Danes, as they are most. It is their jobs that we will save, and if we do not succeed, it is their opportunity to have a new one that we must create. That is where we want to invest in the Danes and in our common welfare. The biggest threat to the Danish economy now is if unemployment bites. That is why, with the Finance Act, we are taking advantage of the entire fiscal space we have and are pursuing an expansive fiscal policy, which means that we are turning the investment up completely so that we can boost the economy and combat unemployment. It is worrying that it seems to be again those who are extremely much on the labour market, who also lost the job last time, there was a crisis that is now in a position to do it again or have done it. I hope that the Danish Parliament can, on the whole, continue to stand together and work together to tackle the challenges of the Corona in terms of health and economics in the new parliamentary year and that we remain too good for unspeakable motivational research and freely fluid conspiracies. Let them stay on obscure Internet forums and not become a political method in Denmark. The cooperation and cohesion and the ability to tackle the corona relatively well than so many others seem to have even led to a new measurement earlier this week showing that confidence in us politicians is at its highest level for a long time, although there is still a long way to go. We have made broad agreements many times before, reached broad and sustainable settlements. Right now, there are negotiations on early retirement, green car taxation and strengthened police. The government will increase security in vulnerable residential areas and this morning have presented initiatives against unsafe behaviour. Of course, the government must resist and the political debate must show the differences in attitude, but in the end, debate and negotiation should lead to compromise and result. This is the way the Social Democrats work and our desire for the new parliamentary year. If we do, I am sure that in 2030 I am sitting with my morning coffee and thinking back to these years with pride that we together made good decisions, so we handled an epidemic and made Denmark better, more green and fairer. I shall conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the forthcoming Assembly should continue to take rapid steps in the work of leading Denmark in a greener and fairer direction. The Danish Parliament therefore believes that further and ambitious climate policy measures should already be adopted in the coming session, which will help to bring Denmark to the end of 70%. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, efforts on nature, the environment and biodiversity must be improved. The Folketing is working to reduce economic inequality, poverty and unemployment, as well as strengthening our model of solidarity in society. The common welfare must also be developed in addition to the demographic features. The Folketing works for equal opportunities for all children, minimum standards in day care institutions, dignified care for the elderly and better care in health care. The Folketing will strive for broad cooperation and get Denmark as best as possible through the current pandemic. Restoration must be based on responsibility, justice and sustainability with investments in welfare, green conversion and jobs. • V 1). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091418	Thank you. And that is now part of the further debate. We now have 45 minutes for brief remarks to Mr. Jesper Petersen. First, it's Mrs. Sophie Løh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091429	Thank you to the rapporteur. We in the Left would like to stand together on all the things that are drawing Denmark in the right direction, while in return we reserve the right to fight all the things that make Denmark poorer. That is why I would like to start by asking the Social Democrat rapporteur how many jobs are created by raising taxes as a government and introducing an extra tax on Danish entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091455	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091459	But Sophi Løhde is right that underneath it of course there are some political differences. And we think it is okay, for example, that we should. As far as capital taxation is concerned, some of the very large tax concessions granted under previous governments, which have typically benefited the most wealthy Danes, we are talking about the five to ten richest percentage we are going back and using some of the funds in the proposals that we think are fair. It is, of course, a fair political priority to look at it differently, but that is how we see it. We think it is fair that we should, for example, do something about it. in order to be able to implement a right to a previous pension, then in relation to some of the rather massive tax cuts that were given to some of the most wealthy Danes and investors, which I will also mention in this context, because that is what the question is about saying that they must therefore contribute a little more again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091548	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091552	Thank you for your answer. I just wish there had been an answer to the question I asked, namely: how many jobs does the Social Democracy create by introducing an extra tax on Danish entrepreneurs? When I ask the question, it is because I am puzzled by a government that writes in its draft budget that the government is concerned, and I quote: to create good conditions for the recovery of the Danish economy by securing risk capital for Danish entrepreneurs. And it seems to me that the government has chosen with surgical precision to come up with a proposal to increase the tax on risk capital, so that growth companies and entrepreneurs, the ones we have to live on, will now be more difficult to attract the necessary capital. How many jobs does it create? Does it even create a single one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091639	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091643	Now that Mrs Sophie Løhde is interested in the draft budget, I would like to say that the draft budget also includes the provision of more capital which can be made available to companies in addition to some of the schemes that already exist. It is part of the draft budget. And you can then discuss that because it exists in contrast to the Left, which does not have one; you have not brought one, even if you said a month ago that you would bring it. And then we could have discussed this. You haven't done that. The only thing we have heard from the Left in terms of economic policy is some outbidding, and then there was a VAT proposal that would cost 50 billion. kr., and who didn't really move.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091717	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091720	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the speech today in the opening debate. I still think you can get paper papers, even during the week. I don't think it's just this weekend, but maybe it'll be 30 years from now when mr. Jesper Petersen sits and looks back, only on weekends and maybe even in electronic form. But what I'm gonna ask, sir. Jesper Petersen about is about the island of Lindholm, which the government has dropped, in return for a new exit center. I think the Prime Minister said in the election campaign back in 2019 that in any case there would be a new exit centre. It shouldn't be at Lindholm, it should be somewhere else, but at Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland one still longs away to see what it is then for something the Social Democracy will propose. From the draft budget that we have received and which Mr. Jesper Petersen is so happy about it because then we can see how things are... doesn't show that there's money for a new exit center. So my question is: what is really happening around Kærshovedgård? Is that supposed to be closed? Are the most criminals supposed to be moved somewhere else? And when will we know anything? When does the government have a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091824	On the question of the exit centre, the position is the same. It is still the government's desire to separate the criminal foreigners from others, just as an improvement has been made for the families who were in Soulsmark, by dividing it into the right categories and that there will also be a third exit centre. I understand that consideration is still being given to where it can best be placed, but the government's policy remains that of doing so. As far as this subject as well as other subjects is concerned, we are happy to discuss it with the Danish People's Party and get this matter settled, and as soon as there is a proposal for it, I am convinced that the Danish People's Party will be involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091908	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091912	But this is something that really creates insecurity in a part of the country, and now I understand this morning that there has also been a press conference to combat insecurity-building things and things that are going on. Here we have something that creates really great insecurity. There is a lot of crime associated with Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland, and in the surrounding cities you scream for a solution. The previous government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, had a solution. We had the island of Lindholm. We said that these most criminals, these hard-boiled people, are going out on an island, because then they can be told that their conditions in Denmark may be in such a way that they could help us get out of the country. For the very best thing is that they come out of Denmark, get away from Denmark. But for now, five quarters have passed and nothing has happened. Well, how long do the people in Central Jutland have to wait for clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008091956	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092000	On the way, Thulesen Dahl goes on to discuss the whole issue of return, and I would say this is a subject in which I hope that in the session that is now coming we can also find each other in connection with some of the measures that the government is proposing there, that is to say, some additional means to enable us to send more homes which are not entitled to be here or who have committed crime. Part of it has to be a third exit centre. We just think that it is a well-known debate that the solution found with Lindholm was all too expensive. There we can spend taxpayers' money better, and there we are finding out where the last exit centre should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092033	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092043	Thank you. I have listened to the fact that the Social Democrats want an ambitious climate policy, and that is a very good thing. This week, Information brought a climate appeal from 139 prominent business leaders, researchers, civil society organisations and political organisations, and all these companies, people and organisations require action. So I would say quite specifically: if you want an ambitious climate policy, social democracy will help to follow the Climate Council's recommendation for a 50-54 percentage reduction in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092124	The debate on where that figure should lie, I do not think we will be able to resolve it now. But it is a discussion that lies here, that is, what the milestone is for 2025. And you will then have it with the climate minister, that is, with regard to what the level should be, and there will be different bids from different parties, but there is no doubt that there will be a bid. I cannot say today what that percentage should be, and I think Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen knows that too. I welcome the fact that there is such a large, American-style momentum behind the debate on climate and green transition; we need that. And I believe that this government is setting a much greener direction than what we have seen in the past, and that together in our parties we have managed to make a hugely ambitious climate law and are well in the process of making agreements that bring us that way. What I was trying to do in the speech was also to look a little hopeful and a little optimistic that we can actually do that. And I also hope that the next Assembly will offer a series of agreements where our parties can stand together to make progress on the green agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092232	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092236	Hope is good, but hope requires action. If we are to call our climate policy ambitious, does the rapporteur not agree that we need to follow knowledge in this area; then we cannot have a hockey stick waiting until the end of the day to deliver on the reductions? So, in the rapporteur's view, can a policy that fails to reach the Climate Council's recommendations for a 50-54 percent reduction be called ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092305	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092308	I do not think that there are countries that have a more ambitious climate policy than Denmark does, in other words, in relation to achieving a 70% reduction. Then there is a discussion about what the milestone should be, and we will have that. But I really think it is a pity that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen does not take on a little more honour in relation to everything that has happened so far, but that she gives the impression that nothing is going on. I tried to make a brief list in my speech here, because we are in full swing: energy policy, industry, we are negotiating car taxation right now, we are making huge investments in green research and so on, which will bring us in this direction. And I think we should be pleased that we have already achieved this in five quarters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092345	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092351	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In the SF we are immensely concerned that the rapporteur can read good climate headlines in the newspaper in 2030. I'm not sure we can help with the lycra for the bike ride, but at least the good headlines. We are also concerned about these, and that is actually why I am a little concerned about asking about the hockey staff, because Danish climate policy has been turned into a discussion about a hockey stick. The recommendation from here should be if you couldn't tip the hockey stick a little, so you got some CO2 There's a lot we can do now and which may be a little boring, but there's all the technology we know. The rapporteur said a little about this: it is something like taking out climate-laden agricultural land, but much more of it, and it is taking hot water out of the underground instead of using coal in the power stations. So how much will the rapporteur's party do of all that we know if we are to put away this year's exciting discussions on research and development?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092456	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092458	We can get a good deal of what we know now, and we will also be able to take further steps together. Later this year we will be discussing agriculture, but it will be with agriculture as it is with other areas, so that you can very quickly make quite large reductions in Denmark's CO2 then the climate load is the same. We've just lost jobs and profits in the meantime. So we have to go forward in a way where it all goes up. But yes, we can come a long way with things that we already know. In fact, the climate programme showed on the other day that it was then taken as if it were a political initiative, and it wasn't an overview and one, I think, very positive announcement that we can achieve the 70-percent objective with what we know now, when you mature it, scale it and get the technologies that are going to play together. So I believe more and more that we have succeeded in doing so, even though we could doubt from the start of the parliamentary term how we should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092601	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092604	In the climate struggle we just can't just believe, and that's why we in the SF are preoccupied with when the Climate Council says we can reach 60%. of CO2 So will the Social Democracy follow the recommendation of the Climate Council and get agreements made for CO2 already this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092630	I can't do that, and you have to relate not only to percentages, but also to some consequences along the way. Now I mentioned agriculture a moment ago, and the same is true of car taxation that we are talking about now. As the speech showed, I am from South Jutland, and Mrs Signe Munk is from Central Jutland. There are, then, many families who need one, if not two cars, for everyday life to be connected, and we know technology there now, when we could say that they should just drop having a fossil car right away and that we are taxing them completely. But then they wouldn't have the opportunity to make their lives hang together, and then it's that we get the yellow vests out, and we don't have to do that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092706	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092710	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. First I heard Jesper Petersen say, "Good luck." I hope we agree that the condition for welfare is that some companies make some money, that some Danes are at work and pay some tax, so we can afford the welfare we all have. What worries me is when ideology gets in the way of common sense or what is good for Denmark, I would say. Then the rapporteur cannot say a little about what those people who have now become unemployed because of corona have to live on when the government puts something on the table that pulls people away from the labour market instead of creating new jobs. The Arne pension alone causes a drop of 9,000. I understand that, of course, because the government ideologically believes that it is right. And the fact that we stand in different places ideologically is fine. We just disagree. But the prerequisite for even being able to speak welfare is that more people get to work instead of being pulled out of the labour market. So what is the plan to create more jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092818	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092822	When Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen may have experiences with ideology standing in the way of sometimes reaching agreements and such things, I assume he is talking about the last parliamentary term and being in government at that time. At that time, it was a little difficult to get your own financial law to go up because of some very ideologically justified top-tax proposals. But we're in agreement with Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen in saying that we must pursue an economic policy in Denmark that means that we have a strong and healthy economy, that unemployment is low, that we have a solid competitiveness. It is also the picture of Danish politics in its starting point that we have a strong and healthy economy. Competitiveness is good, there are trade records, low government debt, etc., and there will actually be 70,000 people in the workforce in the years we are looking forward to. So yes, there will be a little less, because we will be offering some of the people who have the longest and hardest working lives an early retirement, but there will still be 70,000 out on the labour market in the same period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092923	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008092926	But when we adopt political decisions that go one way, they should be followed by decisions that go the other way. Now I understand that this is a discussion which is then beneficial in the financial law negotiations. I'm hearing that from some of the parties that are gonna make one of these. But the government or the Social Democratic Party must have thought that, when we introduce a new transfer income which has nothing to do with wear and tear, I understand, because if you work half the time in office all your life and then you've just been there long enough, then you're obviously worn out and you're supposed to have the so-called pension. These are just the ones I am asking for: what are these measures when you think it is so important that people should be withdrawn from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093005	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093010	Yes, people who have been working for 40 years maybe in a slaughterhouse or in a construction work, or whatever it is, then worn out. I think that way of distorting that discussion is not right. But on the other hand, I would say that this is probably due to a political difference in how to do so. We do not think that we should make new unemployment benefit reforms or should reduce the top tax or anything else that would live out as a classic labour supply reform. But we do have a problem with the fact that too many young people do not enter the labour market and that too many with immigrant backgrounds are not in the labour market. We need to upgrade and retrain more so that they can hold onto a job. I hope we can agree with the Conservatives on this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093049	Thank you. Because of some technique, it's gonna be Mai Villadsen's turn first. Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093057	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There has been a lot of talk recently about the hockey staff in the Danish climate debate, in particular by the government itself. And preserved, I might understand that it sounds a little attractive to wait until technology makes it easier and cheaper to get some CO2 but I would like to question whether it is a responsible policy to pursue, because we do not think so in the Enhedslisten. We believe that there are two ways to go, and right now the government is going the wrong way. It is the uncertain road, the hockey pole road, where you do something, is preserved, but far too little, and puts your trust in the technology too much. We believe that we should take the responsible path, where we spend all the resources that are possible, to pursue known technologies, get those CO2 Do not the government and the rapporteur think that the hockey trail is to gamble with the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093202	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093206	I think it's a bit harder to think about that hockey stick metaphor, but what is meant and understood is that when you make some decisions now about some investments, it's not always right at once that you see the gain of them. And it's no different than when you've made energy reconciliations in the past, and you've decided to make new offshore wind farms, or whatever it was: you make an offer that goes on for a few years, and then you realize the prize. That is, of course, very much what we are talking about here, and if you want to do it so abruptly, it will have some social consequences that we are not interested in. What is crucial is that we reach the goal; that is what we have committed ourselves to and, of course, simply implemented a law, and that is where I think that we will actually take a great many good decisions together, both on energy and soon on transport, and agriculture will also come up with more on where we are actually doing very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093306	Mrs. Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093310	Now it is the government itself that has chosen to put on the skates and talk a lot about the hockey stick. That is why I think it is appropriate to ask, and I would like an answer from the rapporteur on what the smart path is. I could give you a small example. If we say I owe you 1,000 kroner. until the end of the year, is it so most responsible that I put money aside every day to make sure that I can pay you back, or should I hope that I can scrape a scratch card the day before New Year and then find the money? Is that not the choice we face on behalf of the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093346	No, I actually think that's a completely wrong picture, very wrong actually. For what lies in it is such a form of gambling, and that a lucky event, the day before the money is due, must make it possible to achieve it, and that is not the case. We are making decisions now, investing now, starting research and development now, which eventually gives us the reductions, in Mai Villadsen's picture debt relief that is needed for it to all be paid in the end. But there's no gambling, there's no waiting for some fix; it's very thoughtful that this is the way we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093422	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093426	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Exactly two weeks ago, I took part in the debate on the DR2 and the attitude of the rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen made me pretty upset. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen made it clear that there is no money to help Danish companies, because the money must fit, as he said. And frankly, it sounds a little hollow, all the time that during the corona crisis the government has allowed itself to send Danish crowns to Africa, to the EU and to unemployed foreigners. We have a number of industries and a number of companies in Denmark that are so bleeding. Restaurants, café owners, the travel and tourist industry, taxi hauliers and others in the affected industries are left with a gigantic bill. Their accounts are bleeding, and it offers the prospect of fatal fates as a result of bankruptcy, unemployment and everlasting debt. How does the government feel about sending money to Africa, to the European Union and to unemployed foreigners, when Danish families and Danish companies are so let down?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093539	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093542	I do not really think that is a fair picture either. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen used to be a friendly and forward-looking guy, so I have to revisit that program if I want to see a rare moment when you get a different picture. There are industries that are having a hard time right now... it's absolutely clear. That is why we did so in the spring too, with very extensive aid packages, compensation for wages, compensation for fixed costs, etc., we helped companies through. Now we're in a new place, compared to what we have to do to benefit our economy. And it's all about stimulating demand as much as we can, so those companies have some customers who want to spend some money with them. At the same time, it is a question of keeping the infection down, so you dare to go to a restaurant, or so it is reasonable to do so, if that is what we are talking about. So that is what we are doing with our policy now and with the financial bill that lies, in other words going all the way to the limit of what we can to stimulate the economy, we getting the holiday money out and doing everything we can to boost demand and now with a new agreement this morning to help exporting companies. So I actually think that we are very strongly engaged in economic policy in order to get us through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093649	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093652	Thank you. But one has just failed the many companies that suffer from injunctions and recommendations, which mean that there are no customers and no compensations that are sufficient but leave it alone. When we negotiated the epidemic law in March, we were the only party that wanted to maintain the right to compensation for businesses. We were voted down. That's too bad. Now we need to negotiate a new epidemic law. Will the Social Democratic Party help to secure in the new epidemic law a right to compensation for the companies that are being closed off with injunctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093726	As the aid packages are now, if you have been ordered to keep closed, there has also been compensation, and there must of course be for companies that will thus be subject to real restrictions to keep closed. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund should go with the Minister for Health to conduct the negotiations. But basically, I think it has to be said that our corona management has kept the infection down and has got our economy through better than the vast majority of other countries. And we can be satisfied with that together in here, that is to say that we have actually succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093803	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093808	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I would like to address a proposal presented by the Prime Minister in his speech last Tuesday. Before presenting her proposal, the Prime Minister warned us that it was such a rather wild proposal, and then I thought, "Oh, my God, we're going to send a rocket to Mars or something!" But it turned out that the wild proposal was that there were a few selected nursing homes and a few schools and a few day care institutions, which were to be set free from the bureaucracy of Christiansborg, in a few selected municipalities. And I really want to know if sir... Jesper Petersen can elaborate on what is so wild by failing to impose bureaucracy on selected institutions in the welfare state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093848	Well, that was a proposal that attracted a lot of attention, and I understand very well that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh raises this issue, because I know that it is also a matter of his heart to work with this whole bureaucracy that has been going on in the public sector. But one can say that the wild thing is that it is so much in the opposite ditch of how it has been over many years, when there have been more rules requiring documentation, things to be reported and all sorts of other things to be done. It has certainly always been well-intentioned, but it can also end up in a situation where there is too little time and too little focus on what the task is really about and where there is too little room for the skills of the employee who is responsible out there. So, sir. For my sake, Alex Vanopslagh must flag that there is something here that he really agrees with the government and that he would have liked to have had even more of it. And who knows, hopefully this will actually prove to be something that succeeds and that freedom under responsibility we can give more of if we, as politicians, then manage to stay away every time a problem arises and do not come up with new short-term solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093950	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008093953	Thank you. Could you imagine going further than just saying that only seven municipalities should have this freedom? Could it not be said that it is all the municipalities that want it? What stands in the way of spreading this good, a little unambitious and not very wild idea, but good idea, to more than seven municipalities? One could say, for example, that it was, yes, let us say, all primary schools or a primary school in each municipality that could have a completely free framework, or go beyond that and say that this is something that should apply throughout the country. So, what is the argument that this should only apply in seven municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094026	It is, of course, going quite far when the state shaves it down to an absolute minimum of things and the municipalities do it too. We'll let them try that, and hopefully we'll have some experience we can use widely. However, with regard to the very call to try to reduce these demands, I would say that we would also like this to be done in general terms in our policy and in other areas, just as the municipalities themselves have the opportunity to turn down their municipally decided demands on the institutions, and that is an invitation that we can give together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094100	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094106	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The Social Democrats agreed in June 2019 to the Alternative's requirement of 70%. CO2 But we are very disappointed that the Socialists have voted against green proposals from the Alternative, for example. solar PV scheme, climate tax on meat and stop oil and gas extraction in the North Sea. Is the proposal that the Socialists will vote in favour of in the future to promote sustainable conversion, especially now that the government is being met with massive criticism because CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094150	If sir... Torsten Gejl asks for such a general signature on the policy of the Alternative, I cannot give it, in other words on all the proposals that the Alternative may have. But we are happy to work together with the alternative and for the power that lies in your party's work to come up with ideas and suggestions and push this whole green development. Respect for that, and hopefully we will also be able to make even more agreements in the coming year. But such a whole series of signatures to the alternative's proposal at once I cannot just stand and give in that way. I believe that the political considerations are well known. We want to move towards the same goal, and then we can sometimes look a little differently at the methods of it or the order of things, and exactly in the case of taxes on, for example. After all, we are concerned about the social side that may be in this context. I think it is well known that these are some of the places we can look at the measures differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094248	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094251	After all, we can make a balance on the social side. But I have another question. With the Paris Agreement, the richest countries, including Denmark, have undertaken to pay 100 billion. kr. to the poorest countries in climate aid. The organisation CARE has calculated that Denmark's share is 5 billion. kr. In the Finance Act, however, the government has only set aside half, which we in the Alternative think is highly worrying because we are failing the most climate-vulnerable people on the planet. Why does the government refuse to pay the 5 billion? kr. in new funds to which we have committed ourselves and which form a fair and fair part of the rich countries' overall climate aid? Now I'm not asking about old money, now I'm asking about new money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094327	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094331	It is possible that we do not reach the full amount and that we do not do so now, but if we look at the developments that are actually taking place in that area, then we will also see more about how, with our development aid, we support countries that have problems due to climate change or where we can make investments locally, so that it also benefits their green conversion there. So that is absolutely a consideration, sir. Torsten Gejl can be found in development policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094356	Then it's Mrs. Inger Støjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094406	Thank you. I hope that we agree that entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for the very creation of jobs and, therefore, also money for welfare and everything we all want. That's why I'm actually gonna give Mr. Jesper Petersen has the opportunity to get the answer to the question that Mrs Sophie Løh rightly and very wisely asked about earlier, namely about the link between the government's wish to raise entrepreneurial tax and the number of jobs that come out of it. Sir. Jesper Petersen did not get the answer at first, but now Mr. Jesper Petersen then had some time to consider it, so it might be good to get the answer now. Because I actually think there are a lot of people out there, too, with an entrepreneur in the stomach, thinking: Okay, is that how the government looks at us, that is to say, that you want to tax us in a way that takes away the desire?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094504	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094507	I hope that is not the way to look at it. It would also be against the spirit of the entrepreneur to sit back and give up. I do not think it is a proper picture of what the situation is about entrepreneurship, nor is it a proper picture of the government's financial law. And that is where we have the benefit of seeing what the Left really means and wants. But also for entrepreneurs, the need is for some capital to be made available. There are private opportunities for this, just as with the Finance Act something more will be made available with some of the arrangements we have decided on politically; now we will be given more impetus with the Finance Bill. But what you also need is for there to be demand, and it does not come up with silly VAT proposals, which the whole economy thinks are bad and which must be withdrawn. After all, it comes from pursuing a powerful, expansive policy that ensures that we stimulate and benefit the economy and ensure that there is some turnover while we have a setback and help industrial companies now, as we do with money for automation and other things. It will benefit them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094610	Thank you. Mrs. Inger Støjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094613	Well, now I was actually trying to ask really nicely just now, and I'm gonna try to do that again. But I'd say I think, sir. Jesper Petersen might as well get the answer to this question now: how many jobs do you know that the government will introduce an extra tax on entrepreneurs? And, as I said, I think as well, sir. Jesper Petersen can get the answer now, because we're going to hold on to this. We want entrepreneurship in the Left, we want more jobs, we want to create a society where entrepreneurs have good conditions so that more Danes can get a good job and so that we can get more money for it Thank you for that.), we all want to. So how many jobs does raising the tax on entrepreneurship create?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094656	Thank you for that! Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094659	But the whole confession that we need that • entrepreneurship, new companies that will, and which may not succeed immediately, but which can do so over the years, that is to say, create more jobs in the end we are in complete agreement on. If the Left has any new ideas on that, then come forward with them... come forward with your own proposal and let's discuss it and see what we can agree on. And sometimes we encounter some political disagreements about how, for example, we find ourselves. capital taxation must be, but that does not change the fact that, with the current financial law, there is additional capital that entrepreneurs can also benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094732	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094739	Thank you, President. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party particularly noted in the Prime Minister's speech was the open recognition that immigration policy has failed. I hope that has been heard, even outside the Parliamentary Chamber here. I hope that Mr. Mogens Lykketoft has heard, I hope. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen has heard, and frankly I think they owe the Danes an apology for having led Denmark where we are today with foreign policy. But we also need to hear what the government is going to do to remedy this. The Prime Minister said in his speech that those who would like Denmark to hold on to us are in complete agreement. But what about those who do not want Denmark? What about those who put the Koran over democracy? What about those who do not want gender equality? What about those who don't want freedom of speech? What about those who harass Jews and homosexuals in our big cities around the country? What about all those who don't want Denmark? Should they still be here, sir? Jesper Petersen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094842	So it is true for everyone that when crime is committed or you exercise social control, you enter into imam contracts and other things, it must be punished where it is possible to do so, and in some cases it can also lead to you not being able to be in Denmark anymore. And that is where the government is proposing further measures to ensure that more people can actually be returned. The whole description, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt gives of the problems that exist, I agree, and there have been too many years of a, yes, wrong immigration and integration policy in Denmark. Some of the young people we are talking about now, with whom there are difficulties, have grown up, while the Danish People's Party has been one of the most powerful parties in the Danish Parliament, so in this way everyone has gradually played a part in this. But I hope, sir. Morten Messerschmidt has noted that only this morning new measures have been presented with a residence ban, stricter penalties, the possibility of confiscation, etc. That's where we look a lot alike, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094949	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008094952	Well, we would certainly like to embrace the fact that you can seize downcoats and cell phones and all the things the Prime Minister mentioned. That's really good. I don't think we're going to disagree on that. Where the disagreement arises is that the government would like to ensure that people are not allowed to stay in a parking lot, while we would like to go where they should not be staying in Denmark at all. What is the point is that the government is not willing to take the full step. Are we ever going to see a social democratic government break up with the conventions that prevent the people from getting through the tight immigration policy that they want, so that we can get rid of types like Levakovic and all sorts of other criminals who should never have been in Denmark? Will we ever get there, sir? Jesper Petersen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095029	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095032	After all, the discussion is serious, and it is very important, and I can hear that there are also now points where the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats can find each other in terms of further concrete steps to overcome the insecurity-building behaviour that is taking place in many places and the crime that is being committed. And to the extent that there are opportunities for actual repatriation, we would like to do so. But to give people the impression that, from one day to the next, we can send everyone out, whether they have citizenship or not, and that we can politically just fix it, I do not think, on the other hand, that is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095108	Thank you. Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095115	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. A great deal of emphasis was placed on climate by the Socialist rapporteur, and I also took note of the question that Mrs Carsten Nielsen had from the Radical Left about the ambitions of the government's climate policy. That is why I would just like to know quite plainly: what is the reason why, when we now place such a decisive emphasis on the need to make great progress in reducing CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095159	There are some exciting and important negotiations going on there, and I hope that we can have a broad agreement that provides a long-term stable framework for car taxation, so that we can see what can be expected and can drive that development forward: get more electric cars, get those cars that are still fossil, pollute less and make a good contribution to reducing CO2 We have proposed what we said before the elections, and there is no wonder about that. What we have not heard since the report by the electric car commission came out is whether the Left actually agrees that just for one ordinary family car it should cost DKK 6,000-8,000. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We also think that there is a need to take account of people who need one or perhaps two cars, so that everyday life is linked to the fact that things have to be taken steps before we get there. But there must also be a substantial contribution for cars; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095258	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095302	Well, maybe there's just reason to correct sir. Jesper Petersen. I think it is a little sad that we are standing here and talking in the Chamber in complete untruth. For what is it that makes conventional cars, cars operating on petrol and diesel have to rise in proportion to the price that Mr. Jesper Petersen says? This is on the understanding that we will not spend any extra money on this change, and that is exactly what we are seeing, namely that the Social Democrats do not want to spend money on the green transition. That is something you talk about, it is something you would like to make big green speeches about on festive occasions, but when it takes economic space, the answer is no. So what is the reason why we are not going to add more money to the tax restructuring that we have just discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095340	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095345	I have noticed that, lately, the Left has moved on to such a little more, to a yes, lax approach to state funds, that is to say, constant outbidding over the spring period, the VAT proposal of the 50 billion. kr. that wouldn't be of any particular use other than punching a huge hole in the treasury. But I do not think it is quite fair to say that there is no money on the table either. In other words, see the budget proposals, where there will of course be much more money for green research, and also environmental and nature initiatives in a wide range of areas we give room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095423	Then we've got the answer, thank you for that. Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095430	I share the rapporteur's dreams of how wonderful it will be when the kids sleep for so long that I can drink coffee and read the newspaper before they get up. But children cannot wait; their childhood is now. We are negotiating minimum standards and the money on the table is not enough for us to have proper standards with trained educators. I would therefore like to ask the Social Democratic Party whether we should not find together the money that is needed so that we can both get better educators and have the time when the leaders are in the office.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095502	I am not surprised that Lotte Rod raises this issue, and I know it is a matter which both she and the Radical Left attach great importance to. And that is also a reason why relationships around children and institutions are very much in the understanding paper and were a very important part of last year's financial law negotiations and it can be done again. And I think it is both a question of norms, but also a question of trained staff, of time, of pedagogy. I remember a good experience in the election campaign, where we both visited a kindergarten in South Jutland, who really worked with music as part of the pedagogy there. And having those competences and being able to do so is also part of that discussion. This requires a priority, including economic ones, and if the Radical Left goes into the financial law negotiations with it, I am sure that the Minister for Finance will hear what the Radical Left says and that this is something that will be discussed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095601	Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095605	Well, thank you. I would like to know what the Social Democrats' ambition is. So, does the Social Democratic Party disagree with the fact that we need both educated educators and have to take out the time of the leaders? Or do you actually agree with that, but haven't you given it your own priority because you'd rather spend the money on Arne?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095627	I do not think that is right. I think we are demonstrating this in the economic policy that is now in place, namely that we can have both set aside the money and committed each other to implementing minimum standards in 2025, we should have been through this and, at the same time, have been able to afford and have found the funding to implement a right to a previous pension for those who have been very many years on the labour market in grueling jobs. It can be done. If we are to do more in relation to standards, quality, education, then we need economic priorities. If we can agree on it, we will have to look into the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095701	The last person to be able to make a brief comment to the Social Democrat rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095713	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. After all, it is important to be able to imagine the future you want to create in order to be able to act on it. What I would like to ask is the natural crisis, the biodiversity crisis, which we are in the midst of and which is crying out for action. Will the Social Democracy help to provide proper protection in Denmark by our nature, what we do not have today? Will the Social Democracy help to create a biodiversity law that sets a framework around how it is that we reach the beautiful society in the future, so that we still have a great variety of butterflies and beetles and bees by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095753	Yes, as is the case with many other things, there is a long tradition in our party to care about that topic • all the way back to good Stauning in terms of providing proper nature protection. That is what is wanted today. In the past, we have been able to agree with the SF to give priority to this in the financial legislation negotiations, so that it is further on the draft budget that we now have some funds to negotiate on there too, which we need to find out how we should use together. This could be one of the topics, if that is what SF attaches great importance to when you enter the negotiations. I also know that the Minister for the Environment has now called for these discussions on biodiversity and nature, just as we are already in the process of more untouched forests. There must, for example, be one. also be several natural national parks. So we are heading in the direction described and which I think both our parties would very much like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095859	That's right. It is one thing to find the money to take action, another thing to put up the legislative framework that protects our nature, so that we do not, for example, do it. That is what I am asking, not so much what should be put off of money, no, but whether we are willing to take the legislative steps needed to protect our nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095936	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008095938	There is no doubt that we need to do more on a number of points in order to take better care of our nature and biodiversity. For example, I find it very worrying right now to see this development with oxygen loss in many places. This is really bad and, of course, a subject that we need to take seriously. I can only see that on this whole agenda we are moving in the right direction. Finally, let us continue this conversation elsewhere. Thank you, President-in-Office. ) I understood that there were more who would like to, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008100013	We have adopted some rules on speaking time, which unfortunately means that we have now finished with the first rapporteur in the first round, and that is why we are grateful to Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen. Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008100037	After all, I have been allowed to give the opening speech this year for the Left as such a sort of replacement. Our President, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. But he's getting better, and he'll be back soon. And that is what we need, because we have a government that seems to be going to lead Denmark back to sir. Anker Jørgensen's time. It sounds very good in itself if you tend to nostalgia, and he was a cozy guy. At that time it was also easier to choose which series to follow when there was only one channel, and bad climate was something that was solved by opening the window. But it was also a time of galloping unemployment, high public deficits and economic irresponsibility. Sir. Anker Jørgensen introduced the post-retirement wage in the same way that the Prime Minister today will introduce a new right to earlier retirement for particularly selected healthy groups. At that time the country was heading towards the abyss, but the Prime Minister must have forgotten that, because, as she says, Mr. Jørgensen Anker her political role model. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister stood on the platform and rejoiced at all the reforms that have created a healthy Danish economy, and therefore I am surprised that the Prime Minister has chosen a completely different path • a path where Denmark becomes poorer and reforms are rolled backwards. A great many Danes have already lost their jobs, and according to the government's economic plan there will be more unemployed in the coming years, not fewer. And the common fund? Yeah, it's getting empty. The government took over a room for manoeuvre of more than 28 billion. kr. from the Left and the former bourgeois government, but now most money is spent, and the government has no answer to how to create lasting growth and Danish jobs. Instead, we're all gonna go for a ride in the attic and find our chicken tart and Afghan furs, because we seem to be heading for the 1970s. We in the Left want something else; we do not want to go back to the past; we want to go into the future. And the future is green. It's not up for discussion. The only choice we can make is whether we want to be first or whether we want to be last. Will we be the first to be on the beat and bring the green jobs to Denmark, those with the sharpest minds and the best hands, those who deliver solutions to the world's challenges and thus ensure sustainable growth, jobs and first place in the green export market? Or will we come after when the train is on, foot dragging and with the hat in our hand? The Left believes that the choice is obvious, but it does not come on its own or, for that matter, from closing its eyes and hoping that new technology will solve all the problems of New Year's Eve 2029. Wishful thinking is not a strategy, nor is it an option. If Denmark uses the government's hockey stick, we'll miss the climate target. We must act and we must actively engage in the fight, which is why the Minister for Climate Affairs is wrong when he says that it is rabid, because it is not, it is sensible. But growth, the whole prerequisite for creating a better society tomorrow, is challenged. Where will the new Mærsk, the new Novo Nordisk or the new Vestas come from? Or, for that matter, where should some of the many small and medium-sized enterprises that are crucial to the Danish economy come from? The desire to become an entrepreneur is stifled when conditions are not good enough, and they are not today. The government has already raised taxes by billions, and more harmful socialist tax increases are on the way. It is a direct attack on Danish entrepreneurs and Danish companies. It costs jobs, it costs wealth, it costs welfare and it turns out the light in the eyes of enterprising Danes. Many of our entrepreneurs are otherwise trying to create a better world, but the government's response to them is higher tax on entrepreneurship, more expensive loans in the bank and fewer hands and heads in a future where we need more. That's not how we get anywhere. The last year has not only cost money, it has also cost money in the field of foreigners. The Prime Minister is capable of being strict in rhetoric, but here too the government chooses to step back three steps by giving unemployed immigrants 2,000 kroner. extra per month tax-free. It is damaging integration and it maintains immigrants on passive public support. After all, the government has also chosen to burn off all the money that the former blue majority allocated to the third exit centre. The criminal foreigners have won, and they have been allowed to stay at Kærshovedgård with insecurity, violence and assault as a result. Just ask the locals in Ikast-Brande Municipality. Left wants another way. Work must pay off, and more immigrants must be self-supporting. We need to put more pressure on social control so that more women can have their freedom. The expelled criminal aliens must leave, and until they do so, they must be at a third exit centre as far away from ordinary people as possible. We want a strict and consistent policy on foreigners. The future comes, both for Denmark as a nation, but also for each and every one of us as people, and even though you can sometimes feel that the young are getting older and the older are getting younger, none of us can run out of time. Hopefully we'll be old someday. We have all seen the horrible footage from a nursing home, and in particular a name has burned down: Else Marie Larsen. It is about unworthy treatment, humiliation and lack of care. You just can't help being tagged when you see these footage. Then you get scared, you don't want to grow old. Let me be quite clear: no one in Denmark should fear getting old. Therefore, the Left will end with the culture in which the citizens have ended up being for the system's sake instead of vice versa, by creating a freer framework for the many skilled employees and managers who deliver welfare every day, and by firing the bad ones; by focusing on free choice and creating free nursing homes in all municipalities; and by setting up boards at nursing homes with room for residents, relatives, employees and local fiery souls. As much as we think of our old age, we think of our youth. Nor can it be undone. It must feel unfair to be in your youth right now. We are in the midst of a global pandemic that has put an end to almost all the fantastic experiences that previous generations have had: traveling to distant countries, parties that last until the bright morning and that one lately forgets, one's first work, study start and new friends for life. We are also in the midst of an economic crisis, and right now, when young people were going to get started, tens of thousands have lost their jobs and businesses have turned the key. We are opposed to a climate crisis that may seem quite incalculable. It is no wonder that young people feel that there is not much to look forward to if young people feel that they are looking into a large black hole. But the young people need to know that this is not the whole truth. To quote someone who was only disguised as an adult: If anyone says it all goes to hell/do not believe them. • Young people need to know that they are needed. Young people need to know that the future belongs to them. We, the adults, only have it on loan. It is they who own tomorrow, and no matter what, there will always be one tomorrow. We have a government that will return to the past and a government that is in the process of copying the irresponsible economic course of the past. We're not going back to the good old days and telling ourselves that everything was better then. We are not going back to the past, we are going into the future. In those words, I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of V, DF, KF, NB and LA. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark is still in the middle of a crisis. What started as a health crisis has also developed into a serious economic crisis. The Danish Parliament notes that it is crucial that we pursue a growth-oriented policy and hold our hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs. This is the prerequisite for the prosperity of the Danes, the financing of welfare and the green transition. Parliament therefore expresses concern about the government's irresponsible economic policy and that the government places greater burdens on Danish companies. It costs Danish jobs. Instead, the government should go the opposite way. The Danish Parliament notes that, contrary to the promises to pursue strict immigration policies, the government has instead relaxed foreign policy in relation to, among other things, foreign policy. repatriations and integration services. Parliament stresses the importance of pursuing a tighter policy on foreigners. • V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101220	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. Now we have 45 minutes for short remarks, and first it is Mr. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101228	Thank you for your speech to Mrs Sophi Løhde and for your recovery to the President. The government's economic policy is very scolded, and I think that would have a slightly bigger • what should be said about credibility, and it would also provide a better opportunity to actually discuss it if the Left had then come up with a proposal as to what one would like to do. What actually happened when you were in government last time was that Mrs Sophie Løhde and her party prioritized giving tax relief on the municipal welfare of Else and others in the care of the elderly, and that when there was a crisis, you had to reduce the top tax, and that was to be done just a few years ago. The solution had to be to move forward further towards a higher retirement age, but not to do anything for those who were unable to cope with it. Is that what is still the political course of the Left? Is there stringency in it? At least we have an idea where the Left is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101335	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101337	First of all, I understand that socialists too are looking forward to the Left's draft budget. It is also very good, so there is something to look forward to, even for the Socialists. When we were in government, we were concerned about ensuring that Denmark became richer rather than poorer, because that is the whole prerequisite for us to be able to afford to invest in our welfare and in the green transition. And that is why we are so worried about this government's policy of withdrawing 10,000 from employment, using room for manoeuvre to withdraw especially healthy Danes from the labour market earlier on. It is, of course, room for manoeuvre which we could have used to invest in the green transition and to invest in ensuring that we can also give the Danes good cancer treatment in the future, and there is therefore a difference between being Left and Socialist. That is why our priority is that the prerequisite for an ambitious green transition and continued investment in welfare is that we do not make Denmark poorer, but richer and thus create jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101450	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101452	Yes, and Denmark will also be, and there will be many more people in the workforce, and we would like to see even more out there, but especially because they will have skills that can be used and people who are now cut off from the labour market will get in there. There are proposals for this which the Left does not seem to like very much. But I have to say that yes, I am actually looking forward to the Left coming up with an economic policy, and I think it is a pity that there is not. The only original idea that has been given so far since the elections was a VAT proposal of 50 billion. kr.s hole in the treasury without much benefit. When does the Left come up with something we can discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101526	Thank you. Now we get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101530	Somehow, you'd think that Mr. Jesper Petersen had missed the graduation debate here in the Danish Parliament, but we are now in the opening debate. The things that Mr. Jesper Petersen was very well answered in the final debate, but that does not alter the answer given by Mr Petersen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen gave back then. Denmark is not getting richer by the fact that this government is pursuing a policy of taxing Danish entrepreneurs more than less. Denmark is not getting richer by pulling 10,000 out of employment, as this government is doing. This means less money for the green transition, less money for our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101616	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned foreign policy in her excellent speech just now, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen was also the prime minister. It was a pleasure to hear that last Tuesday the Socialists had actually changed signals in relation to the foreign policy on which we have known the Social Democrats, i.e. back to Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and Mogens Lykketoft and those who have been behind the lax immigration policy together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and others. Now we come to the concrete initiatives, and there we in the Danish People's Party intend to help the government, if we can at all, to make some of the improvements that are being planned, and we will of course also press for more things than what the Prime Minister mentioned last Tuesday. But I would like to hear the Left's assessment of the proposal that has been made for a residence ban and a fine of DKK 10,000 if that ban is not respected. Does the Left not agree with the Danish People's Party that a fine is very good if you do not comply with a residence ban, but should you not actually be expelled from Denmark if you are not a Danish citizen and do not want to comply with a residence ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101728	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101729	I fully agree that the Prime Minister is good at being strict in rhetoric about foreign policy. It's just a big deal when you're also pursuing a policy where you're giving 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free every month for unemployed immigrants. It is very difficult to remove all the money for the third exit centre, even though it had been promised to the Danes before the elections that there would be a third exit centre. I note that the Danish People's Party would like to help the government. We'd be happy to lend a hand in the Left. We welcome the government's proposal for a residence ban, because there is nothing that an opposition can want more than when a government adopts the policy of the Left. President. - I call the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, during the summer meeting of the Left Group, proposed a residence ban, so we think it is a good thing that the government is now of the opinion. They should be commended for that part. In relation to the issue of a fine of 10,000 kroner. At first we think it sounds like something in the low end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101828	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101829	Yes, I think so too, not least in view of the fact that the fines that criminals receive in our ghettos are not being paid, and they are not being converted into prison either. So there's something crazy going on here. So if we can share the pressure on the government to ensure that if you do not pay your fines, then you get into the cage and then you stay there until you pay your fines and behave properly. That's one. The second is: does the Left not agree that it is not enough to pay a fine if you have already violated the rules and have been granted a stay ban to pay a fine for it? If you are not a Danish citizen, should you not be deported for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101910	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101912	In any case, we agree that in this area too there is a need to push the government. We think, 10,000 kroner. immediately sounds a little in the low end. I'm not sure that it's what deters these types of people who are responsible for an insecure behavior that it's something that makes them fear that part completely. So there is a need to tighten up, and I am pleased that the Danish People's Party will also contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101941	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008101943	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's clear emphasis that green action is not rabid, that is sensible. I can reassure the rapporteur that I am happy to wear rabid as an honorary label. It shows a little that it is probably neither red nor blue, but green that collects here, and that you cannot put one color in front of the other. Business calls for climate action. We have seen this, both with this appeal from a great many business leaders on the front page of Information this week, and last week, very specifically, Dansk Arbejd asked for a CO2 That is why I would like to ask: Will the Left help to introduce such a uniform, steadily increasing tax on greenhouse gas emissions, which I regard as neither rabid nor wild, but basically necessary to achieve in line with the green ambitions that we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102050	Yes, we certainly have a government that has chosen to look red rather than green. I think that famous hockey stick is the government's secret wand. At any rate, no one can really clear up what it is like to achieve the ambitious goals by 2030 by sitting back and hoping that new technology will now solve the whole New Year's Eve year 2029. We don't believe that in the Left. There is a need to act and we need to speed up because otherwise we will not achieve the common goals we have agreed across the Folketing. We in the Left believe that we need a green tax reform. It was, after all, one of the elements which the Left and the Radical Left succeeded in pushing into the agreement that we reached before the summer recess and which shows that this autumn the government is going to present a proposal for a green tax reform which also looks at a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102153	Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102156	Thank you. I'm really glad. I just want to confirm that this means that the Left will be involved in taking decisions that lead to significant, concrete CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102222	Yes, the Left would like that. We have one condition in relation to a green tax reform, and that is that it stays within the Left tax freeze, and so that when we put taxes or taxes on what we want less of, namely pollution, yes, we must similarly lighten taxes on everything we want more of. So, in respect of the Left's tax freeze, we would very much like to agree on a green tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102253	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102255	Thank you. On Tuesday, at the opening of the Folketing, there were a lot of young people in front of Christiansborg. The educational alliance was ready with the message of stopping cuts and instead of investing in education. I am glad they were there, but I am also really sorry that they again have that message. I am sorry because it is not even a year since we stopped the savings on education. Now the government has set up to finance the police with new savings on education. We believe this in the SF is the wrong way to go. I am astonished that the government continues to claim that this is not a saving when we know that it is about open house events and other necessary activities. In the SF, we are opposed to the savings. We want to invest in our education and that is why we believe that funding should be found elsewhere, and I hope that there is a majority in favour of this. I would therefore like to ask the Left's political rapporteur whether, in the negotiations on the police conciliation, the Left also expects to go against these savings and try to find funding for police reform elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102408	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102410	I also noted that there were a great many people who appeared on the streets outside Christiansborg in connection with the opening of the Danish Parliament. There was a demonstration, among other things. in relation to getting some climate action started now and not just postpone it all until 2028 or 2029, which is the government's plan, because then there will be enough new technology and save us. They want action and they want action now. We are ready to deliver that in the Left. The Left is also ready to give a clear commitment to the SF that we cannot support the government's savings in education, as they have now once again proposed last year, it was the country's free schools that got a trip with the savings knife in the government's finance bill, and this year it is the high schools and higher education that the government is proposing to use to finance the police. It is not a priority that we agree with, so that part of the Left, together with the SF, would like to ensure that should not be part of a final agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102510	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102511	I'm really glad to hear that. Then we really hope that we can get the savings on marketing funds out of the negotiations on police conciliation and find the funds elsewhere. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we in the Left will also say that we must of course invest some money. There has been a great deal of savings in education and, in particular, in higher education, a great deal has been saved, and it is here too that they are affected with regard to open house events and so on. Therefore, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is expected to be possible to support the investment of some money in education, given that so much has been saved in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102549	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102550	Yes, the Left has gone to the polls on a welfare promise, and it is about the fact that in the years to come more children and more elderly people will have to keep up too. But the money can only be used once, and they must be earned before they can be used there I think there is a lot that separates the Left and the SF. After all, we do not believe that higher taxes are the solution and the answer to Danish business and Danish entrepreneurs, and certainly not in the midst of a major economic crisis. On the contrary, there is a need for us to create sustainable growth and thus to create Danish jobs, because that is the whole prerequisite, that is, that we create growth with wealth, so that we can afford to invest in welfare and in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102634	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102636	In her speech, Mrs Sophi Løhde mentioned the importance of using the money we allocate to public welfare in a way that will benefit our citizens. Over the summer, there have been a large number of articles on private owners of settlements for socially vulnerable children, which even pulled very large funds out of the settlements for their own private consumption; there have been millions of dollars of wages; it has been said that one of the chains has sold its chain of housing for children to a large foreign capital fund. I would like to hear something: does Mrs Sophie Løhde and the Left think that it is a real priority for our welfare crowns if the money we give to settlements for socially vulnerable children can be stuck in private pockets, and if that is not the case I hope that is not the case, will the Left help to change the legislation so that it is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102743	I have also read the articles, and I also note that there are some of the things that are being described, which are therefore illegal today. That is why it is a question of us taking tough action against those who are crooks; unfortunately, they are found in different places in our society, too, fraudsters who are so cynical that they are trying to pull money out of the public sector. However, because there are a few scammers, we should not destroy it for the many talented people who are in the private, specialised offers to some of our most vulnerable people in society, people with disabilities, and should not create a ban that means they have to shut down their offers to citizens. We do not want to ban private offers in the social field. They solve so many important tasks and are so important to so many vulnerable people in this society, so we shouldn't shut them down and ban them. In the same way, we do not believe that we should prohibit Falck from coming and picking us up if we fall around in the Palace Square and need to call 112, or prohibit us from going to a private hospital if the public is unable to deliver an operation within a month. We wouldn't dream of banning that. Surely we should not punish people with disabilities by not being allowed to keep their specialized offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102855	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102856	Now my business was not at all to prohibit private people from being able to make offers, and that is not what I was asking. I could also hear from the answer to the previous question that the well-being of the free schools is very much at the heart of the Left. After all, we have an excellent free school area in this country, which we also like to protect in the Enhedslisten. The free schools have the special thing about the fact that the money we allocate from the public sector cannot be drawn out, because they must benefit the children. Is it really the view of the Left that we should have a free school system where it was possible to withdraw the money in order to get a little extra momentum in the area, or should we perhaps harmonise our social institutions so that they worked like free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102938	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008102942	Yes, I can confirm that the free schools are very close to the Left. We have a great and proud free school tradition in the Left, and that is also why we fought hard to pull out the foolish savings in the country's free schools proposed by the government last year in its draft budget. After all, we should not punish parents and children because they have chosen to go to a free school; many of them are also located in the rural areas of the country; on the contrary. That is also why we had the coupling rate reduced during our reign. And then I have to say that the government's proposal, which has been announced in the legislative programme on private specialized services, is a de facto ban; that is what is being proposed, because they must only be self-serving, they must not be private.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103026	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103028	Thank you. I love cars, and I'm passionate about them. I see them as works of art, and I think that veteran cars are cultural heritage. That's how many thousands of us feel. But for a great many Danes out there it is simply a necessary tool, and many need two. They don't live in inner Copenhagen and can't take the metro, and it may be that for some café latte segment on Østerbro, which has millions in free value, it can be hard to understand that you can't just buy a new car. But that's the reality for people out there. So my question to the Left today is: will the Left provide a guarantee that it will not be more expensive to buy, own or drive conventional cars out there so that we do not punish the families of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103109	I don't know if I love cars myself, but at least I'm happy to be able to have once in a while to transport me around the country, even when you're going around those places that don't just have a metro located around the corner. And that's the everyday life of a lot of Danes. They are completely dependent on having one, perhaps two cars, to be able to deliver the children, do the work, and make everyday life stick together. And our starting point in the Left for the negotiations on a green transformation of our transport sector is surely not that we are now going to make it all more expensive for the Danes. That is not why we reduced taxes when we were in government, so of course that is not how we are going to go to the negotiations. What we are aiming for is that we get more green cars on the roads and thus get a switch from the black to the green. It also requires that we invest some money in these negotiations where the government insists not to spend as much as a penny as soon as it is green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103212	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103213	Okay, so that was a long time christiansborgsniksnak so no guarantee. When I ask, it is because the Left has this slogan that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane, but yet the taxes on exports, on cars, increased taxes on cigarettes, increased taxes on traders' cash registers, increased taxes on banks, as the bill even said would be imposed on consumers. That is why what the Left is saying is not connected. There is a bourgeois solution to this, because you can lower the registration tax on electric cars, you can lower the electricity tax in general, and then you can give a big profit to the people who get rid of their old used diesel cars. It's the bourgeois solution, but it just takes you to be willing to restrict the state a little. But I would like to ask one more question: will the Left guarantee that it will not be more expensive for Danish families of children to drive in their conventional cars out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103255	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103257	The Left will not be involved in an agreement on green transport unless it also stays within the Left tax stop. This means that, overall, it must not become more expensive to be a Dane. We are also concerned about how to reduce taxes in relation to supporting an increase in green conversion. We have a target of one million green cars by 2030, while the government is proposing 100,000 more by 2030, because in relation to the target of 500,000, the Eldrup Commission has said that the 400 000 come all by themselves, and then it is 100,000 that is the level of ambition of the government. There we would like to draw them in a green direction, but not in a way, so that Danish families and Danes cannot continue to afford to have a car, perhaps two, to make everyday life hang together. Many of them also have a long way to go to work, far to the nearest daycare centre and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103350	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I will follow up on my colleague, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question, because it was actually an excellent question, and I do not think that the answer from the Left is quite crystal clear. Mrs Sophi Løhde mentioned earlier that you would like to tax some things that pollute more as long as you tax something else that is not so polluting, less. Does this mean that the Left would like to vote in favour of an agreement that would make petrol cars and diesel cars and the cars most Danes have more expensive as long as the electric cars and green cars are cheaper and the total revenue in the state treasury does not increase? Is this how it should be understood that everyday life, with the votes of the Left for some Danes, is potentially becoming more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103431	Yeah, that's our goal. That is also why I am saying that we will not be contributing to an agreement that does not respect the tax freeze. We do not think it should be more expensive to be a Dane, but we believe that it should be made more attractive to choose green and thus also support a development where we get much more green cars on the roads. That is also why, in the context of these negotiations, we are concerned that some fresh money needs to be brought in, otherwise only the Danes will be able to pay. That is why we are proposing to use the scope. That is why we are making reforms so that we can have funding in this way to achieve the objective, which, incidentally, I believe we are in complete agreement on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103509	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103510	If the political agreement ends with saying that green cars will be much, much cheaper and petrol and diesel cars will be a little more expensive, is it a total tax reduction, but petrol and diesel cars will be even more expensive? Is it an agreement that the Left will vote on? That is the question from the new bourgeois and now also from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103535	However, we are entering into the negotiations with a view to ensuring that taxes are not increased. That is why we, together with the government in the last period, have made several tax reductions. So does the rapporteur not think that the Left is going into the negotiating room with a goal of raising taxes? We do not participate in agreements that do not respect the tax freeze and that, overall, it will not be more expensive to be a Dane. At the same time, however, we are also saying clearly that if we are to avoid the families of children, ordinary Danes, who ultimately have to pay the bill for the green transition, it is also necessary to add money to the system via the room for manoeuvre and reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103618	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103620	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Sophie Løh. In the alternative, we would also like to turn the hockey stick over, so we are going to give it full throttle now, and then perhaps we can't hear the rapporteur? Sophie Løh No, sorry, I just couldn't hear it. ) It is I can try to shout something louder! I hope I still have my speaking time, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103647	I think we'll start all over again. It's red, the lamp, so it was supposed to work. Torst Gejl It should? ) Yes, try again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103652	Fortunately, I have a loud voice. Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Sophie Løh. In the alternative, we would also like to turn the hockey stick over, so we give it full throttle now, and if we are then getting closer to goals, faster than we thought, we can let it flatten a bit. Therefore, it is also interesting that the Left might like to participate in green taxes within the tax freeze. That is why I would like to look into it a little and hear: if it does, for example. Does this mean that we are levying a levy on meat, so that meat becomes more expensive, although with social compensation we do make vegetables cheaper, and then it is not all that much more expensive to be a Dane, will the Left be involved in such ideas when we are going to start negotiations on a green tax agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103737	No, it is probably not quite the way we see it, understood in the sense that a green tax reform, which it has been important for the Left and for the Radical Left that we got into the agreement that we made before the summer break, must respect the tax freeze. And when we have said to the government that we need a green tax reform, we have also added that we need to look at the introduction of a uniform CO2 which will mean that some taxes will be raised in order for others to be reduced in return.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103809	Here you go, Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103812	I find it hard to understand completely if it doesn't become more expensive to be a Dane. If we impose, for example... the companies that pollute a lot, a high tax, which can then go to help those who are green to develop, then it will be no more expensive to be a Dane. If it becomes more expensive to drive in expensive cars, polluting cars, and cheaper to drive in those who do not pollute, it will not be more expensive to be a Dane. So I find it hard to understand how that tax freeze is going to work if it's not okay when it's not going to be more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103847	But the tax freeze does not mean that you give a blank cheque so that you can just increase taxes on all the things the alternative might invent to put exciting new taxes and taxes on. In other words, we do not have a proposal and do not want to introduce a meat levy. Nor do we think we should introduce an air tax in Denmark. We have an aviation industry that is completely kneeling on top of the corona crisis. That is why it would be strange if we said: well, then we are simply introducing an air tax. So it must also be possible to face reality, and we are not so frightened that we do not also believe that we should still be able to eat a steak or some spaghetti bolognese in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103928	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008103931	Thank you. I do not know whether we in the Social Democratic Party are even looking forward to the Finance Act of the Left, as the rapporteur was suggested, but I think it would raise the political debate if the Left were actually to have an economic policy. What is currently the Left's excuse for an economic policy is, after all, secessionary attacks on the government, which very often point in different directions. On the one hand, the government is accused of spending too much money, on the other hand, of accusing the government of spending too few. For example, the financial rapporteur for the Left has criticised the government for leaving a bill in the children's room for future generations. The same financial rapporteur says that the Left with investment and stimuli will actually make a faster recovery of the economy than the government. The two statements are, after all, mutually exclusive, and they show that the Left has no coherent answer in relation to economic policy. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur: does the Left believe that it makes sense for the government to go to the limit of the budget law and do everything we can to put coal under the idea that we get the Danes back in the work clothes on top of the corona, or does the Left not think that we should go to the limit of the budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104037	I think that the Social Democratic Party is delighted to be so impatient, but of course the Liberal Party is presenting its financial bill in contrast to the Social Democracy, which sometimes failed to do so when they were in opposition. And I would also like to tell you that, of course, there will be more figures than page numbers, which I think were the only figures in some of the Finance Bills of the Socialists. We believe that, in relation to the economic crisis that has hit Denmark and the rest of the world, there is a need here next year to pursue an expansive fiscal policy. What is crucial for the Left is that we spend the money on creating sustainable growth, and that is why we are concerned about the government's financial bill, which is almost clinically cleared of something that creates growth and Danish jobs. Instead, you do the opposite. There are proposals now to put an increased tax on entrepreneurs, who are the ones to help create tomorrow's jobs and jobs in Denmark. There is the Social Democracy's answer to them: Increased taxes for you. You're pulling 10,000 out of employment. It makes Denmark poorer, not richer. And there's only the kids and the grandchildren to pay that bill in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104155	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104158	I saw a bit of the American debate last night, and Pence is doing the same as the rapporteur is now doing, failing to answer the question and sending instead of an attack the other way. It may work in the United States, but I don't think it works in Denmark. The government doesn't have It's just not right, so don't repeat it. I think that the rapporteur's ignorant answer to my question fully proves that I am right when I say that the Left does not have a coherent economic policy. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur very quietly to answer my question: do you think it is reasonable that we go to the limits of the budget law and do everything we can to get the Danes back to work, or do you basically not think that this is sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104236	I have not been up all night watching the debate, I shall first of all reveal, but it may be, that is why the questioner is a little tired, understood in the sense that I kind of answered those questions, unlike when we had Mr. Jesper Petersen, on the platform, was a little far between the answers to the specific questions that were asked. This was the case, among other things. the question of extra tax on entrepreneurship. Because this government has presented its proposal for this in the context of the Arne reform, and the Social Democrats' financial rapporteur must then have read it in relation to where, among other things, the funding is. must come from. It's extra taxes on entrepreneurship. Quite the opposite is needed: more risk capital. But it will come less of this when you raise the share tax, which is why it is extra tax on entrepreneurship and on good Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104328	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104332	Thank you, President. I know the Left as a party that likes to act, like Mrs Sophie Løhde. The fact that an offer price is not necessarily what the price ends up on, and that you can cheat a little, etc., is important. Is it not true that the Left is a party that is so in good relation to reality? Seeing the Left on the Hjallerup Market and such things is almost like seeing me in the opera, that is, where you can really be allowed to unfold. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Sophi Løhde something: what does the Left think of the 1 tonne CO2 industry paying the quota price, and it is on those 200 kroner, but now we are sitting and negotiating in the transport sector, and there I am a little on the Hjallerup Market and would like to have the price as far down as possible so that it will be the cheapest price we pay per. Ton CO2 But some of the things I just hear from the Left out in society are that there is talk of quite different prices. So what's 1 t CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104444	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104445	Whether we in the Left are good at acting, I think I will leave others to judge, but at least we think it is a hallmark to try to be those who also look after the Danes' money. What 1 t CO 2 2 For I don't think you can put a uniform level and say it's the maximum, or say it's the price, no matter what areas we look into. After all, we have to use various instruments in different sectors, and we are also concerned that the price of crowding out 1 tonne of CO2 is not just free of charge or solves itself by investing in new technology with the famous hockey wand in which the government is relying. Action must be taken and we believe it is necessary to use part of the room for manoeuvre on the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104557	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104600	Then I'd like to hear about something. If we agree that the industry pays 200 DKK, while what the Climate Council recommends as a general tax is 1.500 DKK, and the shadow price, which among other things. The Left's proposal for 700,000 electric cars by 2030 leads to a total of over DKK 4,000. Then I just want to know how much that $2,500. more than the Climate Council recommends, which the Left is willing to use to displace 1 t CO 2 Since Orten I have no memory that cars have been produced in Denmark, so what kind of investment is left to pay 4,000 DKK? to displace 1 t CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104642	That's not what the Left said it should do. We are concerned in the negotiations to ensure that we can raise the level of ambition of the government. They say 100,000 more green cars by 2030, because the 400 000 come by themselves, while we have a target of 1 million, and that is ambitious. And that is where we need to go in and look at giving some room for manoeuvre by making reforms in order to provide funding, otherwise we will not achieve the goal of the green transition in transport. Otherwise there is only one way, and it is just to make it more expensive for a whole lot of Danes, and that is not what we want in the Left. So just one thing: it is a myth if we in Denmark believe that the car industry is only something that is going on in Germany and elsewhere. A very interesting article recently came, and I think it was Danish Industry that had investigated how many jobs there are actually related to the car industry in Denmark and which supply important components to the automotive industry elsewhere, and thus they are also important in relation to our export market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104741	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104743	Thank you. Since the change of government last year there has been a new green course for Denmark. We have got a 70-percent target and we have got green agreements on energy, industry, waste and housing, which together show a quarter of the way towards the 2030 target. Nevertheless, it must be understood on the Left that everything is going too slowly. I assume that this criticism means that there has been a marked green change in the Left since, for example, the previous government. just two years ago came up with a climate project where quota purchases were the main tool. So will the rapporteur reveal how the Left would have ensured a more rapid transition than the government has ensured in the past year when we have reached a quarter of the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104833	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. by insisting that action and action be taken now and that it is not left to hope, wishful thinking, that new technology solves all the problems for us on New Year's Eve 2029. Before the summer holidays, we made agreements in relation to energy, industry and waste, and there was the Left, together with other parties, involved in pushing the government to deliver significantly greater reductions than what the Social Democrats are proposing. So it is a good example of the mandate of the Left that is in the working clothes in relation to the green action. In this government, you're big on ambition, and you're small on action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104913	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104915	Can it really not be more concrete than that? The rapporteur is talking about a reverse hockey stick. Can't it be more concrete? Because I assume that the way in which the rapporteur intends to implement this converted hockey stick is not by the old instruments that the Left swore to, as quota purchases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008104937	We can deal quite a lot with the past, and I also know that this is the one the government has a problem with hanging very firmly in. But as far as the past is concerned, I am on the goal of making the most ambitious energy agreement in Danish history when we were in government. I am also in favour of the fact that, now that we are talking about what we want to be concrete, we are more ambitious and want more rapid action when it comes to the green transition to our transport sector and to our cars. We do not think that it is ambitious with 100,000 more green cars by 2030, as the government proposes, and that the 400 000 come on their own. We have a target of 1 million green cars, and that must of course be financed. That is also why we give priority to using room for manoeuvre, that we give priority and want to help make reforms in order to finance the green transition. This government, and you've said it so true, is red before you're green; you don't want to spend a penny on the green switch, other than if it's money coming down the tour from a check from the EU that's taken for borrowed money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105036	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105040	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur for his speech and, in particular, the green focus. I have an ambition and hope that the area of equality may also be able to bind us together. In February, the Radical Left tabled a motion for a resolution to tighten up the rules on targets for the under-represented sex in the top management bodies, and that sounds a little technical, but it is basically about only 75 out of 1,000 of Denmark's largest companies at that time had a female executive director, and 8 months later the figure is 69. It's fallen. So it is also the case that the probability that a CEO is called Lars is actually greater than that here we find a woman. The Left voted against this resolution, and I have the feeling that the Left would like to strengthen the ability of businesses to attract different talents. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm this and if so, does the rapporteur think that we are good enough to use the entire talent pool in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105147	First of all, thank you for those nice words. In the Left we are very concerned that we get more women to the top, except in the PM's Office there we think we've tried that with a woman, and now we're going after a man but when we talk business and when we talk the public sector. Because there are too many places where women are heavily under-represented in relation to management positions, and that is why it is also something we have to work with in terms of management, where we ourselves have responsibility, for example in relation to the state. It was also one of the things that the Management Commission, which we set up when we had government responsibility, worked on. After all, this is also about a change in culture, including in the public sector, and not only looking in your own network of men when you look for the next candidate, but also looking outwards and making sure that you hire more women. In fact, I think there have been fewer women in top positions in the public sector, at least while the government has been sitting. I would like to remind you that I read an article recently where there was just one example of fewer people having come, although I believe that they have been busy shooting at Mr Tugendhat. Ole Birk Olesen at one point in relation to some of his statements on equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105306	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105308	I was actually pleased with the answer; it was not because I was so touched, but I was pleased with the answer. But what about the private? For now, the focus was on the public sector by Mrs Sophie Løhs. Should the development come on its own in the private sector? Or do we not also have a political responsibility from in here to be the driving force for precisely the change that I hear the Left actually wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105341	Thank you very much. After all, our clear starting point is that women must be elected because they are qualified and not quotad. There was nothing I ever wanted less than to be appointed on the basis of my sex than on the basis of my qualifications. This is true in the public sector, and it is true in the private sector. Can we legislate out of this? I think that's hard. I think this is about a lot of things, both when we talk about the public and the private sector, and some of it is also about role models: that there are women top managers who also help inspire and motivate more women to reach out for it and go for top management positions in the public and private sectors and thus take a number of initiatives to support more women being found in top management, both in the public and private sectors. I think you have to look at many different instruments, and I think that this culture thing is a big part of it, because it is also well known that in many places, when recruiting, even for boards and other things, you look at your own little network, and if that network alone is men who have to find out some, it is not always that you are good enough to look outward. We have so many talented women in top management positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105456	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105459	Thank you. I would like to return to the green discussion. It is said that we should be delighted with an inverted sinner, but I nevertheless think it would be a little more credible if the Left were to act on it, in fact, in relation to the fact that we are now suddenly taking ourselves forward as green. In September, binding nature objectives were proposed and then Mrs Mette Abildgaard, our talented colleague from the Conservatives, said that this was a really, really good idea. But it just sounds a little hollow, because when the Left was in government with the Conservatives and Mrs Mette Abildgaard had it written into the government base and had secured the money for it and something like that, the Left prevented it from becoming a reality. And it can be said that in terms of nature it is also a fairly open question what the Left wants now, even if they have tabled a motion for a resolution. Because before the summer holidays we voted to take better care of our protected section 3 areas and voted against. So does the Left really want to support the government's greater focus on nature and biodiversity, or does it not want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105600	We want to introduce binding nature objectives. We thought so too when we were in government; we even put the money into it twice in the Finance Act, I think. We want it to continue. We ourselves, in the Left, have given priority to the allocation of 100 million. kr. in our forthcoming financial bill to be able to draw up a plan for nature and biodiversity • the government has set aside half of it, namely 50 million. kr. And that is in stark contrast to what was promised to the Danes before the elections: that within 100 days, the Prime Minister said, a plan of nature and biodiversity would be presented. Well, it's been over 400 days, and we haven't seen the shadow of that plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105637	Then we'll only make it to sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105646	Thank you. Now Mrs Sophie Løh says it herself, she shows the hypocrisy. You even take credit for it to be written into the government base and you got the money set aside for it. Nevertheless, it was prevented from being realized. And politics is not just what you say here; politics is also when you actually make things happen in reality. Now I understand that there are 100 million. kr. in this draft budget, which no one has seen, but it would be nice if they were at some point materialised and were also the subject of a public debate. But what this is all about is what is being made a reality, and there this government has done far more than the Left did in the previous period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105726	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105728	Yes, in relation to what you make into reality, I would say: It was the Social Democrat who promised the Danes that it was with the SF that there should be a nature and biodiversity plan within 100 days at the latest. It has been well over 400 days; we have not seen the shadow of any plan. We in the Left believe that we must introduce binding natural objectives. We thought so when we were in government. We did not go all the way to reaching agreement on how to do it, but it does not mean that we say: then we do not mean it anymore. Because there is a need to introduce binding natural objectives, and we also give priority to allocating the money to them. We've set aside 100 million. kr. Now, on our proposal for a Finance Act, the government has set aside 50 million. kr., and then you can measure and weigh yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105807	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has the opportunity to ask questions. And then it is the next rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008105822	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. It was good that we could hold a dignified opening of the parliamentary year, as we did on Tuesday, despite the corona virus, which is still raging in our society, with the participation of the royal family, which has also had to miss some celebrations in the spring. Tall and low have had to pay for the fact that we have a virus among us that we must take into account. And, of course, corona played a major role in the Prime Minister's speech. That's why I'm gonna start my speech by getting into the corona. We're going to Fredericia. It's Saturday, September 26th. It's 5:17. The police come forward and tell the 270 participants and 30-40 helpers at the national meeting of the KFUM scouts that their meeting is over. Following a legal examination, the scouts are not covered by the criteria for a so-called opinion-promoting activity which is otherwise not subject to the restrictions of the authorities. It came as a surprise to the scouts. They had otherwise complied with all the guidelines: they sat down, there was a good distance, and there was no song. The authorities had even been contacted in advance to ensure that all guidelines were complied with. But the scouts had not been able to take account of the fact that the government the day before Friday at 9:00 a.m. At a press conference, 17.00 had announced new stricter guidelines and that the examination of these new guidelines put an end to the scouts' meeting. Similarly, many others were in a chaotic situation where guests were to be canceled for weddings, confirmations, etc. With a few hours' notice. We have to fight Corona. We need to take care of each other. We in the Danish People's Party are quite clear that the situation requires restrictions, but they must also be adapted and they must be able to function in the real world. Right now, while we are engaged in the opening debate, there are 150 mink farms that are being closed down in North Jutland. Up to a million minks will be killed. There are sick animals, yes, but there are also mink farms with healthy animals. In a radius of 7.8 km, all animals are killed, i.e. a radius of the area where there is infection. Is that reasonable? It is a very expensive round, and what you do has to be proportionate and rational. The government promised in the spring the involvement of the Folketing in the handling of corona, but more and more the government has made the decisions itself. This has meant that there is less predictability in the restrictions. This has meant that there is more uncertainty and more ambiguity about what is applicable and why. That is why we need new guidelines for dealing with corona. We need more insight and we need greater participation so that we can do exactly what the Prime Minister talked about on Tuesday: solve the challenge of covid-19 jointly. And the Folketing must ensure that when we review the epidemic law. The Prime Minister also spoke a lot about foreign policy, and I was obviously very pleased about that. If there is one area that is crucially important for Denmark's future, it is precisely foreign policy. Now, on Tuesday, I was sitting in this Chamber in almost the same place that I had left in 1999. At that time, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party was not Mrs Mette Frederiksen, but Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. At that time it was said from the chairman of the Social Democratic Party to us in the Danish People's Party, who sat right down there in the seats: the rooms, you never will be. On Tuesday it was said that, unfortunately, many of the problems we are facing today go back a long way. And the Prime Minister went on to say: 'The policy of foreigners in the past was a mistake. It's as simple as that. ▪ I am much happier with the words on Tuesday than with the words back in 1999. But the words also require, and it may be good to ban residence and remove status symbols for inappropriate young people with a foreign background, but we must not just move the problems around the country; we must also solve them. That is why I am worried when, for example, Danish authorities assign imam authority. When you try to solve specific problems through imams imamer, which maintain parallel societies and which, for example, lay down rules for women's right to divorce, as we have seen in Odense and when you give imams authority, you contribute to parallel societies and undermine Danish values, whether it's about how to tackle the inappropriate young people, or it's about how to fight the corona virus. In order to solve the problems, we must also understand that there is a real cultural clash going on in our country. It is a cultural clash between what Denmark has been and which is still in large parts of the country, and then the Denmark, which is increasingly inhabited by immigrants • immigrants primarily from Middle Eastern countries. It is therefore a cultural clash between the Danish culture born of the Christian cultural heritage and people with primarily Muslim background who have come to Denmark primarily from the Middle East and North Africa. The Prime Minister mentions that one in five young men with a non-Western background who were born in 1997 had violated the penal code before he reached the age of 21. It's scary. And then the Prime Minister said that in particularly vulnerable residential areas it is 1%. of the residents of almost half of the crime rate, given the seriousness of crime. It's a good thing the Prime Minister is talking about these relationships, but it can't stop there. For areas in Denmark, when we go from the fact that the area has been marked by Danes with the cultural background that we have, and then mostly is populated by immigrants from mainly Muslim countries, Denmark changes its character. That is why this debate must also be about the population change that is taking place on an ongoing basis. Pew Research Center has previously analysed population development and estimated that the proportion of people with Muslim background in Denmark will continue to grow towards 2050, so approx. 12% of the population at that time will be with Muslim background, 700,000-800,000. This is what will continue the fundamental change in Denmark. This is what we need to get hold of. We have reduced the number of new entrants to Denmark. We have made many tightenings; some are being maintained, others are rolling the government back. But most of all, the return strategy that we got through with the 2019 Finance Act is important to put into practice, and I would like to have the Prime Minister's offer, here later today, how she will ensure exactly that. The area of the elderly is another particularly important area that we must also address today. It is a core area for our welfare societies. Older people who cannot take care of themselves must have a dignified care. We should not risk what we, among other things, risk. I've been watching TV for the summer. This is an area that must be given priority. Many municipalities will experience a doubling of the number of 80+-year-olds over the coming years, and although many thankfully can fend for themselves, many will also need help. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have proposed a nursing home guarantee. We have proposed putting up with stingy vessels in the care of the elderly so that the many skilled workers do not have to fight hard with those who should not work at all in the care of the elderly. But the question is whether the government has the will to do what it needs to do to safeguard the elderly. We have seen that in these years the government is busy introducing minimum standards in the field of children. That could be okay. But why not also minimum standards in the area of the elderly? After all, the risk is that minimum standards in the area of children, if the municipalities do not feel fully compensated for what they have to do, are being implemented by taking money from the elderly and putting it into the children's field. That's not gonna work. That is why a question to the Prime Minister is this: will the government help to introduce minimum standards in the area of the elderly so that there will be a basis for what the municipalities will be delivering to the elderly? By the way, the Prime Minister had a big news on Tuesday: 10 billion. kr. in a new green space; 2 billion. kr. every year until 2025. It sounds like a lot, but it's borrowed money you drop off and booze off. The Prime Minister said otherwise that it is not foresight to leave the bill in the dorm room, and that is right, but that is why we must also be careful when we spend loose of borrowed money, because as most Danes well know, they must be paid back. That is why, when we are making the green transition, which we must finally, when the Prime Minister did not get so much into the European Union in his speech on Tuesday, I would like to remind the Danes that the Prime Minister, I believe, put an extra 4.5 billion on Denmark on 17 July. kr. a year in the EU quota, said yes to the EU being able to finance loans, I think it is for 5 600 billion. kr., about half of which should be given as a gift to southern Europe in particular. It was something the Prime Minister, when we met before the summer, was very opposed, but over the summer it has nevertheless agreed. We find this deeply regrettable and I hope that it will also be part of the debate here at the opening debate today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008110844	Thank you. The first is sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008110852	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is absolutely essential that the money for our welfare should go to our institutions, schools and to care for the elderly, as the rapporteur himself said, when more children or more elderly people come out in the municipalities. We secured this last year in the economic agreements with municipalities and regions, together with a majority in the Danish Parliament in the Finance Act for this year, and we are also preparing for it with the Finance Act for next year. And I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party agrees with the principle that when population development changes and there are more children and more elderly people, yes, the money must also follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008110930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008110933	We in the Danish People's Party agree with that. We think it is such a good bottom to put under it all that when there are changes in our population composition that require us to be able to deliver the same thing tomorrow as we did yesterday, money must also be included. Then we think it is a good principle that we ensure precisely that. We would also like to add a little, because we would also like to have a guarantee that the money will then also be spent on, among other things. the area of the elderly, as I say in my speech here. 'Cause we're nervous that the elderly area will otherwise last for these years, so that there can be room for other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111006	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111009	At any rate, I can confirm that, like the elderly, the Danish People's Party is very concerned about this too. After all, the government's legislative programme shows that we are going to put forward a bill on a welfare law to ensure this mechanism: that the money is consistent with population development. Therefore, my question is whether the Danish People's Party can see itself entering into the work of making an agreement on a welfare law that sets a new direction for how we fund our welfare in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111035	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111038	We can easily see ourselves taking an active part in this. But I just have to say that back in, for example. The last parliamentary term was the single area we received the most money, in fact the area of the elderly, but we did so by means of targeted appropriations. What we can see is that when they are no longer targeted, it is as if the money is disappearing from the elderly. The municipalities introduce the rock map, as we make it and give money to the municipalities, in exchange for making the rock map, but as it becomes voluntary for the municipalities, the rock map disappears in a number of municipalities again. We don't like that. Therefore, we would also like to have it included in this discussion about whether there are some places where we should not only ensure a bottom in relation to the economy, but also ensure that there is a bottom in relation to what it is for a service to be provided to, among others. Our older people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111123	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111132	Thank you. In the Radical Left we are based on Hørup's ideas about democracy. Democracy is for everyone, and that is the way we want to develop democracy. And it may well be that we have some disagreements with the Danish People's Party there, but basically I believe that we all agree that democratic formation is the result of participation in democracy. That is what we are calling on all new citizens in Denmark to do. We even demand it. Last Tuesday, I was in a debate with Mr. Morten Messerschmid, and there was a young climate activist who took part in that debate. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt said she shouldn't attend, she was under 18, so she should go to school. So I have to ask: is it the general view of the party that young people under the age of 18 should not participate in the democratic debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111236	It is our view that young people under the age of 18 who go to school or have schooling in their daily lives must take part in the debate and go to school, in other words they must go to school and participate in the debate. In relation to the fact that young people strike and stay away from their schooling, which we as a society make available without payment, so that they can improve their skills, in other words, that they strike and say that they do not want their education because they are going out to strike for the climate, I think it would be very nice if they said: I go to school until the school day is over and then I go out and demonstrate for the climate. The problem is because I am basically pleased that they are engaging, but I think that when you get something at the disposal of society to be able to do it, you should also accept it instead of using the day of school for demonstrations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111340	So this is about the time? Is it to be understood that young members of the Youth of the Danish People's Party cannot attend a debate on the radio if it takes place at a time when they should have been in school? Is that something that the Danish People's Party wants to prevent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111357	I think this is going to be a strange debate. Well, listen: I have deep respect for young people who are engaging. I myself speak in high schools and all kinds of other places, so that you have to get involved before you get 18. So that's not what we're talking about at all. We are talking about whether, as a Parliament speaker, we also think it is good that we turn it into a recurring event, I would have liked to say that we want to demonstrate by strike and stay away from school because something is so important. Then I have to say that it is simply not a coupling that I think is right. I think you should accept your education. In other words, there are other countries in the world where education cannot be obtained. There are other countries in the world where we fight for people to respect the right of girls to receive education as well. And then we sit here in Denmark and think it is absolutely fantastic if young people strike from school. I mean, I've always been of the opinion that you have to engage as a young person, but you have to do it after school. I would say, of course, that if there is a radio programme in which someone from Radical Youth should discuss with someone from the Youth of the Danish People's Party, then peace be with it. That's not what we're talking about here, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111456	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111504	Thank you. There are some children who are a little slower than other children; who need a year extra in the sandbox; who need a year extra in the Parrot Room. I myself have been one of those who doesn't think it's so good to have to start kindergarten when they're 6 years old. In fact, it's also a little funny why it's just about 6 years old, we've been thinking that all kids should be ready to go to school. Some are ready a little sooner, some need a little extra time. In 2009, the rules were changed so that it was no longer the parents' choice whether their child needed a year extra in kindergarten. There it simply became compulsory that everyone should start, and then you have to apply to the municipality if you need school stays for your child. Since then, because of economic thinking, the proportion of children allowed to go one year extra in kindergarten has halved. Now, together with the rest of the red block, we propose giving the right back to the children and to the parents the right to go one more year in kindergarten. Will the Danish People's Party help restore such a right so that you can have a year extra in the sandbox if you need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111607	When I just turned my attention to Mr. Jacob Mark, it was certainly not to point the finger at Mr. Jacob Mark. It's just that we've had a debate in the past about the same thing where Mr. Jacob Mark himself has emphasized that he took a year extra there. I basically agree that we are not ready at the same time. So it should not be a discussion, I think, at least, about whether everyone should be ready at the same time as children, because they are not. That is why it must also be possible to take account, and it is really just to find out in practice how this is to be done. Should this be done by saying, as parents, that you can always say an extra year, or should it be in a dialogue? I think that is crucial, and we are, of course, happy to enter into a discussion on this in order to find the right balance in it. But the fact that you are not ready at the same time as a child to go further, I think is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111654	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111658	I'm glad. In the few cases that will be where there is a child where it is not for the child's best to go a year extra in kindergarten, one must of course be able to take that into account. In the vast majority of cases, however, parents can evaluate it. So I'm really glad you want to discuss it. Then I have a brief question, also about children: now the Danish People's Party is talking warmly about minimum standards in the area of the elderly. This catalogue of laws I have contains minimum standards in the field of children, namely minimum standards in all nurseries and kindergartens. We think that's a little big. Will the Danish People's Party vote for that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111734	We shall take a position on this when it is put forward and we will see exactly how it has been implemented. However, I do think that what we do in the area of the elderly at the same time may well have an impact on us. Our concern is, of course, that the municipalities have often talked about the fact that they do not think they are getting enough money for some given task when the Folketing has decided something. And if there is a municipality that says that they have now got legal minimum standards in the area of children, but they do not think the money has been followed, then there is a great risk that the municipality will then take money from the elderly and take over in the area of children. This is not because, under the best conditions at all, we do not want to protect the elderly. That is why we just think that this debate should be able to take place in this autumn as well. That is why I am already announcing in the opening debate that the issue of the elderly and minimum standards in the area of the elderly will be an important discussion for us to take with Mr. Jacob Mark and colleagues when we discuss these minimum standards in the field of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111825	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111832	Thank you. I'd like to stay a little bit with the kids, but they're some other kids, those who lived in a refugee camp in Lesbos. That refugee camp is burned down. It was a refugee camp that was made for 3,000 people. Up to 13,000 lived on the streets of Lesbos, Greece. I think, and we think in the Enhedslisten, that we in Denmark should bring some of the children and their parents here. But that's not true. The asylum rate this year is historically low, in fact so low that asylum centres are now being closed around Denmark. So I actually just want to hear what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's argument that we should not help these children who are now living on the streets of Greece?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008111926	But I am also in favour of helping children who live in Greece in poor conditions, but we should not help them by taking them to Denmark. There are quite a lot of places in the world where, unfortunately, you live under some conditions that are really, really sad and different than in Denmark. However, we need to help what we can help by helping in nearby areas, by helping where people are now. I am quite sure that in Greece there are some who are real refugees, but there are certainly also a great many who are migrants, that is, who have simply travelled from Africa to Europe to find better conditions, and they cannot be thought into that. You can't think of them as trying. We have to convince these people in Africa that it is local, we have to help them, and not know that they sit down in these boats and sail across the Mediterranean, where there is also a huge risk of drowning along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112045	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112050	After all, we are in a situation in which neither the Greeks nor the refugees, especially the children who are at Lesbos, can wait for us to make this solution, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is talking about. In fact, I would say that it is of course helping in the neighbourhood that we are moving some of the children who are in Greece right now to Denmark. After all, this is a refugee camp which, as I said before, first of all has been burned and, secondly, there was only room for 3 000 people. Up to 13,000 people live there. So it is helping in the neighbourhood that we take some of the children to Denmark. Here it doesn't help just to send some money, even if it might be fine. But we can see that the Danish contribution that has been made now has not actually ended up on Lesbos, but has ended up on the mainland in Greece, in other words in Athens. That's why I just want to ask you again. These children can't wait for this long-term solution, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is talking about, so what should we do specifically to help the children who now live on the streets of Lesbos?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112153	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112157	Well, I am fully involved in helping the Greek community to deal with the challenge they face. I fully recognise that this is a huge task, and I understand if you are really, really tired of it in Greece, just like you are in Italy and just like you are in Spain. But you just have to look behind it once in a while, so you find out why this actually happened. It has come about because there are areas, among other things. in Africa, where it is very, very difficult to make life work, and where there are a lot of people who, of course, have the hope of looking elsewhere where they can have a better life for themselves and their children. You can't think of them in that. The solution is to help them in Africa. That is what one must basically take as a point of view if one is to resolve this seriously and not just make symbolic policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112249	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112254	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The Danes who entered the labour market early in the 1970s after the 7th or 8th grade have had a longer and harder working life than most. Their bodies are being worn out, but they cannot be granted an early retirement pension. The Social Democrats have baptized them Arne and are currently negotiating a solution for them. In New Citizens we find it fair that those who are now older and who entered the labour market during their very young teenage years have a right to retire earlier. At the same time, we would like to recognise those who continue for even more years and do not opt for the previous pension. We'd like to give them a tax rebate, and we call them Bjarne. We have proposed to finance the solution of Arne and Bjarne by abolishing the graduation allowance for the graduates, because we think it is quite unreasonable that Arne and Bjarne should wear and tow while the young newly trained RUCs and others can be too fine to take a job at the Netto checkout. What does DF think of our funding proposals? Isn't that better than raising taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112409	No, I don't necessarily think it is. It is clear, then, that I share the view that people who have been right, very many years in the labour market can go before others, especially if they have worked in physically debilitating industries. That's also why we're negotiating this model. I think it is 14 years since I first said in a television newspaper that such a long-term service model, where, when you have been in a job for many years, you should also be allowed to retire a little earlier, was a good idea. Now, of course, we sit and negotiate and see if we can find the right solution, i.e. how it can be done fairly fairly, and there is funding, i.e. who has to pay the bill, of course also part of the discussion. We are basically not very much in favour of tax increases, because we think that with corona and so on. So, of course, there is always a discussion about where the funding should come from, but we have certainly not just proposed that we remove the graduation rate in relation to young people, as Mrs Pernille Vermund has said. But it is a good thing that there are offers of sources of funding; where you can find the money for what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112519	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112521	Thank you for your answer. I am sorry to hear that one would rather have tax increases than to abolish the graduation rate for young people who are healthy and bodied and should really come out and take a job. But let it go. Our proposal to abolish the graduation rate will increase the supply of work by approx. 6,000 full-time people. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl tells us what DF is thinking in relation to the job supply, which after all is burdened by the fact that there will be some people who are currently on the labour market and who choose to use the right to withdraw earlier? What does DF do with thoughts about it? Are we going to compensate or are we just going to reduce the supply of labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112603	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112605	No, we see it in that way, of course, if you make a previous pension for some, in principle in the calculators will provide a smaller supply of work, as Mrs Pernille Vermund says it is absolutely right, but that in reality it is something on top of which we generally raise the retirement age and thus increase labour supply quite considerably. We will also do so after we have had to reach an agreement on early retirement if necessary. So you can say that the price of raising the retirement age is actually that you respect the fact that there are some others who do not have to work so long because they cannot manage it because they simply cannot stand it; and then you give them some time off rather than some others. That's the clutch we see. That is why, in the years to come, the supply of labour will increase with the overall solution that can be said to be found in the welfare settlement, of which we are part, and then with any agreement on early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112650	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112656	Thank you very much. Now DF is included in the Climate Act, which states that we must lower CO2 by 2030. DF said in April that you wanted to go down to 60% and that you were thinking about leaving the settlement if it didn't come down. I would like to know whether the President will confirm that DF is still taking part in a 70% reduction. And if that's true, will DF be in turn the hockey stick, so this is where we make savings? Then we may be able to do what you can say to do it a little slower if we get to the goal faster than we thought, but it is now that we make savings, for example. via a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112740	We're in the deal, and of course we're going to hang on. After all, the agreement is to try to deliver the 70-percent reduction by 2030. After we talk about 60%. or in 70%. In fact, in 2035, it is to try to bring some realism into the negotiating room. It's obvious that things haven't been cut in granite. It is also a question of discussing how things should look. The example of the electric cars is obvious, isn't it? If you say you have to have a million electric cars by 2030, it costs 6 billion. kr. kr. On some other things. Of course, we need to be able to have such discussions with each other. That is also what this so-called hockey stick is expressing, namely the speed at which things will be brought in. It is clear that if we do not wait for some technological advances which may bring new methods to reach the 70%, we know that it will, of course, be extra expensive. You have to be able to discuss this openly, because it is a bill that is left to the Danes, and if it is for Danes with small incomes, then I think they will sit and jump a little on the chair when we have this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112848	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112852	Thank you. The second part of the question was whether DF will be involved, for example. to introduce uniform climate taxes so that we make the things that pollute more expensive. It could, for example, be done. We must also be in the area of the tax freeze, so that everything does not become more expensive, but so that the things that pollute the most will be more expensive, so that we can make the change in behaviour that reduces CO2 consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008112919	We have basically said: let us see a proposal for a tax restructuring based on the principle that it is they who really have the biggest emissions that pay. Let us see how it can be implemented in practice, because there are some considerations here that need to be balanced against each other. We also have a concern, as I said before, for people on low incomes, because how are they affected? There are just some considerations that need to be bent towards each other. If you only did it for people in the big cities, you might do it one way, because they can take the metro or something, but some other consideration has to be taken into account when we have to make the whole country work, and we will certainly bring them into the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113001	Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113009	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I fully agree with the President of the Danish People's Party that words commit, and indeed I also agree with the current Social Democratic President and Prime Minister in her statement that cooperation with the Danish People's Party is much better to want than what was in the historical reference, which also came and probably also says much more about where we stand today, and look at what challenges we face and which I think we share far along the way. Then we have to face the challenge. Right now we are in the police negotiations, and I understand on the left that they are a little sceptical about this with local police stations, which, among other things, are. is also about our vulnerable residential areas. Conversely, I understand that the Danish People's Party will be more positive about that instrument too. I would just like to hear the President's view on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113103	We think it is essential that we create more local security. Local security is also the presence of police. What we think is the challenge of government policy is that it is slow to deliver the number of policemen who are then proposed that there should be in order to actually cover it up. This morning there was this proposal for security-building measures, which is based in fact on the fact that there are police who track down those who are making insecurity and who have them held to account and enforced the things they bring in. So it also requires that there are the number of police officers required. There we in the Danish People's Party have been doing so for a long time under the previous government, and we are doing so in the current situation, where we are in negotiations and fought for the number of police officers who can actually cover our country. For it is clear that if you give the impression to local areas around the province that there are now local police stations and now there are lights in the windows from one o'clock on Thursdays to another on Thursdays, or whatever that is, it does not provide any real security. It shouldn't be the case that you've hung a sign on the door, where it says: "We're open but wonder if there's someone in there. It has to be based on something that the Danes know will actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113219	Thank you for your support for that. Then I have another question as a follow-up to the new radical leader's question. I actually sensed a certain disagreement in the Danish People's Party Presidency, because I assume that what the President said is contrary to what the Vice-President has just quoted as saying: do not express yourself democratically, you have to go to school, and then wait until you are 18 years old. That was the way it might be, it's a misquote, and then we'll have to shoot the Ekstra Bladet and not the messenger, but I just heard the President disagree with it. I think there is every reason to pay tribute to this, in other words to both the democratic debate and the young people who participate in it. I just sensed that the President agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113256	Now I actually heard the radio programme in question too, and I think we should just allow ourselves to have some debate at all, and things can of course also develop freshly, and I think they did that both from Mr Tugendhat and from Mr Tugendhat. Morten Messerschmidt, but in fact also on the part of the radio host, who, as I understood, virtually turned off the microphone and said that the debate on our part was over now, we were not allowed to debate any more, and that was after Mr. Morten Messerschmidt had waited quite a long time to get into that debate at all or be allowed to say something. In fact, they must also be brought up to participate in the democratic process and become involved, because we think that is a very good thing too. It is also what creates later members of parliament who are involved here, and it is really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113344	Then it's mr. Ruben Kid, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113351	Thank you. We have a new political leader in the Radical Left, but we are continuing the same green policy. And let me be very clear: for us, the 70-percent objective cannot be graded. Therefore, we are also continuing the fight to achieve our 70-percent target in the most cost-effective way, which according to all experts is a uniform CO2 Danish People's Party climate rapporteur was in the spring a sharp opponent of a uniform CO2 June which, of course, points towards a uniform CO2 So my question to the chairman of the Danish People's Party is whether the Danish People's Party will be involved in introducing a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113454	It's just not that simple. It may well be that it enjoys enormously simply saying that there has to be a uniform CO2 that is why we have said that we are completely prepared to take part in the negotiations • to look at when there is a move on how we do it here in practice. Let's take a look at it. But there are some considerations that need to be balanced against each other. I fully agree with what you say about the fact that you have to stretch high to reach the apples that hang high on the tree, and that is what we have to discuss, that is, how to do it in practice, so that it actually works in the real world, not only in relation to CO2 reduction but also in relation to the Danish families who have to live with it in practice. We are just taking the liberty of saying that the government must make a move in relation to the agreements we have made, and then we must assess what the consequence is if we implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113555	Sir. Ruben Kid.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113559	Thank you for that answer. I note, of course, that in relation to the issue of CO2 Danish Businesses clearly said that one should move towards a uniform CO2 In the same way the Danish People's Party climate rapporteur earlier argued that it was for the sake of the companies that one should not be bet on getting a million electric cars because there were not so many green jobs in electric cars. It seems as if this is being ignored that we have about 400 Danish companies in the whole country that deliver directly or indirectly to the global car industry, which is facing a huge green boom. So my question is really whether the Danish People's Party does not recognise that the business community relatively broadly supports both a uniform CO2 compared to getting more electric cars out, because it can create a growth boom in Denmark that is green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113652	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113656	In other words, we are also discussing these things very much with companies and business organisations, and we are in favour of creating a market-based model which can really bring us forward. But it is clear that, as legislators and as parliamentarians, we just have some broader interests to take care of. After all, we have to make sure that the individual Danish families are sensibly provided with what we do, and we also have to look at how people with small incomes manage these different things. It is also a discussion if you introduce a tax on a product that everyone has to pay, that there will then be people with a certain income who can ignore that tax and who actually say that they can easily pay it without problems, while people with less income feel quite different. It's just gonna have to be part of this discussion, how to really ensure those families that aren't as well off as others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113748	Thank you. Then it's mr. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113756	Thank you. The rapporteur and I have both been in municipal councils for quite a number of years, and I have quite often wondered about the fact that when a local authority had a bad case in the country where everyone could see that a citizen was treated indecently, Christiansborg's reaction has all too often been to drag down a large and costly bureaucracy on all municipalities. Perhaps the DF's rapporteur has also had some of those reflections. For the Socialists, it is crucial that we continue to develop and support our welfare society and the many employees who work hard every day to make our welfare society work. That is also why we are now proposing to free seven municipalities from national rules and unnecessary bureaucracy. We believe that it is very often our public employees and their users who can have the concrete answers to the challenges we face. Does the Danish People's Party agree with the ambition to set a number of municipalities free, so that we can strengthen the work of creating closeness in welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113854	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113857	That thought is not remote to us at all. After all, we ourselves have faced a free communal attempt in the past. It was screwed up a little differently, but the idea was the same. It was, of course, that if you gave some municipalities a little more time off, you could test some things and find out if they worked and if you could spread them out to others. Now I understand that the inspiration for this, among other things. has come from the Corona situation and the way in which things have been put together and settled in a decentralised manner in the individual institutions. One might actually ask: is there not one thing one could learn from the coronatide, which one could already roll out all over the country, instead of saying that there are seven municipalities, one has to test something further and then put it into effect in a few years' time? It can also be said that there is a dilemma for the Social Democratic Party that, at the same time as this free-community attempt is being made to see if we cannot do things within a freer framework, minimum standards are being drawn down on all municipalities in the field of children. It is also a bit contradictory that these are the two things you will be working on at the same time: with one hand more central control from Christiansborg and with the other hand some free municipalities attempts to ask the municipalities if they cannot handle things themselves. But, well, that's how the world is full of paradoxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008113957	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114000	Thank you for your answer. Now, perhaps, it is also a way of allocating more funds to precisely the children's area, which that way leads the resources to actually solve what we have wanted to be able to solve in the municipalities for years. I have two follow-up questions. One is: Does the Danish People's Party trust that it is often out locally that experience has been gained to strengthen the proximity of welfare? That must be the one question. Thank you for your reply on the corona, to which the rapporteur has referred. But I would like to ask: what really could be done, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom? the day-care and school area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114042	There is no doubt that there are a great many municipal politicians who are making a huge effort and doing it well. There are also many people out in the individual institutions, whether it is for children or for the elderly, who are really skilled employees who just fight every day. Sometimes I get so sorry, too, when the picture gets that it's all sad. Then you should also remember that there are many who go to work every day and actually just do a really good job and have the heart in the right place. They are also so ugly and sad about the stumbled vessels that we do not manage to pull out of the equation, whether it is on the part of the municipalities or on the part of the central community and that they are in fact battling with the stumbled vessels. I also mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech. So it's all about how to engage people to make the right effort. But it is fair enough that we are discussing a bottom and where you are doing it in the area of children, then we are doing it in the area of the elderly. For example: there is the clipboard system that gives some freedom to the elderly, so that they can have the dignity that they can choose for themselves and have some self-determination. Isn't that also a very good way to say that there is a common service in Denmark that we want to secure for all our elderly people? That is certainly a question I think is right to ask the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114137	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114148	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech, by the way. And now, on the core task, that is what I heard from the rapporteur in relation to care for the elderly. Too many good Danish tax dollars often end up in tax havens, where multinational companies will make profits on, among other things. the elderly area. It is tax dollars that were otherwise intended for the most vulnerable citizens. In the SF we do not want to cut off private organisations from taking responsibility for e.g. care for the elderly. It's good to have some diversity. But we really want to ensure that tax dollars do not end up abroad, get out of the country in tax havens or, for that matter, in some companies' very deep pockets. The question is whether the Danish People's Party will help to close the gap that makes it possible to withdraw profits from welfare areas, so that instead we can guarantee that the money, the good welfare crowns, is spent on what they were meant for, namely welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114247	It is clear that what it is being set up does not sound very nice, in other words that there are horrible people from outside coming and hauling welfare crowns out of our society. And we have also entered into the discussion that has been going on about how the rules could be adjusted, so that we are more sure that the money we are granting is actually going to the welfare areas we want. That's why it's for us whether we can do this job without necessarily saying that everything that's private is a bad thing, because it's not like that. There are plenty of places in our welfare community where people are helped by people who, from the outset, do it as a business, but where they actually have the heart in the right place and do it well. That is the balance we need to see if we can find, and also preferably at a slightly different level than it is now. In any case, we are happy to be part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114345	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114348	But it is just a fact that every time there are more elderly people who need help, it is also just becoming more expensive for society, in other words, unlike a production company. The more we produce, the more we can actually sell and the more we can earn. It's just not like that when we talk about care for the elderly. That is why it presents some challenges if, when more and more elderly people need help, we also have to generate greater and greater profits for business owners. That's where the free schools are a good example. And you could imagine that the money that might be in surplus when you do your job and do your job well can then be used for elderly care again. After all, it is all our tax dollars that we expect to be managed in a sensible way and used precisely for the care of the elderly. Could it not make a great deal of sense to devise a model similar to, for example, free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114435	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114438	Maybe it is, but I just want to say that we have private practitioners. In fact, it is quite an important part of our welfare society. I think there are a lot of Danes who would like to be able to come to their doctor. It's based on the fact that they're allowed to make money. Then we'll make some agreements and some rules on how it's gonna happen. It is just to say that it is not necessarily so black and white, what is public and what is private. Then there's the problem that the municipality is still out of the job. There is a difference between shoe production and care for the elderly. After all, the municipality is obliged to stand there tomorrow morning and help the elderly citizens who cannot fend for themselves. It is clear that this is something you have to decide on how to handle properly. It could well be imagined that if more and more private and not public, we would have a problem in such an area as care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114527	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114534	Thank you. Now the party chairman and I are both from Jutland, out there, where the automatic doors in the metro don't really go up and in, and where you see a bus as often as you see an albino calf! So I want to say that I am deeply concerned about the car negotiations that are going on right now, because there are some families of children out there who have no chance of buying these electric cars. And I would like to know if the Danish People's Party will stand with New Citizens and guarantee that you will not add votes to an agreement that makes it more expensive to buy and own and drive in these conventional cars that are so necessary for families with children who sometimes have one car and sometimes two cars to make everyday life hang together out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114611	Well, maybe the party chairman is giving a trip to the Jaguar, which I understand is an electric car. But it is quite true that there are a lot of Danes who are deeply dependent on their car or car, but I just have to say, of course, for several years in the Danish People's Party, we have been fighting for a change in car taxes. In fact, the model, a little after Norwegian inspiration, which the FDM and car importers have also wanted for many years, is a change in which the technical aspects of the car determine taxation. And it was to ensure that we in here created a charging model that always favoured the environmentally sound car. And then it's about technology development... it's the car manufacturers who really find out how to do it as well as they can now, and all the time, with a car that's better than the one they sold last year. We fought for this when we last discussed car taxes in the last parliamentary term, and we are, of course, asking for this again in the discussions that are now taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114720	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114723	Yeah, and it's very nice what you bid in with. But that is not what is being proposed, and that is clearly not what a majority is in favour of, that is to say that it should be technically based. But what is the answer to all the Danes out there who must hear that it may well be that DF is bidding with this, but that, if it becomes necessary, it must just cost something more to drive in conventional cars? And that is why I ask again: will DF add votes to a solution that makes buying and owning and driving in conventional cars more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114751	No, that is, I am saying what our starting point is, and it is, of course, to have a change in our car tax that makes it always worthwhile to make the most environmentally friendly cars and offer them to the Danes, so that we can of course have a change in the car park we have, but where we do it in a way that I think the Prime Minister would normally say, wise way. And it is clear that I will not be depositing my right of negotiation with the new citizens. We have it ourselves, and we go into the negotiating room, and then we negotiate, and if we achieve a result, we can be judged on that result, and then we can have a discussion on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114824	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114831	Thanks for the speech. I sense a contradiction in what the Danish People's Party wants politically and the policy pursued by the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur talks about population composition and the fact that we should not receive refugees, but on the other hand we are not ambitious enough in terms of climate action. And, of course, we know that the climate crisis will cause 250 million climate refugees if we do not do enough. So can the rapporteur not clarify the contradiction, in other words that we are not doing enough for the climate, but at the same time will limit the number of refugees and ensure that there is no population replacement when the two things are in contrast?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008114924	I think that is actually a very strange question to ask. Now we have had a discussion here for the last barely an hour, among other things. on climate policy, including: based on the fact that the Danish People's Party is involved in these negotiations on how to transform Danish society. But we are just allowing ourselves to ask some questions about what Denmark does with 5.6 million inhabitants in a world where there are probably approx. Seven billion inhabitants. After all, we think that the way we should approach this task is by ensuring that Denmark is still away a rich and prosperous society inhabited by some hopefully happy people who can then find some technological solutions that make us really able to say to the outside world: Look, here are some ways to do things that are actually really good. Couldn't you be inspired by them so we can make some money out of it? That's the way we want to do this, and we're gonna do it at a time so we can do it. So the question seems to me to be entirely beside the dial in relation to the debate we have had. And I think with this very thing that things are really, really good together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008115029	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008115033	Now I would like to follow up on the question, but I only have one more question, so the rapporteur now has another question. The rapporteur took us back with a historical reference, and much has changed since. Many parties have today adopted the Danish People's Party's Foreign Policy. Yet something has not changed, and that is the view of the Danish People's Party on our Muslim fellow citizens. Since the opening debate is also one of democracy's festivities, I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to say just one small nice thing about our Muslim fellow citizens: one small nice thing!
ParlaMint-DK_20201008115107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008115110	I mean, I like engagement and that you take part in the debate, but I just think that when we talk about the problems we have in the field of foreigners, it is so obvious what is actually the reason why we have a more divided Denmark and that we have parallel societies etc. I think it is good when there are model breakers, and I think it is good when some break out of the reality they have otherwise been put in, for example. in a parallel society, and shows that they can actually stand up to it and say that in future it should not be like this. When girls e.g. I think it is really, really good for young girls in immigrant environments who are actually educating and thus also helping to make themselves strong and can do away with some of the things they might otherwise have brought from Middle Eastern, such medieval traditions from their homes. I think we should see more of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008115158	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, and the speaking time has also passed. So thank you to the rapporteur. I'll wait with the next rapporteur, because otherwise it'll just be a little awkward. So Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen comes on after the break. The meeting is suspended. We'll start again at 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008130005	The sitting is resumed and we shall continue with the debate on statement No. R 1. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. Welcome to Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008130028	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it was not I who should have given this speech, but you all know what has happened in the last 24 hours. I stand here today as the new political leader of the Radical Left, and it is my firm belief, and it is the firm conviction of the whole radical parliamentary group, that we must put to good use the sexism of Denmark. Morten Østergaard has paid a very, very high price for this. I understand that some think that these are violent consequences of a hand on a thigh ten years ago, but he has set himself aside for our party and for the fight against sexism; here just more than one case and one name is needed. We want to end a rotten culture, not just here at Christiansborg, but throughout Danish society. We have a lot to do with us. I also hope that you will look inward into your parties; you have much to do. For 115 years, my party has been fighting for change. Regardless of the state of things and of the world, we have continued to move forward, continuing to believe in the purpose that runs like a thread through our history from 1905: that we will set people free to live lives that make sense to them. That fight is continuing, and that is why I am standing here today. Before the parliamentary elections in 2019, we gave the Danes a guarantee that we would guarantee less symbolism policy, more real solutions and a new course for Denmark. At that time, the hope of change was more than anything else linked to the desire for climate action, and it still does. I see that when I meet the young climate activist in the Palace Square or in here and see hope in her eyes fade while stubbornness takes over: you owe us a future! And I hear that when I talk to the head of one of Denmark's largest companies, who doesn't actually understand why Christiansborg has so much difficulty in seeing the good business in green change: get started! And I feel that when everything from trade unions to top economists calls for green tax reform, but lacks initiative from here: what are you waiting for? Denmark requires green action. And even though young people, business, science, large sections of the population are slowly losing faith that Christiansborg can deliver, I still believe that we for the Danes have shown us the way. During the parliamentary elections, they stood up in large numbers and voted our country in a new direction, a green direction. The people gave us Constitution Day 2019 the greenest mandate ever given to a Parliament in Denmark. Have we lived up to trust? I'm afraid not yet. The greenest Parliament ever waits for the government to confess its colours, for the government speaks green, but still acts most black and slow. The common climate target will be achieved by 2030, which will ensure that the planet does not burn around our ears, with a technology quick fix, the so-called hockey stick, which we have also talked about here. But the problem with the government's hockey staff is that it looks more and more like a magic wand, as Mrs Sophie Løhde also said, which is supposed to magically make climate problems disappear just before the deadline. But that's not the way the world works. That is why the Prime Minister also tried in his opening speech with something that was certainly with a good intention, but which was also a little rhetorical fever rescue. Ten billion good intentions cannot hide the fact that we have to cut 10 million concrete tons of CO2 and fine words and crafty hockey batter batter not; it is only action that counts. For reality here calls: Our fields are drying out in record hot summers, our cellars are flooded in record wet winters, the ice sheet is melting, the oceans are rising it's And yes, it sounds violent, but the climate crisis is threatening our children and grandchildren's opportunities to live meaningful lives on this planet. And the government's answer is: let's make petrol cars cheaper and green cars more expensive. I think that is a lack of green leadership. So we are in the process of passing on a ruined future to our children, which they cannot repair themselves, no matter what they do. And I hear that the government's argument is: of course we must make Denmark greener, but it just must not cost jobs, equality or welfare. I'm just saying, what if the thinking had been the same back in 1886, when Carl Benz invented the world's first car, or when Henry Ford in 1908 put his Ford T in mass production; we cannot give the world cars, because think of all the unemployed horse bags that it will create. Imagine all the jobs, all the prosperity, all the prosperity that the world had missed if we had listened to those who would rather put the time and the world at a standstill than take a step forward in history. For, of course, when horse-skippers could become taxi drivers, tank attendants can also look after electric chargers. And when taxes can be used to pay early retirement, they can also be used to make Denmark greener. So the time of the bad excuses is just over, guys. We politicians say in chorus all the time, everywhere: we are the first generation to feel climate change, but the last one that can do something about them. But then let's do something about them. I won't let go anymore. So here is a proposal: let us give the Danes a new guarantee, a climate guarantee. For my part, I would like to guarantee that in this autumn, we radically do not add votes to a new financial law unless we put Denmark on the road to a significantly greener future. So this is my promise to the Danes here on my very first day as party leader. If the Left and the Social Democrats want to join, we can extend the guarantee. Together we could do a lot; make the government's proposal for 500,000 green electric cars by 2030 to 1 million. Green cars; we could transform green taxes from abstract principles into concrete reality in the shops in which the Danes buy their goods, so that it is actually cheaper to buy green and more expensive to buy black. And finally, we could make the change of course that means that we do not push the necessary CO2 The Government's own Climate Council has shown the way. Because it's not just about where we are in 2030; it's about how much CO2 we could then gather into one big plan, which is green and financially responsible, and which guarantees that in 2025 we will both have our CO2 reduced and the parties to the right and left of the government are ready; what are we waiting for? So my guarantee today is a guarantee of action for all of you who have been demanding green change for so long. Now it's up to us to find the courage. Will the Left and the Social Democrats be part of such an extended guarantee? It's gonna be hard. We have to make tough decisions, big choices. The first Vice-President and my guarantee is that we must keep to the speaking time and the ten minutes are well exceeded.' And that's why I'm gonna end now. Because I'm sure we can succeed together if we do it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131108	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there a proposal for adoption for the negotiations? Sofie Carsten Nielsen It's not from here, no). There isn't. Good. Then there are a large number of rapporteurs who would like to ask questions, and the first person to speak is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131133	Thank you. And thank you for your speech in a difficult situation. I would like to ask you about the debate on employment. After all, an understanding paper has been drawn up, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that when the understanding paper states that initiatives which may reduce employment are matched by other, but not necessarily simultaneous, measures which at least increase employment accordingly; then initiatives that reduce employment must be matched to one with initiatives that increase employment structurally. I ask interestedly because it is of course important that we continue with the progress we have seen in Denmark, and there it is also about people having a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131237	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we are going to lack a great many people on the Danish labour market • we will be missing over 40,000 skilled workers in 2025. Sometimes it may be a little difficult to deal with in a time of crisis, when there are also people who lose their jobs, but if we do not take care of it out there, it will be even harder for even more. So it is absolutely crucial for us that the people you take out of the labour market are replaced, because that is the backbone of a responsible economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131309	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131310	Thank you. Then it is quite clear to everyone that the Enhedslisten's interpretation of the understanding paper is wrong, because we are talking here about structural employment. We have to understand that you are now close to making an early retirement agreement for Arne. This reduces structural employment by 9 000 and then the question to radicals: what measures do Radicals think should be taken as counter-productive initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131343	Thank you for the question. After all, it is precisely the understanding paper that ensures that it has to be supplied in response to it. I'm not quite sure how far that deal is, but on the other hand, it's the government's responsibility to deliver a bid for it. We would very much like to make a lot of constructive suggestions on this, but it is they who are pulling people out of the labour market who have to deliver the new people, so we have a still responsible economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131417	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131421	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and welcome to the new role. During the 2019 election campaign, the Radical Left was probably the party that fought most against the idea of an exit centre on the island of Lindholm. After all, we managed to get through to the Social Democratic Government by dropping plans for this home-travel centre on the island of Lindholm. But at the same time it was expected that something else would happen. And the people who are still away at the Kærshovedgård exit center in Jutland are, of course, some people who have committed a very serious crime, that is, drug crimes, rape crimes, accusations of war crimes, etc. Does the Radical Left know something that we have not been able to get out of social democracy? After all, we are responsible for the situation we are in, and then we must also be responsible for finding a solution other than the one we others had arrived at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131530	Well, Lindholm was an extremely expensive and mysterious project, which also put another municipality in the country in a very difficult situation. This can be done much smarter. And yes, we are strongly in favour of also finding new exit centres and separating the groups that are at Kærshovedård, but we are awaiting the government. After all, it is the government that must come up with a proposal for how it can be. We had some suggestions in the election campaign, for example. That Soulsmark could be used for that, but it's the government we're waiting for a playout from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131608	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131609	The rapporteur says much smarter, but it is about these people not being in Denmark at all. After all, one of the main problems with those who are at home is that they do not want to contribute to their return journey, and the country of origin will not accept them. So as long as they are allowed to just dwindle it in Denmark and go in and out of an exit center and live their lives in Denmark, why does Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen think that these people are suddenly starting to want to contribute to their return journey? In other words, it is people who are probably known in their country of origin for some pretty bestial things, and they are not interested in going home to their home country, and then we are stuck with them in Denmark. So the thing about finding smarter solutions, because you didn't want the island of Lindholm, is fine, but couldn't you now five quarters after the election campaign find out what the smarter solutions are?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131651	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131652	For me, the smart thing would be to take advantage of one of the many centres that stand empty today and then spend it instead of spending millions of dollars on creating something new. I guess it's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131703	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131709	Thank you. I understand the radicals in that they insist that the improvement of a starving welfare society should be matched by a so-called greater supply of labour. But that really just means that there are some people who are going to be queued in the job centre and there have to, if they are hungry enough, also be ready to take exactly the job that is available regardless of salary and regardless of working conditions. However, low-wage positions in a pressed working environment are also what are sending thousands and thousands in queues for sickness benefit and early retirement. Is it really inconceivable that the Radicals could see the trick of investing in, for example, a good working environment, also in welfare areas, in order to prevent great wear and a great bill for the descendants?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131809	It is not only not unthinkable, we will do so in our own draft budget. It is a very good idea to invest in better working conditions. We're 100% for that. However, I would like to challenge the premise that getting more people into work should mean that some people are starved in a job centre, it does not. It means more people in work, if we abolish the set-off for a national pension or make it smaller then we get more people who have the opportunity to work; there are plenty and lots of proposals. It costs nothing, and it leads to lots of people who can contribute, among other things. Some of the 40,000 skilled workers that we are going to need, because unfortunately we do not have enough training to do so, we also have to invest in them. And if we're gonna be able to afford to invest in it, there's gonna have to be somebody to fill out the jobs in the meantime, or the money won't come in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131913	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131915	Let me take an area that I know very well, namely the area of the elderly, but it could also be the area of day-care. There we know that recruitment is also linked to the fact that you can offer people a decent salary, offer people proper working conditions and offer people the opportunity to solve the tasks. So recruitment for jobs in the future is precisely linked to the fact that you are also prepared to invest in welfare and ensure proper conditions. In the end, it will also benefit the citizens. Could it not make sense to give welfare a proper shell so that we can actually prevent wear and tear in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008131952	We are also in favour of this, and we are also putting money on it in our draft budget. We also want to invest, both in welfare, in better working conditions and in better standards, which are also better working conditions for educators. We are also in favour of all these things, and this requires once again that we can actually afford them and that we therefore ensure a responsible economy. And the backbone of a responsible economy is that there are enough people in work... that's what makes sure we have money to invest in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132023	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132026	Thank you for a speech in a difficult situation. Unfortunately, I have to ask a question which concerns one thing which is a major obstacle to how Enhedslisten and Radicals can push together to raise their ambitions in the area of climate change. For it is the case that in September a national meeting was held in the Radical Left and, in this context, announced that the bill for the green transition should be financed by making inequality-creating and anti-social reforms. In concrete terms, Radicals proposed that the so-called labour supply should be increased by 10,000 people. The main sources of increasing labour supply in recent years have, of course, been a reduction in taxes for those at the top, a higher retirement age, a deterioration in early retirement, the erosion of transfer incomes and the whole range of reforms that are whining around with the sick and the unemployed, and these are reforms that have deteriorated the conditions of wage earners, as they are most. So why is it that, according to the Radicals, the bill should be sent to those who have the least?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132137	It's not. That is simply wrong. We have no plans to send bills for the sick and the unemployed. You can get more people into work in a lot of other ways. I just explained that. You can eliminate the set-off in the old-age pension, and you can lighten the tax at the bottom. This is very good for many people, and people are also getting to work from it. You can advance that agreement on retirement age while improving the senior pension, or you can lower the limit on when you want people to come here. It does not give any bills to the sick and unemployed, it just gives more people to fill the jobs that we do not have people for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132216	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132218	I think it is nice that we can have a concrete discussion here. Because I hear proposals that will further impair pension conditions, I hear proposals that could lead to increased social dumping. But what I really would like most of all to see the Radical Left do is that now that you are so concerned about increasing the supply of work by 10,000 people, you are putting forward concrete proposals on how to ensure and how to propose an increase in the supply of work by 10,000 people. I think you should do that, because then I think we can all have a vision of the legends of seeing what this is about an inequality-building and antisocial policy, which you unfortunately stand for in the daily work here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132258	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the indictment form is, in fact, also to be regarded as direct indictment. I regret to have to address it, but there is no direct indictment in the Parliamentary Chamber. That is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132309	I don't think we're ever gonna get along on how we see the economy, sir. Rune Lund, but I really think it's a little violent fire. We will be presenting our 2025 plan with our bid, but it is not us who have proposed withdrawing 9 000 people from the workforce, and therefore we should not be responsible for delivering the proposals for it either. We don't care about labour supply. We are concerned that there is money to invest in the green transition, that there is money for welfare in the future, that we do not put the bill with our children. That is what we are concerned about; that is what a responsible green economy means to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132357	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132402	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would just like to hold on to this whole discussion about Arnepensionen and the consequences it has. Now I have also tried to sit in government, and I think a little, that if we had to go through with something that would make Denmark 10 billion. kr. poorer and where we needed 3-4 billion each year. kr., or where it ends up, there would probably have been a support party that had thought: Can they just do it bypassing us? You can choose to say that the government must do this and that in this discussion you have been sidetracked or you can actively go in and say: Dear government, we are the support party for you; you simply cannot do this, and if you do this, it has some consequences, or something else has to come instead. It would, of course, be far from me to want this government to fail. That would be too bad. But I do believe that we agree on this very question at length, and I would like to see the bag opened up a little, with regard to how the Radicals intend to react when that agreement comes tomorrow or when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132512	I think we have explained this a long time ago, but I would like to do it again. We have long since decided that we are not set in the world to be against the priorities of other parties, but we are set in the world to afford the green transition, to achieve our goals and to have a responsible green economy in the future. That is what we have assured ourselves in the paper of understanding on which the Socialists are committed and must live up to. It says that taking people out of the labour market is an obligation to ensure that people enter the labour market; that is the guarantee that we can deliver on the commitments that we believe we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132554	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132556	Sounds good if I heard you right. What I am hearing is that if such an agreement is reached, I can assume that it is in the Finance Act that other initiatives can be taken to weigh it up. I assume that has been the demands of the Radical Left on such a budget law, because otherwise the government does not have a majority in favour of a budget law, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132621	It is well understood that we do so every year at the latest in the Finance Act. It would have been beautiful if it were already in place, but at the latest on the Finance Act, and then we have to make up for whether there is a clear and clear direction and a plan for how these people are to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132641	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132645	Thank you so much, and thank you so much for your speech. As I see it, the Radical Left is a party that stands in the middle of the United Nations and more or less welcomes everything that comes from the United Nations headquarters in New York. Whether it is a global objective, refugees, conventions or something quite fourth. But how does the Radical Left view nuclear power? Does the Radical Left also agree on this point with the UN, whose climate panel has stated in a report that we are very busy if we are to keep global temperature increases of 1.5 degrees and that this is probably not possible without greater use of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132735	That's good. Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to show some disagreement with the UN perhaps in this context. It is really the most important thing, because we do not believe that it is the way forward for Denmark, because we are fortunate enough that we can deliver 100 per cent on a large number of other and much greener forms of energy. renewable energy. We are not going to interfere in how other countries make that confusion, but no, I do not believe that we should introduce nuclear power into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132807	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132808	Then the UN's far-off global objective is the case for the Radical Left, but apparently it is not the UN's recommendation for nuclear power. With the answer I can also almost figure out that the Radical Left will not vote in favour of the proposals of the new citizens to enable public energy planning to be organized on the assumption that nuclear power can be used. But then I would like to hear from the rapporteur, the President, whether there are any other recommendations from the UN climate panel, which the Radical Left will also pour down the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132846	I don't know, because I don't have them up here, but I'm sure there is. There are also a great many that we are in favour of, but we do not sign anything just because it comes from the United Nations. But the world goals are just targets on paper. What is important about them is if we can implement them, as Danish companies, together with all sorts of other companies around the world, are doing, because this seems to me to be insanely important and impressive work, i.e. that it is actually really anchored in civil society and companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132917	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008132921	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. I noticed that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said in her speech that the climate crisis threatens the ability of our children and grandchildren to live a meaningful life on this planet. Quote out. My former colleague in the Danish Parliament, Merete Riisager, has just published the book "Self-Builder's Children," and in parentheses it has received very good reviews, and here she warns against the tendency of adults to induce anxiety in children especially in relation to problems that are completely beyond children's ability to address. I agree with Mrs Merete Riisager, and so I would like to ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen whether she does not see a problem in standing on Parliament's platform and firing up under this kind of fear in children? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133018-2	That is a good question and a relevant dilemma. Of course, you have to balance it all the time, and that is also why I ended up talking about everything we could if we wanted to act together, because there are plenty of opportunities. I think it could be a great future. But the reality is that if we don't act, it can be really difficult. That's what I was trying to balance, and now I'm talking to you, too, and you're not kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133048	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133052	I think we can get a little more clarification on what the Radical Left is going to do in concrete terms to avoid inducing this anxiety. I myself am a health rapporteur, and we have worked very hard during the Corona crisis, not to turn it into fear because it is unproductive, but to turn it into taking things seriously, because it is necessary. So what exactly will the Radical Left do to ensure that children do not get into this really unconstructive fear because of something that they cannot do about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133126	I think we need to involve both children and young people very much in the debate, do it constructive, relevant and relevant, but, above all, we need to act in order to live up to the green mandate we have been given. Because the way to counteract anxiety is to show credible that we are acting on that mandate. They are entitled to that, we owe it, and we must.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133154	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133158	Thank you very much. Thank you for a good speech in a difficult situation. I'd like to ask about the green part. I note that the Radical Left, both on the platform and in the press, is thundering against the government for climate bells and actually threatening elections and threatening not to vote in favour of the Finance Act. I think that makes sense, but we were simply so disappointed in the alternative when the Radicals voted against the solar system, the climate tax on meat and the dismantling of oil and gas drilling in the North Sea. That is why I have to ask such a rather harsh question: are the Radicals not part of the climate belly that the government is rightly accused of? How are we to believe in the green intentions of the Radical Left this time, for example? voted against the meat tax which could have got us off the ground a long time ago with the introduction of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133256	Thank you for the question. I think we agree, for example. is the time to stop the eighth round of invitations to tender in the North Sea. It is not climate change, it is action that is required now. I also hope that we agree that we really need a green tax reform with a uniform CO2 level. This is what we think is the most important lever, not a meat tax in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133333	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133334	It is clear that the meat will of course be more expensive through a general climate tax, but we could just get started and that is what I said. But one of the things that I thought was really exciting in the rapporteur's speech was that the Finance Act should signal a significantly greener future, as I understood it. In fact, a guarantee was given that it would show that there was a possibility of a significantly greener future. We will, of course, be very happy about that, but it is also a little elastic in meter size, because we lack some success criteria. What is needed and what are the areas in which the Radicals will vote in favour of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133412-2	It takes us to reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133431	The next brief remark is from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133435	Thank you, and thank you very much for your speech. That was a very fine speech, even in a difficult situation, but welcome in the new role. That was a fine speech, but I must admit that I find it difficult to recognize the Radical Left. In reply to my good colleague Hans Andersen about what should correspond to the reduction in the labour supply that the government seems to want to implement together with a majority in the Folketing, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen left the government to make a bid. And the same was true in reply to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. So I have, I must confess, difficulty recognizing the Radical Left, which tends to be something more forward in the shoes of what kind of policy one would have liked to have pursued. This brings me to the question of something that Sofie Carsten Nielsen did not directly mention, but still revolved around, namely the level of ambition in the government's draft budget for the green transition. Does Sofie Carsten Nielsen think that is enough? Will the economic room for manoeuvre be used to ensure that car taxes are adjusted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133551	Thank you for the questions. The reason why I replied that way is that I think the government owes it because it is when the government takes people out of the labour market to come up with some proposals. On the other hand, I listed a number of proposals in the answer to Mr. Rune Lund: international recruitment, tax relief at the bottom, no set-off in pension. It gives people work. So these are some of the concrete proposals. Yes, we simply do not believe that we can achieve our objectives if we do not also provide ourselves with a permanent green space to ensure that there is always the means to invest in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133632	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133633	Does this mean that the Radical Left will not vote in favour of the draft budget if it is not accepted in the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133647	Well, it was the 10 billion good intentions that came here. It is a good thing that money has now been promised, at least for a temporary period, for a green space. What we are going to measure the government on is whether it will also be delivered on the green bottom line, and that is CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133707	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133711	Thank you, President. Now we heard Mr. Henrik Dahl talk about anxiety in relation to climate • climate anxiety. I know a great many people who suffer from a different kind of fear, namely the fear of the Radical Left, which, of course, is not so much directed towards the future, but to a large extent towards the past, in other words to the way in which the Radical Left has been driving Denmark down in relation to foreign policy and EU agendas, etc. And now, with Mr. Knox... Dahl has brought anxiety into the Parliamentary Chamber today, so I would just like to ask whether Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen agrees with the Prime Minister that immigration policy has failed, because it is probably one of the most fear-provoking areas for many people out there to think about, that is to say that the Radical Left is going to have an impact on immigration policy again. And there I think that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen could strike a great battle to combat fear today if she would agree with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133809	You're tempted to ask, aren't you, sir? Morten Messerschmidt also walks around and is afraid of Radical Left. But I'll stick to the question. Yes, there have been mistakes in foreign policy over the years. I think that is quite real and trivial, and that will probably continue to be the case in the future. It's about how we solve problems. Mistakes have also been made with the support of Morten Messerschmidt's party because they have focused on symbols instead of solving the right problems that would ensure that people came to work, participated in society. A great deal of effort has been devoted to indulging in particular groups of people instead of involving them. But, yes, I am sure that many others, including the Radicals, have also made mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133859	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133900	I think that will be taken very well by the public. And then it would be exciting if Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, like the Prime Minister, could discuss what to do to correct the mistakes of the past. Well, we could, for example. Expect that the Radical Left would think it was a good idea to send criminal foreigners out of Denmark? Could we expect for the Radical Left that it could be a solution to begin to have harsher penalties, higher fines, a ban on residence, that is, all the things that were, as such, at one point, only the ideas of the Danish People's Party, but which have now spread to other parties? Are we in the happy and at least distressing situation that the Radicals are now beginning to move into reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008133939	In reality, there are where the right problems are, which require solutions, and there is, of course, one has to take a position on each proposal. Are these proposals really going to solve any problems? Do they make people live better together? Do those suggestions create more security? We shall take a specific position on this. Sometimes it does. We have, for example. I myself have been involved in reviewing our relationship with the ban on zones, because in vulnerable residential areas we are asking for this to be put into effect, because it creates greater security. On the other hand, it must be said that calling all immigrant boys a problem does not create greater security. It creates divisions, and we will not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134021	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134025	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In his opening speech, the Prime Minister said a lot of nice things about maintaining and expanding our digital leadership position. I was somewhat puzzled by that announcement. Indeed, the government is proposing significant savings in a number of areas that are at the heart of the digitalisation in its Finance Act. This applies, among other things, to: The Danish Data Protection Agency, The Danish Management Agency for IT and Learning, which is cut a lot, and the Danish Digitalization Agency. The wideband pool will be removed completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134108	Thank you for the question. Actually, I think it's super relevant right now. Well, I guess we're practically still away in the middle of corona, and there's a lot of learning we can take. I have heard talk about the fact that we have taken two-year jumps in two months, and that is something we must take advantage of. I also heard the Prime Minister talking in his speech about the need for a digitalisation strategy. I think that is very important that we also get into the financial law negotiations. Because I agree that there must be a massive investment in this, and it will be quite obvious to me that we are investing some of the temporary funds in digitisation, because this is the moment we can raise the gains. Of course, it's a little crooked if you cut back at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134155	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134158	Thank you for that and thank you for agreeing with the rapporteur that it seems strange that one thing is a new strategy, but that we have not made much progress if there is none, for example. The Data Protection Agency, which can handle the task and guide companies in how to handle the Personal Data Regulation. So I would just like to confirm that the Radical Left is not going to be stuck on a financial law that places the digital sector at a disadvantage in the way that has been proposed in the government's financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134224	In any case, we are putting forward our own financial law to prioritise investments in digitalisation. I think it should be a little cautious to say that every small initiative is necessarily detrimental to digitalisation, but we must take a position on what can then replace it. It is not certain, and certainly not in this area, that things must always be as they have been before. However, we are very keen that it should be an investment in digitisation that we will come out with after the financial law negotiations, and not the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134254	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134259	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen referred to the car's invention in 1886 as an example. In 1886 there was also deep poverty and poverty among the general population, especially the workers who worked in the city's factories. All the inventions in the world have not been able to move on except for what might be called an equally good invention, namely the Nordic welfare state. And now I come to the real point, namely that this rhetorical struggle, which is going on a little bit, whether you put the green in front of the red or red in front of the green, seems to me to be a false contradiction. Because we have a completely bottom-up task, and we agree that the climate crisis is mankind's greatest challenge and the greatest task to solve, and we have to solve it. So will Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen not come to me a little by saying that it does not have to be a fight for either one or the other? It is simply a question of political will.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134417	I fully agree with that. It is a question of political will. It must then also be there and deliver on the green transition, because it cannot wait. We have 10 years to do that, so this is the time to make those decisions. In the Radical Left, as you know, we are neither red nor blue, but we are green with you in the SF, hopefully. The most important thing for us is that we achieve those goals, but we plan to invest in welfare, to invest in children and education. That's the way to move on. Well, then you have to give it priority and get it room for manoeuvre. What we're going to do is that when it's not a priority and it turns red before green, it doesn't matter. Then responsibility for achieving the green goals has not been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134507	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134509	I am glad that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen says so clearly today, because I have sometimes had the feeling that it was almost the opposite, that we should use our welfare council for the green. And I think it is a dangerous path to set it up as if it were the only viable path, because then we risk ending up like Paris and other places where we don't get everyone with us. Our prosperity in Denmark has increased by 500 billion. kr. Since the year 2000. That's where I went to high school, and I didn't think we were some poor assholes. I'm sorry about the expression "in this country." So we have a lot of money to do good with if we spend it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134547	Yes, and if we ensure that we have a responsible economy forward-looking. It's the opposite that I really fear. It is that we keep saying: unfortunately we did not reach the green, because we had to reach the red. I cannot accept that contradiction, because then we will not reach the goal, and that is what is important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134607	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134611	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. For the Enhedslisten, it is also crucial that the green transition that needs to be carried out does not create increased inequality and that it does not go beyond welfare, but that we go where the money is. That is why we have tabled a financing proposal, in which we, among other things, have tabled a proposal. want a progressive millionaire tax. We want greater control of tax havens; we want capital and share incomes to be taxed as wage incomes, etc. The radical tax rapporteur characterised it as an old-communist way of thinking. I just want to know if fighting tax havens, the fact that many millionaires have to pay a little more in taxes, is radically considered to be old communist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134706	I love the radical tax rapporteur because she has a strong language. No, control of tax havens is not old communist. I think we agree on that, by the way. But a large number of the other things that shrink the economy and make it harder to operate or be an entrepreneur in Denmark, we do not believe in. Because if we shrink the economy, we cannot afford to invest in what I have just said, namely both our welfare and the green transition. And that's what drives us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134739	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134740	Well, let's take the issue of progressive millionaire tax. For example, it will. mean that people who earn 10 million. kr. or 20 million kr., does not have to pay the same tax rate as people who earn 1 million. kr. This will, of course, help to counteract the extreme inequality that we see globally and that we see in Denmark. I cannot understand why the Radicals are not cheering over why it is necessary to talk about the supply of labour, which is reminiscent of the terrible reforms against the unemployed carried out by the Radicals at Thorning. Why not embrace some of these proposals from the Enhedslisten so that we can press for them to be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134827	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134828	That is enough because we are not a member of the Enhedslisten. We're radicals. There are many things I do not understand in Enhedslisten's policy either. I think that the proposals put forward by the Enhedslisten help to reduce the economy, and that worries me, because then we will not be able to hold on to responsibility in the long term and then we will not be able to achieve the objectives that I am concerned with and which Mr. Søren Søndergaard also knows that, and thank you very much for that. We have different ways of doing this. We just have to agree on that. Then there's something we can meet about: control of tax havens, yes. Scrubbing the economy, making it harder to run business and be an entrepreneur in Denmark, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134906	The next brief remark is from Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008134910	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. After all, we have the diversity of our parties, despite the convergence of views in a number of areas, and one of them is in the field of health, where I have also noted that the Radical Left has an ambition that we should have a well-functioning and solid health care which can provide the Danes with security if you need it. A well-functioning health service also belongs to doctors, and it is well known that we have a great medical shortage in this country. In particular, we have a great lack of medical practitioners, in other words those with whom we meet at the very forefront of health care, and who can give it that continuity and that knowledge, that is, a doctor who knows his patients and whom you get a relationship with. What will the Radical Left do to provide some more practitioners who are so important to our health and our health?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135006	Just this isn't, I'll admit, my primacy. As Minister of Education, I helped to establish more places in medical school. By the way, the government has done the same. We need more, too, to train more. We also need to make it more attractive and I think that is what the rapporteur is asking primarily to have practices all over the country, and that is why we also need to be more flexible in terms of how to adapt, so that it is attractive to practice all over the country. I am concerned that there are areas in the country and they need not be far from Copenhagen where it is simply so difficult to get practitioners close to people. Then we may have to think a little more creatively, also in terms of how you can have a number and that kind of more technical thing about a medical practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135058	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135100	Well, the reason I'm asking a little bit about it is that according to the forecasts, which include: The PLO has done, we have 3,300 practitioners today, and because more and more tasks are being pushed out to the general practitioners, and because we have a demographic development that means that we get a lot of 8/80-year-olds with multi-diseases and so on, we get up and need in the vicinity of 5,000 practitioners. In fact, I tabled a motion for a resolution this summer to train over 700 more general medical practitioners, i.e. specialists in general medicine, and the Radical Left voted against my proposal to train more doctors. In fact, I was somewhat disappointed in that. That is why I think that what the Radical Left is going to do to ensure that all Danes have access to a doctor who they know.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135150	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135151	We have such a practice in the Radical Left that we are not only voting in favour of proposals that cost a great deal of money, without including funding proposals, and I think that is very healthy. But does this not really highlight the need for us to achieve the health reform that is also planned? There is a need to rethink now, where at least a majority of us agree that the regions must be preserved and that we find out how we will have more certainty that there are practitioners for all Danes. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135225	The next brief remark is from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135229	Thank you. And thank you to Sofie Carsten Nielsen for the very fine rapporteur speech. I would also just like to say that we in the Left fully share the frustration about the lack of action on climate policy. So thank you for addressing it, too. Now my question is to the rapporteur: why has the Radical Left not managed to get through this agenda? Well, there's broad support for it in here in the Folketing. Is it really because the supporting parties who claim otherwise, just as the government has been declared more red than green? Is it really the same as for the support parties? Are they really more red than green?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135311	In any case, it is the case that 90 mandates are needed to ensure that action can be taken. But I am glad, by the way, that we actually secured action just before the summer recess. And it wasn't exactly with the government's good will, but we did. Initiatives were taken both to reduce CO2 emissions in cooperation with the Left. We very much appreciate this in the Radical Left, and we hope that this will lead to more results. That is the way to do it, i.e. to keep pushing for green action. At least we will not stop doing that at all. But it is true that 90 mandates have to be given, and it was also my answer to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Nielsen before, which was about the fact that if it ends up with the fact that the green one is always put at the end of the day, it is not real green action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135409	Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135411	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is very important, in relation to climate policy, that the Left and the Radicals are pushing for this together, because otherwise we will not be able to listen to the government very much anymore. Are the Radicals not really aware that this creates a bad negotiating climate, since the minister in the area in question calls the party rabid?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135440	As I said before, when I asked a question, I will just soon wear it as a badge, i.e. the rabiliat, because it is clearly equal to responsibility, action and reason, as I hear the rapporteur from the Left here from the platform say it. And I feel really, really good about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135507	The last one who asks when to have the opportunity to ask questions in this round here is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135515	Thank you very much for your speech. The climate debate is important, and I also know that the speakers do not have much time to get around all the things you want to do about it. That is why I would like to ask some of the questions that concern me very much as rapporteur on health and psychiatry. That's some of what's happening right here and now. Within the last week, there have been three serious attacks of people with a psychiatric condition. This is a problem we have to deal with here and now, and I would like to hear how the Radicals, who are actually the supporting party for the government that is currently in office, will solve this problem. We cannot wait for a 10-year plan, which may not be in 1, 2 or 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135605	I agree with the rapporteur that we cannot wait for that. Fortunately, we have a very active and skilled psychiatry rapporteur and we are going to take this up. The government itself does that in concrete terms. We have invested in psychiatry on last year's Finance Act, so we need to ensure that these specific cases are dealt with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135629	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135630	Money has been set aside for the psychiatry on last year's Finance Act, and fortunately the Danish People's Party had the stake pool removed, so now you have to take it from the Finance Act; I really appreciate that. But one thing is that you care about it, another thing is what you push on with. What do you say here in the Finance Act that we should do with some of these who are suffering? There are families who have lost, and there are families whose young people have fallen victim to their illness. What are you doing here and now when we are faced with a financial bill debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135704	Well, I hope we do that, too, before we go to financial law negotiations. Mrs Liselott Blixt knows very well that when you are a support party you can fortunately take advantage of asking questions. Moreover, it can of course be the whole Parliament and press for action to be taken on specific cases and follow-up. And I expect our psychiatry rapporteur will do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135731	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008135746	Reduction targets, efficiency gains, target management, some will overturn someone, some are angry that others will not overturn anyone and some are just more angry than others. This is how I think a lot of people outside these thick walls at Christiansborg look at Danish politics: abstract concepts, technology and theatrical order. And I would actually like to admit that the first version of this speech could be cut right over that model. But then I remembered a request from a worried mother. Her daughter is 10 years old, she loves Harry Potter, pizza and Friday candy. She's having a hard time watching a whole school day. She has no diagnosis, but she quickly gets stressed and sad. She can be crying all night after a school day. She doesn't fit into any class, so she can't get help. The family has run their foreheads against the municipal wall time and time again. The mother gradually finds it difficult to do her job. They have no idea what to do, and the family is on the verge of a breakdown. I remembered the desperate mother because the Children's Terms on Monday put up a lot of chairs in the Palace Square to shout us politicians up and tell us that too many children have too much absenteeism from school. Not because they're lazy, but because they're sick, miserable, they don't fit in, they come from home with violence and abuse. The Social Distress was on Karma's chair. "My father is violent," said the 13-year-old Sola's chair. Online bullying was on the 11-year-old Sine's chair. In the chair of 16-year-old Johan. The chairs on the palace square and the announcement from a desperate mother were, for me, a clear reminder of what this is all about, why we so desperately need a new majority and why a new policy is needed. We were elected because so many Danes want a society in which we put children who are miserable before saving gains in a deadly spreadsheet, because we do not accept that children should grow up in poverty, and where, as a citizen with disabilities, you get the help that the law says you have the right to, where we do not accept that the elderly are abandoned and where we get a little more peace in society at all. And yes, we've so far got the community safely through corona, cleverly managed by our prime minister. But these kids, these older ones and the most vulnerable are still out here. And for too many of them, Corona was just too bad. Not because the zoom meeting or the couple dinner is canceled. No, for them the hard times are really brutal, with loneliness, anxiety, and some of them escalating domestic violence. I will go so far as to say that we should actually have Karmas or Solana's empty chair standing in here every day as a reminder of why we are here and remembering each other that there are children and adults out there who desperately need us. Finance law under finance law must be measured by how we combat inequality and distrust and whether we manage to make our society just a little bit more just. That is why we need to speed up minimum standards, we need to have smaller classes in primary school and to put an end to the idea of inclusion at all costs. We must have permanent staff in nursing homes and in care for the elderly, staff who have time to deal with a dement and who are able to establish strong, loving relations with the elderly, because our welfare society is about us being bound together by a strong community. We're not customers at the welfare store. So we should not punish sick people on early retirement just because their spouse is at work. Our duty is step by step to make Denmark fairer. I'm sorry, but I'm getting a little touched. I think it's hard. Then we must make Denmark more green. We must also deliver that hope. In fact, I am also touched when I think of the major climate demonstrations leading up to the elections with lots of green hopes. I am so incredibly lucky that I have three young women in my life: my daughter and my two bonus daughters. They expect us to do everything in our power to achieve our climate goals. The next generation is counting on us. It's not a joke that we're gonna turn on the climax when the young people demand action. Let us take a step back: when the temperature rises from 1.5 to 2 degrees, twice as many animals, plants and insects will die out than would otherwise be the case. Such a huge loss of species will cause ecosystems to collapse, that agriculture will lack insects to pollinate crops. As the temperature rises by 1⁄2 degrees, the number of extremely hot days increases exponentially, and this means severe, life-threatening drought in some places and significantly more rain and extreme floods elsewhere. This could threaten food safety around the world. And I guess that's still a scenario where we stick to about two degrees. Each time the temperature rises by an additional 1 degree, it will look still sort out. This is the reality for future generations if we do not act. That is the future we are debating. A great deal has happened on paper in the area of climate change. We have a binding climate law, a 70-percent target by 2030, but it is not enough alone. We need concrete CO2 There is nothing wrong with technology. Wind turbines, solar cells, heat pumps and electric cars are essential for the green transition, but I would just like to raise the index finger a little over-confidence that a new and more or less unknown technology can cope with most of the climate challenge, is dangerous for what if technology optimism is optimistic. There is a need for concrete climate action here and now. The young people are not naive; they know that the rest of the world is going along, but they also know that we can make a difference if we in small wealthy, well-functioning Denmark will. We ask young people to take an education and prepare for the future, and we ask them to make an effort and to be good citizens of society. Is it too much to ask that we not only promise them but also show them that we take responsibility for the future we pass on to them and that we will pursue an honest, realistic climate policy and listen to science? Should we not give the young people that generation promise and promise them that we will take care of their land until they have to take over it, with serious agreements and with green leadership? That's SF's ambition in the fall. The last part of my speaking time I would like to use to reach out to all party leaders here at Christiansborg. I've been thinking a lot about how we treat each other in here, how we treat each other in politics. I do, because 322 women recently sent out a clear and clear call against Christiansborg. It was stories of rape, it was stories of threats, it was stories of humiliating comments. Overall, there is a picture of a caricature that does not belong in 2020. I think we should meet at party leader level. I think we should look at each other deeply and say that we will do everything in our power to make young women feel that there is room for them in Danish politics. We all have a responsibility. We cannot change the past, but we can take responsibility for the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140731	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are a number of Members who would like to put questions to the rapporteur. The first person to be allowed to do this is Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140741	Thank you for that, and thank you for the excellent cooperation in Parliament's European Committee, where we pressured the government to lift its ambitions on behalf of the climate from a target of a CO2 by 2030 to 65%. In 2030, a figure which, of course, escapes with the recommendations of science if we are to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. We had excellent cooperation with the SF and with the Radical Left and with the Enhedslisten in that matter, but my question is whether the SF is a bit disappointed that it needs to devote so much effort to getting the government to be ambitious in the climate area when we speak Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140829	I never really use the concept of disappointed about those with whom I negotiate politics. It's the kind of thing I stay over my kids or my husband. But with regard to politics, it is more so that we have political disagreements. I had no expectation in any way that the Socialists would so bump out there on the green agenda. I have seen over and over again that it has been the SF that has helped to push the government. We saw this in the understanding paper, where we had an excellent collaboration with Enhedslisten and the Radicals to ensure that 70% of the supplies were delivered. CO2 It didn't come by itself. It's the same thing I can see here. I was glad that the Left was involved in that cooperation, so thank you very much for that. That is what it takes to move Europe as a whole. I think this is the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140918	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140919	I'm glad. I will almost allow myself to conclude as follows: Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is not disappointed, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is angry. And I'm glad, because that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140934	No, I'm just not surprised. I am used to the fact that we in the SF have to fight the fights over and over again, and sometimes it is a difficult combination both to be red and green. But at the moment we deliver a lot of results, I think we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140946	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008140950	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned something about climate negotiations, among other things. concrete CO2 Now we have seen that the government has come up with a proposal for transport negotiations, the so-called climate negotiations, and little more electric cars have been included in that proposal than would have come of themselves, and then there is an effort to increase the incorporation of biofuels into diesel and petrol. This is really going to be a bad solution, which increases the use of food in cars in order to get across the asphalt. I think this is a really bad solution, which on paper can give CO 2 2 Enhedslisten has actually stood with SF to say no to the incorporation of more biofuel in 2021. So I would like to hear here before the negotiations: will the SF help to say no to more biofuels based on food in what is to be negotiated between 2022 and 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141058	Yes, our ambition is to talk about biofuels of the second generation or the third generation. That's what's gonna be the genius. And what does that mean? It gets a little nerdy, I'm sorry, but I think it's exciting, but what is it that you use to mix in when you make biofuels? I don't think we should use food. It's in the first generation. However, if we can start using residues, waste and other things, we are starting to get the technology development that can get the climate debate going right. Then we will, for example, when we get there. Throwing away our household garbage and the Danes have fortunately begun sorting out something more • could use it in our gasoline. And look, then it starts to become an adventure, and then we might get the technological fix that some people want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141141	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141142	Now the rapporteur did not quite answer the question. I would like to know whether SF will help ensure that an agreement is made that does not increase the mixing of food from 2022 in the transport agreement that is being made. I fully agree that something can arise in the future that is far better than putting food into the tank, and we are also very much in the Enhedslisten to look at that, but there we are on that track where you can hope for something that comes close to 2030. However, will SF help to ensure that there will be no increased incorporation requirements for food in first generation biofuels from 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141217	The answer is yes, and I would like to say yes again. I was also just trying to put a little more words on it, because I think it is an important agenda. When we talk about climate and transport, that is where we have to invest if we are going to start with the next generations of biofuels. That is, for example, the case. at the Måbjergværket over in Vestjylland, where we know that you can start burning food residues, i.e. the waste from our food. This is one of the paths we need to take down in order to lift the climate agenda. So yes, we are fighting with the Enhedslisten here, and then we must hope that we can move all the others and get the ambitions up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141251	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kathrine Olly, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141255	Thank you so much, and thank you so much for your speech. In the Radical Left, we wonder a little bit about the fact that a number of vulnerable residential areas with rising unemployment due to corona are now on the hard ghetto list, which means the demolition of good apartments, forced relocations, rehousing, and the possible sale of general housing and buildings to private people. This is one of the things we wonder about, and then the question is to SF: Will you not help pause the ghetto list to reduce insecurity among residents in residential areas that are on the verge of being labeled as hard ghettos?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141336	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141337	The questioner for another round.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141339	By the way, I regret the direct indictment I took on myself. I think that is an extremely welcome response from the SF, which should clear up some headlines. I am happy to pass it on to our hinterland, so I thank you very much for your goodwill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141404	You're welcome. I think that corona is a very special situation, and we have fought elsewhere for the same thing to happen. Among other things: SF has helped to ensure a death period for the daily allowance, and the same is true in relation to our vulnerable areas. However, I would like to add that, in general terms, I believe that we have a particular challenge in our general sector to ensure that there are mixed residential areas and that we do not live separately. For then it will be difficult to carry out the tasks of ensuring that everyone has the opportunity for the good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141432	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141435	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur began by saying a little about some being upset about one and others being upset about the other. I'd like to start by saying that I'm not mad at anything almost. But now that I heard the rapporteur's speech, I would like to say that I understand the seriousness of it, but that it was not cheerful either on certain lines, and this is what I sometimes think is getting a little heavy, namely this eternal talk about the whole public sector, and that everything is just wrong, that it has been starved and that now we have to rebuild it and that everything is oh woe and horror, and that it can hardly get any worse. Then we must hope that there is a place on Earth where you can live, because I hardly know where you should go if you should feel better. But where is the respect for those who are at work? It is as if we are saying that we can just give people a lot in transfer income, that there should not be a ceiling on cash benefits, that there should be no difference between being in work and being in transfer income. Shouldn't we consider at some point making demands on people and also asking people to take responsibility, have expectations of them, instead of just saying that we should make sure that you have an almost as large income by sitting at home as by going to work? I don't think that's good for any human being.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141554	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141555	I have no doubt about that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen heard my speech. Because I don't think I was talking about benefits at any time. In fact, I was talking about some of the many failed children who are not seen today, who are landing between chairs, and where I am not just saying that the welfare society should pick them up. I say that is our responsibility, including everyone here, and that applies to all adults. I am very much in favour of strong civil society organisations that help to take these children into the community so that they do not become isolated. So I was a little surprised by the question. We can then move on to a discussion on the welfare society and whether we think that is good enough. No, I don't think so. After 20 years of savings, the children's area will now have a huge boost with minimum standards, and that is not because it will be a paradise out there, but we will make sure that there is a bottom and then there is a chance that some of the children who have a difficult daily life will also be seen. But it can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141646	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141647	Let us then agree to do all we can together for a strong civil society. At least we can find each other there. However, if you want to strengthen what the rapporteur calls welfare, then we can discuss a lot where the limits are and what the costs are and all this costs a lot more money, then we must at least agree on that. And then I think, where are they supposed to come from? If we take people out of the workforce and we all get poorer, where is the growth coming from? Surely we need growth in order to pay for the increased welfare, and is there for the SF a limit on how large the public sector should be at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141727	Yes, there is a limit to the size of the public sector. I think it is important that there is a balance between the private and the public sectors, and the reason why this is important is, of course, that each of us, when we go to work, should know that our Aunt Else, who may be living in a nursing home, is safe so that we do not have to worry about it every day so that we can go to work safely and be effective at our work. I noted that Danish Occupation has been out and worried over and over again that there are not enough conditions in our day care institutions, because they are concerned about whether parents spend all their time thinking about their children instead of being effective at their work, and that balance is important. The private sector and the public sector are not the opposite, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen almost makes it, but they are each other's prerequisites.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141810	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141813	Thank you so much, and thank you so much for your speech. First, I want to start with a little story. A few weeks ago, I was invited by talented and committed students at the Handelsgymnasium Niels Brock to talk about the possibility of forced distribution that all the parties of the Danish Parliament, except us in New Citizens, have adopted in the field of high school. The students are frustrated by the removal of the free choice, where well-functioning Danish students can now be forced into troublesome immigrant gymnasiums, and I am quite in line with the students. For Danish children and young people, of course, should not be penalised for politicians' failed immigration policy, and I have, unfortunately, previously asked the Minister for Children and Education without success about the empirical basis that proves that forced distribution works. Can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr explain this briefly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008141917	I believe that meeting each other in everyday life can be in the day care institution, it can be in school, it can be in youth education • cross-social divides, origins, other ethnic origins or Danish ancestry, is the best foundation for ensuring a common society. That is what creates the cohesion force. That's where we learn to understand that Hanne, who doesn't bring a lunch with them because they don't have money that month, suddenly feels a helping hand from Laura, who might bring an extra food. It binds society together, it makes us stronger for the future, and if we do not also make sure that we meet each other in our youth education programmes and that we cannot just isolate ourselves from each other, then I am not sure that our society will be as strong in the future. In fact, I believe that this could be very dangerous for our society. I think you're losing cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142021	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142022	Thank you. Yes, the rapporteur believes, and I understand that the rapporteur is having a hard time giving a clear answer. For the truth is that there is no empirical basis for it, on the contrary. A report from 2019 by Rambøll shows that social control and self-segregation among Muslim students are prominent in high schools, and that it is the parents' attitude to Danish society that largely governs whether social integration takes place. And research from Aarhus University shows that the grades and well-being of the non-western pupils in primary school are actually deteriorating when they are referred to school classes with a majority of Danish pupils. Is Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr still sure that forced distribution is the way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142110	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142111	I think it's a good thing we meet across. Yes, I do, and I think I have an excellent example in my own parliamentary group. After all, Mrs Halime Oguz experienced coming to a university and meeting other ethnic Danish, and this made her break some muscles out of the negative social control she was in, and we experience a lot of women of other ethnic origin getting the muscles because they become part of the Danish society. I am not interested in isolating them, as Mrs Mette Thiesen is. I am actually a little surprised that New Citizens want to isolate them even more and put them under more social control. We only break with this by breaking with it in school, in youth education and in day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142154	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142158	Thank you. Let me start by commending Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a good and passionate speech where there was some thoughtfulness and some emotions, and I think that is nice, it suits the Danish Parliament and also the rapporteur on an important subject, namely young people who are miserable. I think we will be discussing this much more in the Folketing in the coming year. But that is not really what I want to address. I noticed that in the answer to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen mentioned Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is important that when you go to work, you should be safe, that your mother is treated well in nursing homes and your children are well in day care, and back and forth. And it's not just about the public sector having more money, it's also about there having to be good management and getting rid of bad managers in the public sector, so just an example of that is the nursing home Else was at, Kongsgården. Yeah, well, there's the head of that nursing home... not got fired. That manager just moved to another nursing home. I think that somewhere is a scandal, but it is a bit the culture of the public sector: the bad leaders are not being dismissed. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that there is a need for a lay-off reform in the public sector that makes it easier to get rid of bad leaders. And I really want to know if SF agrees with the problem and would like to look at some solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142305	At any rate, I agree that we need a governance reform in the public sector. I always get a little worried when the Liberal Alliance says firing reform, because then I see a lot of public employees who no longer have to look after or be with our children, and I don't see any employees in our nursing home either. But I don't think that's it, sir. Alex Vanopslagh means. I would therefore like to say that I am also concerned with looking at public sector management, and I believe that we can do a great deal and do much better, from the nursing home to our health care and our day care institutions. In fact, I think we have gained some experience here in Corona, which shows so much that when we dare to set public employees a little more free, so that they have more responsibility for their own field of work and cultivate their professional skills, we can do much more. And I would like to see that done far more, far down the road in the public sector. I would also like to thank you for your support. I know I was a little emotionally affected, but I think it is an incredibly important discussion that we need. We really need to discuss what we are doing about distrust in our children and young people, so thank you for your support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142411	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142412	I would very much like to take that discussion another time. It is simply too important and too much discussion to be able to deal with it in 20 seconds, especially because it is a problem throughout the West. It's not just in Denmark. It is not just because of our social benefits that we have too many expectations in the education system. It is throughout the Western world that young people are having a hard time in life. But we'll take it another time. We fully agree on more freedom for public servants, of course. What I am interested to know is: will a red majority with SF also be interested in looking at removing some of the privileges that make it simply too difficult to get rid of, among other things. leaders in the public sector? This is among other things. they are considered to be a party entitled to be a party to the hearing if they are to be dismissed. It's not like that anywhere else. These are some of the privileges in the public sector that you can go in to remove, but it is going to hurt, also on some core voters of the SF. But it is for the benefit of the citizens. Is that something you're willing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142456	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142457	Now I really think that hearing by parties is a very good principle to have when you fire people, so you hear what they have of assessments of the matter. I don't think that's what prevents us from firing government executives. I want a lot of this discussion, and I also think we can do better in the public sector. We can see and now I live in the City of Copenhagen that some of the places where you have had talented leaders in our primary school have actually been able to help solve some of the integration problems we have seen. The Councilmansgade School is a good example of what has succeeded quite well in breaking the basket, and then we have other schools where it has not succeeded. We should, of course, pass on that experience, which is why we also need to discuss whether you are a good enough leader. Agreed!
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142536	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142540	Thank you, and thank you for a good speech. 11,000 Danes have to leave their homes, thousands of them are thrown out, some of them in the middle of this pandemic. It is not because they have made noise, nor because they have not paid rent, it is because they have been hit by the ghetto package, for which the SF has voted. The idea has been to make social dispersal, and we think that in the alternative is a good idea, but we just don't think it should happen this way. Both the Institute for Human Rights and Sofie Lippert, who is the youth chairman of the SF, believe that this is directly racist. My question is, when we throw so many women, men, children, families with children out of their homes, and these are also people, even though many of them have a different skin color, the price is not too high, compared to what is the purpose of that law? Can SF guarantee that these people get rehousing at the same price and quality, and can SF guarantee that some of these people and children's families don't end up on the street and really get into the homeless statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142647	Yeah, no one's gonna end up on the street. Last time I checked, and I'm sorry it was probably a few weeks ago, no one was standing on the street or had been thrown out of their house or apartment. In fact, we must do our best to ensure that this does not happen at all, and this is about changing the premises in our non-profit housing some of the places on the ghetto list. It is about getting people into work, it is about ensuring that they are more mixed residential areas. Why is this so important? Why has so much energy been invested in it? Of course you do, because we need somebody to mirror ourselves in. So I come from a home where there was alcohol; I come from a home where you were on transfer income, and if I hadn't had someone else to mirror me in, I wouldn't have been here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142737	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142738	But what social impact does the rapporteur think it has on families to be thrown out of their homes, that children have to change schools, that other friends have to be found, that they have to move and change their lives? Does the rapporteur not see that this is a social disaster for people of different ethnic backgrounds from Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142808	I think the rapporteur should bear in mind that we are really cleaning up after very, very many years of rooting. We got off the hook in the non-profit sector and didn't make sure it got mixed up. In some places you have, there are places where you have taken a great deal of responsibility to ensure that you have both had people at work, people who are not at work, people who are students, people who are pensioners, and in this way you have ensured that it is a mixed residential area. In fact, once you have done so, you have also succeeded in having a well-functioning residential area. But if we have areas where people live in isolation from the rest of society, we are failing those people, and that is what I do not want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142856	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142859	I would like to thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for what I have done, like Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Alex Vanopslagh perceived as a very good speech with a focus on an issue that is too rarely discussed, namely distrust and particularly distrust among children; in return, the child issue is often discussed and indeed also by SF. And that is why I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr what the answer is to the many children I think it is 22,000 children who go to private day care institutions who could see that their everyday life should not be improved, since public institutions were given better standards because extra educators were set aside. Well, why is it that those children have not earned the better everyday life that SF thinks they in public institutions have earned?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008142950	I think we should make a deal. I think we should agree that none of the private institutions take out money and put it in the pockets of someone other than the children. If the Left can promise that, then the SF is willing to look at whether minimum standards should also apply in these day institutions. But as long as the money is just poured down somewhere where we don't know if it's going to profit and being spent on something quite different than on the kids, I won't help pouring money into that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143021	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143023	After all, I commended Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr most sincerely for a very good speech, but I do not want to commend this answer, because it was a non-answer. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is beginning to talk about the profits of private institutions. I'm talking about kids. And even if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is dissatisfied with the fact that these parents have chosen to put their children in a private institution, then surely the children should not suffer. So I just ask again: why have these children not earned more educators when the children in public institutions have earned it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143055	I'm gonna have to ask Mrs. Rosa Lund to stay ready. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143101	I also think that these children deserve minimum standards, and so I am willing to send the money according to minimum standards, including in private institutions. I just want to make sure that the money is spent on the kids. That is why I say that we must then close the gap that allows private institutions to take out the money and spend it on something quite different. That's the challenge. The challenge is not, of course, whether we can do it in the private institutions. I just don't want to send
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143133	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143134	Thank you to the President for giving me a head-up. And thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a very good speech. I was also a little touched, so I really think you can feel that we have a common cause here. This is something else I would like to ask about: the investigation into the defence intelligence service. In 2012, the SF helped to make an agreement which meant that we actually now have less supervision of our intelligence services than we do in other countries, and now it has been decided that we should now carry out a study in which we, the parties of the Folketing, and the public cannot even see the mandate. So I should like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: how do we get a guarantee that all the criticisms raised by supervision will actually be examined?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143221	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143222	It is important for us in the SF that there is democratic control of our intelligence services. That is why we have the Control Committee and we have also helped to set up supervision, because it was important for us that we can keep an eye on the secret services doing what they have to do and that they live up to the law. And that is also our ambition with the work that is going to start now. Mrs Lund knows that I cannot talk about the content here, because that is the premise that is also for this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143259	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143300	Precisely because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr cannot talk about the content, it is of course that I would like a clear answer as to how we will then have a guarantee that the things raised by the supervision are actually what is being investigated. We, the parties of the Folketing, cannot see the mandate, and the people cannot see the mandate, so how do we get a guarantee that the things raised by the supervisory board, which are supposed to be the democratic control of the Defence Intelligence Service, are in fact also being investigated? How will SF ensure that we all get that guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143337	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143338	I think this is a very good question, and so I agree with Enhedslisten that it is absolutely essential that we have democratic control over our intelligence services, and that is what the supervision raises in the press release that has been sent out to the public, and we will do our best to comply with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143357	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143359	Thank you. Both Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I are mothers, and we have children about the same age. I can then also inform Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that both our children have been selected for talent courses in their respective schools: my son in his local primary school and the rapporteur's daughter in private school. First of all, congratulations on that. I think you should be proud of when your kids are doing well. So it's really nice. I am incredibly proud of my son that he could actually be admitted to a talent program. They are 3 children out of over 80 children in the primary school who could go on talent courses; that is what is available. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr if the SF does not also want talent courses in primary school. SF has helped to vote through an act that removed the talents of the primary school for 65 million. kr. Isn't it a shame if people who have children who are talented have to send their children to private school?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143457	I think it is important that we give priority to our common primary school and that we give it so much priority so that there is really scope for differentiated education, so that the rapporteur's child is focused and that children can have the challenges he/she needs in their daily lives. I think that is absolutely crucial, otherwise our primary school will not meet the level of primary school. I think it is crucial that we keep thinking about how we can develop primary school. One of the things SF has proposed is that we set the primary school more free and that we are really trying to let them manage themselves, because we know that it might make it even easier to do this kind of differentiated teaching. And I think that is important, because otherwise we risk too many people choosing an alternative instead of choosing primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143546	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143546-2	Now you shouldn't be so worried about my son, because he was one of three in the entire year who was allowed to go on the talents, and I am really grateful for that. They were eight children who were taken, who were talented enough to go, and there was only room for the three. I don't know how to narrow it down, but I'm kind of worried about everyone I think all children should meet at the level they have, even if they go to primary school, and if it's that they don't feel challenged enough there, I think it should be possible for everyone, regardless of their wallet, to choose a free school or a private school. Because there may be many reasons for this, and here I also see that SF supports making pools around free and private schools. So how will you ensure that all children can be challenged at the level they are on, forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143631	We would also like to look at whether to do such special courses in primary school; we are not opposed to that. What was done in the Finance Act, and I think that should be done here, was to remove this money in order to invest in the education of teachers, because we thought that the education of teachers should have a boost. And that is the challenge we sometimes face. It is, of course, that priority must be given. Priority must be given to whether educators really have to come to the level of teachers in terms of education, and that is what we did in the Finance Act. But I must not deny that we can find a model for it where we can introduce some special courses in primary school. I think that is a good idea, and I also think that there should be an opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143708	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143712	Thank you very much for a very passionate speech. It made me very happy, especially when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned that Denmark must be a fairer country. After that, it warmed my heart as a retailer when she started talking about the welfare store. In order for the welfare store to have goods on the shelves, it is important that the Danish business community can throw some money in the store. I would like to ask a little about SF's attitude to the rather massive tax increases that the government has put forward, but let us just focus on the tax increases that affect Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143759	We have had a lot of years of tax relief in Denmark. It can be felt by our welfare. This has been felt in the area of children, which has been subject to savings for more than 20 years. It is time for us to put on the agenda that I do not know if we can use such a language in here and put a plug in the hole and stop the savings and cuts on our common welfare and instead invest in it. Of course, it takes money to do that. We are very financially responsible in the SF, so of course we find the money, and I think that some of the proposals put forward by the government are good. SF suggests ourselves that we look at a tax on the tech giants. This is among other things. Apple, Google and Facebook, which can also be allowed to contribute to the common welfare community. Is this a huge problem for Danish business? I don't think so. I believe that the fact that we are looking at making a fair tax on some of those who do not pay taxes in Denmark will place some others in Denmark more fair in the competition. I can, for example. mention the daily newspapers, which experience that they are taxed while they can see that the large tech giants are not subject in the same way to tax. There are other things we can look at too. I'm not the kind of guy who just tells us to turn up the tax button. I don't even have a tax button that I'm screwing on. I think it should be fair taxation, but of course business must also contribute to our common society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143917	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008143918	The Danish business community does so to a great extent in this country. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said earlier that Denmark should be more green and that sometimes it has been difficult whether one should be a red or green party. If we look at the generational transfer tax, the one called the gift, estate and inheritance tax, it is, after all, a tax of 1,300 million. DKK, with which the government wants to punish the Danish business community. It's a generational change, and when you do this, it will mean that when a company goes from being owned by one generation to being owned by another, that money has to be taken from the company's own funds, which means that the company doesn't have the opportunity to make the green transition as quickly as if you didn't take the money from the company that they have saved up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144004	I think it is reasonable that when you have a large company and pass it on to the next generation it is really a big fortune that you pass on to the community, you are also there to contribute to the community. I can see some challenges, and that is why we are not doing it at all in the same way as we are doing with incomes. It is not taxed at the same level. I think you should keep that in mind. Of course, we have an interest in companies moving on afterwards as well. But when we look at the way in which we tax incomes, we tax incomes relatively high in this country, and if I compare it with how we tax many other things, then we have to say that they are almost easily taxed. The balance we sometimes have to think about is who we are taxing. The cashier often pays 40%. of its income in tax. Not all business owners pay the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144059	Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144100	Thank you. We have many traditions here in the Danish Parliament, among others. The opening debate, and I am probably one of those who like traditions very much and want to stick to them. That is why, of course, I am also asking questions to the SF's rapporteur today, because it has almost become a tradition as well. It was the case that we had the Minister for the Environment in consultation yesterday about the generational pollution to try to put pressure on the government to allocate some funds so that we can get to work on the clean-up. The left, also with the SF, has fought that battle, and we had before the summer holidays among others. We also formulated a joint text in which we instructed the government to find some money and get started quickly. Of course, we had hoped that the government would have set aside some funds in their financial legislation, but they did not. That is why I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur: what is the SF going into the negotiations with now when it comes to financial law negotiations in relation to cleaning up after generational pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144210	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to say that this is a fun class we have here today. And I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin to stay ready for the next round of questions, and I don't see him, there he is. Thank you. Then I was the one who wasn't paying attention. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144228	In the SF we held our summer group press meeting at polite 42 and we did so, of course, because it is about generations fighting to clean up a contaminated site. Back in the 1950s and 1960s Cheminova supplied very much poison on that site. Of course, the state must help to clean it up. It is not only Cheminova who has put poison there, but it is actually the state that ended up driving poison out on the ground, and therefore we have a joint obligation there. And we also have to acknowledge in relation to these generational pollutions, that is, it is in the word "that many generations have missed their visiting time in terms of cleaning up. And, of course, we have to do that. We have made a very clear proposal to the Finance Act: we want 250 million to be set aside. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. There are more than 19,000 contaminated sites in Denmark, and they also need to be cleaned up. Those are more the private reasons, but the big ones are the ones for which we find it difficult to find money, and the SF offers that for the negotiations, and then we have to see how the government reacts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144340	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144341	Thank you. It is the case that we in the Left have tabled a motion for a resolution which will shortly be debated here in the Parliamentary Assembly and which calls for the allocation of 250 million. kr. That is why I think it should be quite simple for the SF's rapporteur on the platform today so as to nod yes to the fact that the SF will also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left in this Chamber. Could I get a confirmation of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144411	Oh, how I wish the Left had made that proposal before the elections, because then I would have said that, of course, we are voting in favour of it. After all, the Left has had the opportunity for many years to sit on the government to make that proposal, and the SF had gladly voted in favour. But I also know that the Left knows what it's like to be a government party or a support party, and of course I do not want to advance the financial law negotiations. We think the intention behind the proposal is right, but we also need to find the money, which is why we are taking it in the budget negotiations. But surely the SF can help the Left by ensuring that we get it through in the budget negotiations, because there is no doubt that we need to clean it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144447	Well, I guess it's no surprise that it's Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144451	Thank you to the President and thank you to Pia Olsen Dyhr for a very personal speech and for replying sincerely. But we do not have the SF's opinion on cultural education. There was nothing about that in the speech. In Denmark, we have distributed our decision-making power to three places: the State, civil society and companies. And during the corona crisis it is actually the case that a large part of that decision-making power has been taken back to the state, but it has to go the other way again. I guess we're agreed on that. So how will the SF further strengthen civil society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144542	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144543	I do not believe that the role of civil society in general in our society should be underestimated. It is one of the places where we catch each other; it may be at the football club, it may be in my local church choir, and it could be many other places. And there is no doubt that we need to strengthen civil society again. I hope that part of it will be that we will soon be able to lift the restrictions so that people can meet, but that depends on whether we still have a very dangerous disease among us. I do not want to neglect it, and I think we have to get on the other side before we say that now we can just do everything we usually do. Then I cannot find out whether the rapporteur is asking me whether I want to find some money or ask what it is that should be done especially for cultural education, but I do agree that cultural education is important. I also think it is important that all decision-making power lies not in the state but also in the municipalities and the local community. That is why I also think that the proposal made by the Prime Minister in his opening speech to put seven municipalities on the map to cultivate each of their welfare areas without rules and legislation is a refreshing, delightful and imaginative idea, which I think means that we will see professionalism flourish. But I am not quite sure if I have answered the question. It is not of bad will, but I am not sure what exactly the question was.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144652	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144653	After all, the question was about civil society and there was no answer to it. I can confirm that. But I had hoped that Pia Olesen Dyhr would have mentioned the children because the children were a large part of the rapporteur's speech, and yes, cultural education starts with the children but enough about it. The second question I have is: does SF have a plan for how this culture can be started again? It's actually suffering right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144727	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144729	I think that when we get on the other side of Corona, a lot of different things have to happen. One of the things SF has been pushing for, both in the municipalities, but as we are working for in here, has been this leisure pass, i.e. that you as exposed child and exposed young people have the opportunity to come to football, or it can be for music or other, even if your parents do not have the economy for it. It is part of being culturally formed, that is, that you actually have the opportunity to go to the piano, even if your parents cannot afford to pay the music school. And that's one of the things we'd like to look at. Now I hope that I answered the rapporteur's question, otherwise the rapporteur will have to come to me afterwards and poke me on the shoulder or whatever you have to do in coronatides.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144808	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144810	Thank you. I will return to generational pollution. I live in the municipality of Lemvig, which has Cheminova lying down. We now know that a scale experiment has been carried out to clean up the poison at polite 42. The region is ready. The region has announced that they are simply waiting for us here from Christiansborg to report on how much money we will put into the project. I have noticed that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and SF were kind enough to hold a summer group meeting and press conference in my municipality and even at courtesy 42. What I want to ask you about right here is: I must be able to count on the press conference and the announcement in Lemvig Municipality and in courtesy 42 that SF will ensure that we have the necessary millions in this budget law that we are facing in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008144937	Yes, the Conservatives and the Left can count on the SF to go to the negotiating table with the Ministry of Finance. This is one of our main demands for the Finance Act. I'm getting a little bit dicked because it's not that long ago that the Conservatives and the Left sat in government where you had the opportunity to do something about this and didn't do it. But I would like to take it on my cape, because it has been SF's business throughout history to fight for improvements on e.g.. polite 42, back when Margrete Auken helped put it on the map with the first studies together with Arv-Aage and later with his son Bjarne and the fight on. We are happy to do so again, but I would appreciate it if the bourgeois people also supported it when the bourgeois themselves are in government and not only when you are in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145024	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145025	Well, thank you for your answer, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. I would like to give the SF and the President the roses once the Finance Act has been adopted and we have had the millions set aside to get on with cleaning up at Cheminova. This is urgently needed, especially for those who, also in the municipality of Lemvig, say that it will never happen; that it will continue to be talk. With the indictment that the SF has had, also in connection with the summer group meeting, I hope that in these debates Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr will put her foot in the door and say that we must have solved generational pollution and that we start at polite 42.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145118	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145120	Yes, sir. Orla Hav count on it. It is a key requirement and I will be very difficult to deal with the Minister of Finance in terms of delivering on generational pollution. In fact, I have no doubt that the Minister for Finance is aware of this. We also took it to the negotiations last time when we negotiated finance law. There we had a number of other proposals, including: I would also like to mention minimum standards where we had been very square. And you have to say that sometimes when you're square. We have delivered minimum standards in Denmark. We need to do more in the field of children. Now the next step is to fix the generational pollution. We have a common obligation to do so, so yes, I will be a little troublesome about that, said in West Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145159	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby and not Mr. Orla Sea (Pia Olsen Dyhr No Sorry!Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF. We have to move forward in the rapporteur's round, and now it is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008145217	Thank you for that, President. Sometimes you face crucial choices, choices that are going to lay track in the future and define what you stand for. This applies both personally and politically. The political autumn in which we are now entering is in many ways defining our common future, both nationally and internationally. We are in the middle of four major crises: a health crisis, an economic crisis, a biodiversity crisis and a climate crisis. And we know the song every time we face a crisis: there is a need for crisis-consciousness, we have to tighten our belts, we have to show moderation, we need restraint. This usually means that those who have the least must hold the hardest for. But that's not how it's supposed to be this time. However, there is a certain amount of truth in it, because restraint must be exercised. Fossil fuels must be subject to restraint, with over-consumption, with restraint with pesticides, with privatisations and with top tax incentives. For the way out of the crisis goes through a green transition and a strong community. When I get old...... that's how a Gnags song sounds, where the next strophe sounds: I'll sit on a bench. After watching TV 2's documentary about the care of the elderly, it should perhaps be rewritten to • I'll be hanging on a lift. I think it cut everyone's heart to see what the conditions are in some places in our care for the Subsequently, the solutions were queuing. More supervision, more privatisation, fire the staff, it especially sounded from the right. But this isn't a problem we can just fire ourselves out of or restructure ourselves out of. This is basically about ensuring that there is time for care, knowledge of the individual and professional knowledge. So when Grete's in bed at the care center and doesn't want to get up, you know who hired her so well that you know you have to worry. You have time to find out what's wrong. You've spoken to the relatives, and you have the opportunity to spar with your colleagues the next time you meet. An elderly care with dignity and respect will only be provided if we invest in it. That is why Enhedslisten requires 2,000 more staff in the care of the elderly when we are about to negotiate finance law. For there is a need to invest in our common welfare. Last year's Finance Act secured a boost to psychiatry, to day care institutions and to schools. Through the understanding paper, we have ensured that at least money comes with when there are more children, more patients and more elderly people who need welfare. That in itself is a huge step in relation to the cuts that have been made over the past many years. But, of course, it's not enough that we just keep our skin on our noses. There is a need for concrete welfare improvements that can be felt in the care of the elderly, in the day institutions, in schools, in hospitals, in the rooms. The welfare must be there for us no matter where we are in life. Earlier this year, important evidence of racism came to light. Right now there is an important dispute with the way women are treated. Courageous women have come forward and have told of horrifying experiences in a wide range of industries. And I myself know, when I talk to my daughter and her friends, that degrading and cross-border treatment for them has almost become a condition. Being pulled away when you're out on the dance floor and dancing, always go two together not to fear being raped, putting up with slummy remarks and advances in the workplace, we should not accept. All of us must help to put an end to the abuses and to put them in place wherever we encounter them. It is a shared responsibility, because there is no one in our society who should experience that violations due to gender, skin color, religion or sexuality are a condition. I would like to use this opportunity today to send a great deal of thanks to all the people and movements who stand up and take this showdown: you deserve a huge amount of respect. The Corona crisis has given our society great challenges, but it has also shown how we can adapt society quickly. The Prime Minister himself mentioned this in his speech last Tuesday. We need that learning to a great extent when we have to deal with the climate crisis because it is urgent. We cannot just ask the planet to take a break with climate change, while we manage the covid-19 and the economic crisis. Fortunately, there is no contradiction between taking one thing or another seriously. The green transition means a need for massive investment in new technologies and in new climate measures. It can create jobs in both the private and the public sectors for the benefit of those who have lost their jobs, but it requires action now and there is a great deal we need to do. We need energy from real renewable sources such as sun, wind and geothermal energy. We need to get petrol and diesel cars off the roads. They must be exchanged for public transport, bicycles and also electric cars, especially in rural areas where public transport does not cover. In the Enhedslisten, we will make it forbidden to sell new petrol and diesel cars from 2025 and make it much cheaper to replace the old car with an electric car so that it is not only the richest who get a real alternative and so everyday life can still hang together. We must make more agricultural land for free nature for the benefit of climate, biodiversity and the environment. We must make pollution expensive for those who earn and pollute the most, because there is a close link between those who own the greatest wealth and those who stand for the largest CO2 That is why it is deeply unfair if people with small incomes are to suffer the greatest deprivation of the green transition, and it is an insult to ordinary people to say that the green transition must be financed by labour supply reforms, which are about cutting the social security net and welfare, especially if you want to give back the money from climate taxes to the largest companies and the largest executives in terms of discounts on corporation tax. Because even if we all have to do something, and that is what we have to do, it is those who live in the first class with high private consumption, many flights and expensive cars, and those companies who make a great deal of money from polluting, who have to make by far the biggest contribution. If we do not take the major decisions now, we simply do not reach the 70%. in 2030. New technology is important, but it alone isn't coming to save us. concrete action needs to be taken, which already makes it clear that we will reach the 70-percent target by 2030. The last six months have only made the need even more acute. This is the time to embark on a socially fair green transition. The way out of the crisis is red and green. This applies both nationally and internationally, and this must, of course, be reflected in the negotiations on the climate action plans and the Finance Act. The Enhedslisten is ready for this, and it will be the government's choice if it is also the way they want to go, and therefore this will be a crucial autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150042	Thank you. Then there are three entries for the moment, and the first one I shall give the floor is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150047	Thanks to Enhedslisten for the speech. There were many good issues that were raised, not least the last of them here about the green transition and all the efforts that need to be made there. After all, Enhedslisten is now a parliamentary basis for the government and thus also part of the understanding paper that has been written in the past, where various points are also made about the environment and the green transition. For example: There was a discussion before between Mrs Anni Matthiesen and SF's rapporteur on generational pollutions that has not really been put off on the Finance Act for that. There was also a point about a nature and biodiversity package that has now been postponed in a few rounds. And that's how there are other things. So, overall, I would like to ask: how does the Enhedslist view what has been delivered for the time being by the government on the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150142	But it is clear that if we look at it in isolation, we do not think it is ambitious enough. And that is also why we are pushing for this, both in relation to the green transition, but also in relation to the environment and biodiversity, and also in relation to generational pollution. That is why we are going to have some of the focus in the budget negotiations. But it is clear that the things outlined in the paper of understanding are not something we solve at once; it is something that has to be solved during this reign, and it is also a task that we naturally take on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150208	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150209	I think that is fair enough, so you have to try to solve it, but you have to sort of start somewhere. Compared to e.g. The generational pollution must, as it were, be passed on to the ramp, and there is not really any part of it in the financial bill. We then have on our side to press for us to be in the opposition, so we can use the means we have just tabled a motion for a resolution. So I also hope and expect to get the support of the Enhedslisten to press for the resolution in which we say that we would like to start already in 2021 by 250 million. kr. That is why I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten agrees with this and whether we can therefore expect the Enhedslisten to support that resolution when it is dealt with here later in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150248	Sir. Dolphin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150249	Now I am very grateful that this has also become a priority issue for the Left. But there is a reason why it is called generational pollution, and that is, of course, that it is not something that has arisen here in the last few years. This is something that has been going on for a long time, and I would have liked the Left perhaps to have had the same level of ambition when they were actually sitting with the government and having the opportunity to do something about it. However, I would like to stress that this is, of course, a priority and it will also be something that we will be doing something about. In this way, it can be said that I assume that, at least during this period of government, there will be action behind the words "as opposed to previous governments."
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150322	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150323	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now there are many places where Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti look at things quite differently, so I heard in the rapporteur's speech whether there was anything where we could find a common place. After all, I was very, very pleased that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has chosen to give priority to the area of the elderly in the course of the autumn's financial law negotiations. I also understand from what has been said before today that this is one of the key requirements of the Finance Act. So I would like to hear a little more about these 2,000 more employees in the care of the elderly, and how to imagine that they are going to get into the real world and actually give a boost, i.e. how to secure it, and also whether it's something you want to stand firm on in these financial negotiations, or whether it's the thing about climbing up the tree and just as quietly coming down as the negotiations run loose. I think we should have a little more of that in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150422	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150423	I would now like to start by signing off on the issue of the elderly, because it is true that we have a common agenda there, and that is what we have had in the psychiatry area too. However, if it is about the elderly and the way in which we imagine the funds to be put into practice, it is by employing, on the one hand, 500 domestic assistants to make primarily a hygiene effort at the care centres, and, on the other hand, 1 500 will be employed initially as unskilled workers, because we have a major problem with the fact that we do not have sufficient skilled workers in the care centres. So 1 500 unskilled people are employed, who can go in and replace 1 500 of those who are already employed, who can then take an education for either sosu-helper or sosu-assistant. So it is an opportunity to raise the entire level of education and, at the same time, to recruit more staff into the care of the elderly. Now I have heard the Danish People's Party talk about minimum standards also in the area of the elderly, and there we are just facing the challenge that we do not have sufficient trained labour, and that is why we have to start somewhere. That is what we recommend here with our demands on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150534	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150536	But it is absolutely true that there is a shortage of labour. It can also be said that with the sad stories we have witnessed over the summer, there is a risk that it scares young people from entering and becoming employees in the care of the elderly. What is really my interest here is just to be sure that it is going to happen. After all, we do not have the decisive mandates for a financial bill debate, as we have done in the past, and where we could rightly be kept on fire down here in an opening debate, in relation to whether or not we could count on what has been said. Now it is our job to say to Enhedslisten, who are the ones who are likely to come in and have to hand in decisive mandates in these negotiations whether Enhedslisten will stand firm. Because I really think I'll be worth keeping an eye on that, because we need a boost in our care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150625	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150626	Well, I guess I'll just be able to see that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has a considerably lighter job than we did when we were to hold the Danish People's Party firmly. If we take the finance negotiations last time, we raised the demand for a boost to psychiatry, and we got that. If we take the financial law negotiations this time, it is clear that it is a key requirement that we take into the financial law negotiations to ensure a boost to care for the elderly. So, of course, we will fight hard for that. After all, we have also helped to ensure that demography is covered, including through the economic agreements that have been made, in contrast to what it was like under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150702	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150704	Thank you. In fact, before the summer break, we were a broad political majority, which actually pushed the government to agree that we should at least embark on a green tax reform. So I am very pleased about that; we can get a uniform CO2 I actually assume that is also Enhedslisten's policy. But what I am a little busy is how we make it happen: that we can actually implement it. And that may require a willingness to compromise as well. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: if a green tax reform is now being carried out which, in isolation, may perhaps increase inequality, but then takes other initiatives that promote more equality, will the Enhedslisten be involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150757	I do not quite know why initiatives should be taken to increase inequality. Because what is absolutely crucial to us is that when we make a green transition, it is also socially balanced. And there can be something like making a green tax reform, where you also get a CO2 and it's important that the CO2 2 because I think we have to be very careful, in relation to the whole green transition, that we don't create such a picture that it's going to increase inequality. Because it does not have to be, and therefore there is no reason for us to breathe into that view. We can easily make a green transition, which is also socially balanced. And that is certainly what we are going to enter into the negotiations on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150852	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150853	Well, I agree with that, and that is what I asked. And then you can take some other initiatives. I hear that too is what Enhedslisten wants, in isolation; that is, because something like that can be a little technical. And then maybe it's the Gini coefficient that you measure that, in isolation, increases the inequality, because we have to find 90 mandates that want to effect this green tax reform; make it happen. Will the Enhedslisten, with some other initiatives in particular, stand up for this? And is that satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150924	So it is clear: if it is simultaneous initiatives that are being used to compensate for what is going to be in a green tax reform. What matters is that we are not going to increase inequality overall. And that is also what appears from the understanding paper. But I do not see any reason why we should start creating the idea that a green tax reform could increase inequality too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150948	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008150950	Thank you. And thanks for a really, really good speech. I noted that the rapporteur spoke a great deal about women and the debate that has been going on on methodological issues, and that is something I also support up to 100%. The rapporteur said that this should not become a condition. But negative social control is a condition in some environments and it is a major problem which has serious consequences for the individual's potential for development. The negative social control comes among other things. in the face of the over-representation in crisis centres of ethnic minority women who have been subjected to violence, but we can also observe it in our educational institutions or in the selection of partners in some of these ethnic minority environments. More and more people are coming forward and telling about their lives with negative social control. Last time it was about a young woman who faced the choice between either getting her freedom or keeping her children. Against this background, the SF has proposed making negative social control punishable. I want to know if Enhedslisten can support our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151113	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151114	I fully agree that negative social control is a major problem and that it must be combated and that it exists in many environments, in many cultures and also in religious cultures. And it is clear that we must fight it, and it is, of course, about combating it in concrete terms where it is, and thus also understanding what the background is. That is also why we have helped to get money from the Finance Act, both in terms of getting more crisis centre places, in terms of ensuring that safehouses are set up and in terms of ensuring that proper advice can be offered to young people who are actually affected by it. I believe that this is where priority should be given to efforts. And so it is the case that psychological violence is a criminal offence today, and that is why there is a possibility of punishing it, but it is clear that now we have to read the concrete proposal from the SF, and then we are, of course, ready to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151216	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151217	Thank you. As the rapporteur also says, the Enhedslisten has agreed that psychological violence must also be punishable, but negative social control is not a criminal offence and is, in fact, just as serious if not more than psychological violence. I would therefore like to ask whether the Enhedslisten does not consider that it is a good democratic and socialist basic principle that the rights of the individual are always above religious dogmas, which in many cases corrupt the freedom of the individual. I would also like to ask: what will the Enhedslisten do to ensure that negative social control is perceived as psychological violence, as it really is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151309	I can say that I fully agree with what Mrs Halime Oguz says. Where I just need to see the concrete form of the proposal, it is precisely in relation to where we are actually going in and separating negative social control from psychological violence. But it is clear that this is something we are completely open to looking at. What is at least as important in this discussion is also to ensure that we are given sufficient help to the young people affected by it, in other words to ensure that there are safehouses, to ensure that there are shelters and to avoid some being maintained in relationships because of economic conditions. There are a lot of things we need to do in relation to this, so that is not something we alone solve by making negative social control punishable. However, we are quite open to looking at the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151401	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151404	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech. I understand that Enhedslisten believes that the increase in retirement age should stop at 68 years. I'm sorry if I haven't gotten it right, but that's my understanding. It'll cost 59 billion. kr., because fortunately we are getting older and older, and we are also healthier and healthier for a longer time, and that is only a joy for every human being. However, if you are to have a retirement age of 68 years, which costs 59 billion. kr., where will that funding come from? I fully understand that we are some who have helped create a room for manoeuvre that Enhedslisten does not keep too fine to use the conditions of democracy, but this is going to be of great importance. And if you want a welfare society that can develop, as I understand it, the money must come from somewhere, and if they are not allowed to come from here, where are they to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151510	That's an interesting assumption, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen is doing something about the fact that if you just raise the retirement age, people just keep working and there's also going to be work for them. What is the situation of the bricklayer who has been working for 45 years, even longer, more than 50 years, and is 72 years old and has to continue to go to work, or for the HK who has been on his office job and is gradually mentally worn out, or for the educator who is in the day care institution? You make an assumption that people can just do it and that they just keep doing it. But that is not the reality, and that is why I think it is a little bit economically irresponsible to base the way in which we should finance our welfare societies in the future on such an uncertain assumption. So I really think that instead we should look at reality and see how we can actually ensure that people can stay on the labour market any longer, how we can ensure that people do not get worn down and how we can ensure that we have sufficient staff, that people do not get worn down or go down with stress.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151620	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151621	When my grandmother was 60 and walked around in spinlon dresses, she was old, that is, she was. A 60-year-old today isn't old. Society is changing, and we can do much more today, and we are healthier and healthier. If I then buy the premise and say: okay, you can't work anymore, why do you have to keep going, and you have to leave when you're 68. This is irresponsible, because we cannot avoid getting more money in our society and spending more money at the same time. The Enhedslisten must at some point make a choice whether to cut down some special places. You can't both spend more money and avoid more money coming in. Then we simply have to say where that money will come from. I heard the listing of a lot of challenges, but where should the money come from? We can ideologically have different opinions about that, but they have to come from somewhere, I suppose.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151719	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151721	But there we are fortunate enough that we have had a bourgeois government which has taught us how to act economically irresponsiblely and to give tax relief. Under the previous government tax relief was granted for over 20 billion. kr. Every year, which we are paying for now, and if we look over the last 20 years, it is 50 billion. kr. we pay tax every year. So there is advice, and there is also money for people to be allowed to have a reasonable withdrawal from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151751	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151755	Well, well, well. The rapporteur mentioned a little in his speech that the rich should be involved in paying the climate bill, and Enhedslisten has also played out that taxes should be increased, I think it was by 12 billion. kr., for the richest Danes, so there can be afford for the green transition. The CEPOS has then calculated this and they have found that the marginal tax, i.e. the tax rate for the richest Danes, is 70%. on the last earned crown with Enhedslisten's policy... a top tax of 70%. for the richest, so that by 2030 you can achieve this goal of 70% CO2 and that made me think of Per Clausen's statement 10 years ago that in 20 years the socialist revolution would be here in Denmark. It may be that he predicted that we should reach a 70-percent target and that to that one should have a top tax of 70 per cent. For the richest, but this thing with a top tax of 70%. Because the richest are actually quite interesting. Why stop there anyway? Well, where does Enhedslisten think the border goes? Could you also increase the top tax for the richest in Denmark to 75 or 80%?? Or is 70%. a level where you think it's naughty to increase it even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151900	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008151902	Now we do not need to go 20 years ahead to say that socialist society has been implemented with a marginal tax rate of 70. There, sir. Alex Vanopslagh sort of just go 20 years back in time to e.g. Poul Schlüter's reign, when I think the marginal tax was 72%. I don't know if what was then is, sir. Alex Vanopslagh considers the socialist paradise. I don't. It is just to put a little proportion in relation to this, because it is clear that when we have had a government that has given massive tax relief to the richest, and we are facing a challenge where we can see that we must both invest in green conversion and keep our hands under a well-being • the welfare that has carried us through a financial crisis and is now carrying us through a corona crisis • yes, then there are some who will have to pay, and it is of course those with the economically widest shoulders. But to say that it should be the jealous socialism, I think, is to draw it quite a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152003	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152004	Well, in order to achieve a little consensus, I would say that I agree with the rapporteur that if we are to find the jealous socialism, we have to go back to the past, because there are no wise people who insist that there should be a socialist society. All the countries that have tried socialism get rid of it afterwards because they know it is to the detriment of society. But the question is: and there's a reason why we've gone away from the top 70% tax. in Denmark: Enhedslisten has a fundamental or ideological problem with the fact that the tax was even higher, or is 70%. What you think is the appropriate level for the richest in Denmark? That is actually just what I would like to hear, i.e. whether Enhedslisten is working for the tax on the last earned crown for those who earn the most in Denmark, to be even higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152043	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152044	Well now, honey isn't that kind of thing where we say that we just want more of that that just has to be turned up. What is crucial is that we have a society in which we have some expenditure that we have to finance. Then we can choose to say that we do that together. That's what we call tax. And that's where we can say that we set it up progressively, so that those who have the most will also contribute the most, or we can say that we need more user charges. After all, people are free to what kind of social model they want. I know which one I want, but that doesn't mean that I just think it's cooler that the tax will be set at 89 percent if I don't have anything to spend the money on. But if we decide together that we want to spend this money on, well, that's where we put the level. That is what democracy is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152128	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152138	Thanks for the speech. In New Citizens we are working for the Danes to have the opportunity to vote out of the EU. We and the rapporteur's party are deeply divided, but perhaps here is an area where we can find a little consensus. My colleague, Mrs Pernille Vermund, asked about this in the closing debate on 22 June, but was not given an answer, so I would like to know whether Enhedslisten still wants Denmark to resign from the EU • whether the Enhedslisten believes that the Danes should have the opportunity to vote on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152209	Sir. Dolphin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152211	The Enhedslisten is in favour of strong international cooperation, including binding international cooperation. We also have a representative sitting down in the European Parliament now who is constantly working to draw the European Union in a more green and solidarity direction, to fight tax havens, etc. However, it is clear that there are mechanisms in the very construction of the European Union which we consider to be fundamentally problematic, in other words, that it can limit the demands we can make on the climate and on the labour market, and which impose some major restrictions on how we can organise our society, including economic policy. But it is clear that the process we have seen in connection with brexit, I do not think anyone wants to repeat. So to the extent that we are going to hold a referendum, it is dependent on us also having a clear alternative model of what our relationship with the European Union should then be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152315	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152316	Thank you for your answer. It sounds as if Enhedslisten is wobbling a little in the question, and that Enhedslisten does not think that the Danes should have the opportunity to vote in the near future; so there we do not agree either. However, I would like to know if the rapporteur could lift a bit of the veil about what Enhedslisten means when talking about alternatives. What alternative or alternatives to the EU for Enhedslisten would be interesting if Denmark were not in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152347	Sir. Dolphin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152348	Well, now I don't quite know from where, sir. Peter Seier Christensen took the view that this meant that we did not want a referendum. I just think that what is crucial is that we should ensure that it is absolutely clear to the public what alternatives there are, what options there are. Because what we saw with regard to brexit was that we were thrown into a huge chaos, both nationally and internationally, and therefore it is crucial that we have clear alternatives, that is, what negotiated solutions can be made. And there are different models. There may be an association that Norway or Switzerland has, i.e. the EEA, but the crucial thing is that we describe the models and that is what the people can then decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152430	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152432	Thank you. And thank you for a good first rapporteur speech on the opening debate. I have noticed that Enhedslisten is also really tired of the government hesitating to get started on these CO2 and I have also noticed that Mrs Pernille Skipper has actually been out saying that the time when you would not overthrow a social democratic government is over. And we also approve of this if it is a matter of climate change. The only thing that the proposals put forward by the alternative of green proposals, for which the Enhedslisten has not voted, were the proposal for the meat levy. Was that a flicker? Should we not have started at the time to make a meat levy so that we could already have started to reduce meat consumption some time ago and thus start by reducing CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152532	But now it can be said that the challenge is that if you put the levy in isolation on meat, we will get into the problem of how socially just it is, because then that means that the single mother will pay, let's say 17 kroner. in tax for 1 kg father, and the family who buys a beef tenderloin will also pay 17 DKK. in tax. So there is a built-in bias in it, and therefore our proposal has been that instead of adding a CO2 and then we can help to use some of the proceeds from it to convert to a smaller CO2 For the intention that we should eat less meat, that we should have reduced meat consumption both nationally and internationally, we are in complete agreement with that, but the question is just how we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152625	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152627	Yes, but I do not actually accept that answer, because we had written a social compensation into the proposal I had written the social compensation myself into that resolution. The Enhedslisten has said that many times, but that is not true, because we had brought it with us. My second question concerns the fact that, in relation to what we have committed ourselves to in the Paris Agreement, we have to pay 100 billion. kr., i.e. the rich countries, in climate aid to those who are the most climate-vulnerable in the world. The government's only budgeted half of it. Will Enhedslisten try to help pressure the government to make sure that we deliver the 5 billion. kr. in new resources in climate aid, to which we have committed ourselves, and which, moreover, is also a fair and fair part of the rich countries' overall climate aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152715	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152717	Well, I fully agree that we have an obligation to do so and, as I remember, I also believe that, in the last financial agreement, we already received some additional funding for climate aid. And that's definitely something we're bringing back with us. After all, it is both a question of getting more money and also ensuring that there is not going to be the greenwashing of aid funds, but that, if they are to be used as climate aid, it must be something that both reduces inequality and, at the same time, helps to improve climate action. So we are in complete agreement there, and that will also be one of the things we will be pushing for in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152751	Sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152753	Thank you. I understand that Enhedslisten is beginning to stagger slightly in relation to the meat levy. Otherwise, it has been the case in the past that there were no limits at all to what taxes the Enhedslisten could use when there was an economic challenge. It was almost a rooftop self-table. So we can say, and the rapporteur almost delivered the answer himself just before • that if Enhedslisten had power as they have been watching, one would just put up all the wishes and they cost it and that, and then one would sort of just scratch it all in. So my question is: is there perhaps, apart from the meat levy, any taxes, taxes, user charges or anything else that does not exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152839	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152840	Yes, indeed there is. We work hard to get, for example. Such a thing as dental treatment done free of charge, so it is something we pay over tax, and I would say that we also have no desire to raise the tax on the lowest income. On the contrary, we want to help raise the tax on the highest income while at the same time relaxing at the bottom, also because that is actually what stimulates the economy best in relation to domestic consumption. 2 We will also have to do this in the climate action plans that come in the agricultural sector here afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152926	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008152927	Thank you. Then I understand that there are two or three taxes that are exempt. Otherwise it holds the thesis in Enhedslisten's world that you put up all your wishes, and then the money just has to be scratched in. Then there are just two or three taxes that are exempt. So the question is whether taxes to get enough money into welfare regardless of the consequences, in terms of employment, economy and gross domestic product at all, can really just go up indefinitely in Enhedslisten's optics. Or is there some upper ceiling for how high up Enhedslisten will go there? Are you even looking at the consequences before you say: just scratch the money in and screw the handle?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153008	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153009	I don't know what kind of logic that is, sir. Erling Bonnesen uses when he has to conclude on what I'm saying. We usually have the principle that we want to finance the proposals we make, and it is clear that we are looking at how we can secure socially fair funding. We would also very much like to be involved in investing in what can bring us through this crisis. This is among other things. the green conversion, that is to say to invest in a production that is less CO2 It is about creating jobs. It is also about creating jobs in welfare, which is why we need to find funding, and we do so, among other things. By increasing taxes for those who have the most in advance and as Mr. Erling Bonnesen has helped to provide tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153050	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153053	Thank you very much. For us in Conservatives, safety and security in the Danish streets are a top priority. The reality is, unfortunately, that a considerable proportion of those who commit crime in this country are foreign nationals. If there is one thing that criminal foreigners fear, it is the risk of never being able to acquire Danish citizenship. Today the rules are reckless: You can be in prison for as long as a year and still away after a waiting period get the Danish passport. We Conservatives have therefore proposed that criminal foreigners who have been sentenced to prison should never be able to obtain Danish passports. This will increase security in Denmark. Is this something that Enhedslisten will support us in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153139	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153141	It is simply nonsense that it will increase security in Denmark. Fortunately, both juvenile delinquency and, in fact, juvenile delinquency in heavily burdened residential areas are decreasing. The very idea of excluding someone from being able to obtain Danish citizenship simply because of one criminal act seems absurd to me. Well, I don't know if sir. Marcus Knuth would then find the same justice in saying that those who have committed crime and who are Danes and have acquired citizenship at birth should also be deprived of citizenship, or what kind of thinking it is. For it is perfectly reasonable and a principle of the rule of law that you may be punished, but that you should not be punished for life. Or at least that's how it's been in Danish legal tradition. You can commit a crime, and then you get a punishment, and then you can have a career in relation to citizenship, but it doesn't have to be for life. I think that is quite far-reaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153239	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153241	It's crazy that Enhedslisten is standing here saying that we don't want to give Danish citizenship to criminals will have no effect. That's insane. If I may then turn the question and ask Enhedslisten whether there is an upper limit to how violent crime one may have committed, how many years of imprisonment one must have been sitting, in order not to be able to obtain Danish passports. For us, it's zero. For Enhedslisten it is 5 years or 10 years? So, how many years of prison does Enhedslisten want you to have to have in order not to be able to get a Danish passport?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153314	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153315	Now it is the case-law of Denmark that there must be some proportionality, and that idea that if you have committed something that triggers a two-year sentence, then you are excluded for life from acquiring citizenship, I think is absolutely absurd. I can't understand what the context would be. I have seen examples of young people who have committed something really stupid and foolish in their very young years, which, in fact, today excludes them from becoming Danish citizens, even though they are well integrated, even though they have work and they are committed in Danish society. Because they have committed one stupidity when they were minors, this means that they cannot obtain Danish citizenship. I simply think that is unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153403	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin of the Left who's not here. Yeah, this time I didn't dare say I couldn't see him. We'll tuck Mr. Knox in. Morten Dahlin in the back of the queue, and then it will be instead of Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153422	Thank you. I was actually going to apologize for calling the Enhedslisten's draft Finance Bill a piece of old Communist thought. That is probably because there have been a few years when we have been a little tired of being called neoliberals in the Radical Left when we are now social liberals. We think it's important to keep the different categories apart. But I really believe that I have come to the conclusion that I am holding on to it, because I really think that the review of the fiscal logic of Enhedslisten's economic theory here shows that this is a very good thing. But there are some things that you cannot pay for, even though the Enhedslisten has added to this in their draft financial legislation, and that is the fact that we lack sosus, educators and teachers for thousands, and if you want to limit the retirement age to 68 years, you also add thousands. So my question to Enhedslisten is: How are we going to find all these hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153520	Part of this we are already doing with our financial bill by ensuring that we get some unskilled people in and give them an education. But in addition to that, it is all about the fact that, for example, we are dealing with the problem. ensure the right to move from part-time to full-time. It's about securing good pay and employment conditions that make it attractive to get to work in those subjects. After all, we have proposed that 5 billion be set aside in the past. kr. to an equal pay or low pay pool which can be used in public contracts which can help raise the wage level. Because when you're out asking about it in the welfare professions, the challenge, whether it's nurses, sosus or educators, is that when they come out and experience reality out there, it's so pressured that many of them are fleeing the profession again, because they just can't stand it. Therefore, if we are to meet the challenge that I agree with us in terms of ensuring more hands to welfare, then we also need to ensure that they get better pay and employment conditions, that they have more tolerable conditions to work under, and that we have reduced both wear and stress so that sick leave is also reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153631	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153633	After all, we have all worked on this type of reform to ensure the right to move from part-time to full-time and to activate the unemployed, etc. Perhaps it might be time to look for some other solutions instead of continuing to repeat the same old slogans about how to solve this. Therefore, the follow-up question must be: what about foreign labour? Could Enhedslisten not be interested in looking that way when the warm hands are to be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153710	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153711	Now I do not know what old solutions are being referred to. We propose, for example: in our draft budget, that 1,500 should be brought in, which in concrete terms contributes to a boost in education. We could, for example. also provide an internship guarantee so that we could ensure that the young people who stand and want training really get one within the skilled jobs that we are going to lack hands on. We could also ensure that they could get a real wage increase, that we could reduce sick leave, that we could reduce wear and tear by ensuring that they have decent working conditions, because we have not done so. And if the answer is simply to pull in foreign labour and give them the same poor working conditions, then it will not be something we will be supporting. We would rather be involved in raising the level so as to ensure that there are better terms and conditions of employment and that we can thus help recruit and maintain employees in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153810	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153812	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The government is proposing a large number of savings in the digital field in their financial legislation. One of the areas where this is going the hardest is in relation to the broadband pool, which is proposed to completely loop, despite the fact that in the vicinity of 100,000 addresses still do not have a proper internet connection. The Minister himself has also replied that with the funds we know today, there is no prospect that about 30,000 of these citizens will have a proper Internet connection without us doing anything. So I want to know if Enhedslisten agrees with the government that there's room for you to loop the broadband pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153853-2	No, we're not. And you can say that this is a good example of how wrong things can be when you liberalise an area, because missing Internet connections in many rural areas is a direct consequence of the fact that for some of the private providers it has not paid to roll it out completely. It's better to make 5G in the big city before we get 2G or 3G for that matter out in rural areas. So we have also proposed that funds should be set aside for broadband, including in rural areas, so that we can ensure that digitalisation also comes out where it is needed, because we have a desire to be able to maintain the possibility of also living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153939	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008153940	I'm glad to hear that. I would just like to remind Enhedslisten that we are, in fact, one of the most advanced countries in terms of Internet connection across the country, precisely because we have primarily chosen a market-based approach, but there are some areas that do not agree with that approach. Then I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten agrees with the Prime Minister that the government is ambitious in the digital field, or whether Enhedslisten also has difficulty in recognizing the PM's interpretation of the world situation in the digital field in relation to the government's financial law proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154016	There are very few areas where I would say that the government is so ambitious. I can say that it is better than the previous government. That is not very ambitious either, but it is. And that is why we will continue to press for us to become more ambitious, also in terms of digitalisation, so as to ensure that broadband also reaches rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154037	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154041	Yes, it will be some exciting financial law negotiations like this with the Enhedslisten and the Radicals. But I would really like to follow up on Marcus Knuth's question. For, as I understood the rapporteur, the rapporteur replied that criminal foreigners should continue to be able to obtain Danish passports if correctly understood. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is a difference in the degree of crime. The rapporteur said that if you had made a small mistake, a single mistake, it should not cost you the opportunity to get a Danish passport. But what if you're a terrorist? Should you still be able to get Danish passports in the eyes of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154122	Now it is the case that if you have been convicted after the terrorist paragraph, you can actually be deprived of Danish citizenship. I just think, when we discuss citizenship, that we always end up in those extremes: what if? I think it is more serious that we have a large group of citizens who live here in Denmark who have been legally resident and have had it for several years, but who still find it difficult to obtain citizenship because we have established such rigid rules that it is almost impossible for them. I think we should have a democratic obligation to ensure that the demands we make in order to obtain citizenship were far more reasonable. I do not mind that there is a requirement that one should be able to do oneself in an understandable Danish, or that one should go through a course in Danish social relations and democracy. I think that makes sense. But I find it difficult to understand why it should be so difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. We have young people born in Denmark, we have young people who have grown up in Denmark and have attended Danish school who still cannot obtain citizenship. I think that is pretty absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154230	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154231	I think that what Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur says is absurd, because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not answer the question of whether a terrorist Danish passport is to be given. The rapporteur speaks out. After all, it is not long since we had a debate in this Chamber, where there was a potential terrorist who was supposed to have citizenship according to the Enhedslisten. That is why Enhedslisten has to answer whether that is what you want, i.e. that criminal foreigners should have Danish passports and that they should have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154306	I am most concerned that if people commit serious crime, whether terrorism or killing or anything else, they will be punished for it. That is what the legislation is all about: if you commit something criminal, you have to be punished. I think that is quite obvious, and I think that we should be absolutely firm on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154330	Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, and it will be the penultimate we reach here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154340	Thank you. Thank you for a strong speech with a focus on the red and the green. It's heart blood that Enhedslisten shares with us in SF. We can also share impatience when it comes to green solutions and the lack of action by the government. But sometimes there comes a little light in the dark, and it typically comes when we work together. There came, for example. One yesterday. Because something amazing happened. in the European Parliament, where Enhedslisten's own Nikolaj Villumsen wrote on Twitter, after the European Parliament, with a very narrow majority, had adopted a slightly less ambitious objective of 60%, that now it was crucial that the majority of the Folketing pressed the government to work for 65%. Then I get a little confused, because how come Enhedslisten voted against us imposing this on the government? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154504	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154506	So I would like to say that it is absolutely crucial that we get the green switch turbo. One of the things that annoys me a lot when we talk about, for example. the phasing out of petrol and diesel vehicles is that it is EU legislation that will prevent us from implementing it. With regard to the specific question of what Enhedslisten has said in relation to the European Parliament and what demands we make on the government, I think I will be answerable. I need to have that conversation with our Member of the European Parliament just to know what the background is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154553	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154554	Because I'm a little confused about it, and I understand if Mr. Peder Hvelplund is, too. Because what is in politics is that sometimes we have to fight a little to get the solutions through; we often do that in the SF, and we were also prepared to do that with a new ambitious climate target in the European Parliament. And it hurts so much sometimes when Enhedslisten says that they want the same thing that is really exactly what we need at the negotiating table, but then at the last minute leaves the dirty work to the rest of us. Does the rapporteur not consider this to be somewhat of a free-of-charge scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154640	In fact, I believe that what was agreed in the European Parliament was that the government should be given a mandate to work for a 65 per cent target, and it is of course the case that, if you have been allowed to sit in the European Committee, you know that work for a working group does not really matter. It just means that the government has to put forward the point of view, but that it should not stand firm. Therefore, when you only say that you have to work for something, it is really the same as saying that you can say that, but if you do not get it implemented, it doesn't matter; whereas if you had given it a mandate that said that it should put decisive emphasis on it, the government would actually have had to stand firm on it. That is why I think it is more accurate to say that it is we who take the dirty work on us and insist that the government should be ambitious in relation to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154756	Thank you. The last in the line that we reach in this round in relation to the Enhedslisten is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154805	I do not wish to admit that I am a member of the Enhedslisten. I'm from the Left, but it's all right... Third Vice-President I hope I didn't say that). However, I would like to put questions to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, and I would also like to sign up to the rapporteur to mention psychological violence, which has after all been equated with physical violence, and it was precisely under a bourgeois blue government that it was introduced. Enhedslisten speaks a lot about wanting to protect the most vulnerable citizens... you hear that again today... but then just not right when it comes to negative social control, I can sense that. There is simply a fear of touch when it comes to it. I wrote down what the rapporteur said in an earlier reply here today: we want to combat it in concrete terms where it is. So would the rapporteur not like to elaborate on what is actually meant by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154909	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008154910	Yeah, I'd like that. That is because negative social control is seen in many parts of society, and it is clear that it is particularly prevalent in certain environments, certain cultures, also in certain religious environments. And what I mean by fighting it in concrete terms where it is is that you have to know the reason for it in order to be able to create the right solutions. That's what we're doing, among other things. has helped to support the creation of safehouses, to provide advice for young people affected by negative social control, in order to ensure that there is more room in crisis centres and that there are no economic conditions that will keep people in negative social control. So I do not quite understand where the perception that this is not something we take seriously or something we do not want to touch comes from. On the contrary, we would very much like to do so, but it is a question of being concrete in finding workable solutions to the specific problems that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155006	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155008	In relation to the women's crisis centres, I just have to say that it may be a tiny bit naive to think that this could be a solution. Well, honestly, these men are just gonna come and fork these women when they leave the shelters again, and then we're straight. That is also why we have been out to say that we would actually rather have tougher penalties, and the alternative is just a one-way ticket out of the country, because that is probably the only thing these men understand the seriousness of. Then the rapporteur also mentioned that it was desirable to ensure that these women were not in an economic situation which might have been subjected to negative social control. I am just a little surprised, because one thing that we have at least been presented with very clearly in here is that a job for these women would be the very best solution. Then why the hell is it that they have agreed to increase benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155056	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155057	First of all, I would like to challenge the fact that it should not help with shelters. After all, these are places where women are also specifically helped further and where they are ensured that they are established elsewhere. So I think it is to neglect the efforts that are being made. When I referred to it in economic terms, it is because today it is not the case that you can get cash benefits from day one at the moment you turn, because you are still being measured by what income your spouse or partner has. That is why we need to ensure that the women affected by negative social control are given the opportunity to receive cash aid at the moment they are approached.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155141	Then we say thank you to Enhedslisten and mr. Peder Hvelplund. We have to move on in the rapporteur's line, and then it's Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008155151	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement on Tuesday. It was a speech to which I naturally have both rice and praise. I am delighted when the government is setting a tighter course when it comes to young people who make it insecure to live in several of our residential areas. I also think it is good that the previous government has found inspiration for the use of a residence ban and has developed further on it. I think that is actually very good and credit for it. All in all, the whole section on justice and foreign policy in the speech is good, and I would like to make those words here today quite a bit. But there's also a men's too, and I'm sure the Prime Minister would have expected that too. There is a large and unresolved question that remains. Lindholm got dumped, but what now? The citizens of the Middle Jutland are waiting and waiting, I should like to say hello. It's violent, so the government has to do something. And I know that the support parties are probably making knots, but something needs to happen. It is now 15 months since the change of government. I also think that more freedom for municipalities and the fight against bureaucracy is strong and necessary. The government has selected seven municipalities, where the framework is now set free within primary school, day care and the elderly. I would like to take part in discussing whether it could be more than seven. I also think it is a pity that the area of employment is not one of the issues; it might be considered to extend it. In fact, I think we have seen some very good examples of free municipalities in the field of employment, and I think that we could go a very long way if we dared to choose some municipalities in this area too. Then it may be difficult, but when you think about the whole health and what happened under corona in relation to our hospitals and the ways you worked, it could also be interesting if you could do it at all somewhere in a region. But no matter what, we're looking forward to the negotiations on this. But there is also reason for frowns. Last Thursday alone last week, more than 6,700 Danes volunteered. This is the highest number of new entrants since 1 July. We need growth, we need jobs, we need financial responsibility. Since February, unemployment has increased by 34 000 people, and this figure shows that we need to create more jobs. Nevertheless, the government has presented a financial bill that costs jobs instead of creating them. The government has reduced the supply of work by 10,000 people, including last year's Finance Act, the Arne Act and its current financial legislation. I think it's as wrong as anything could be, and if I had lost my job because of a corona firing, I would feel let down. Unfortunately, ideology with the government and the support parties is above common sense in my world. Instead of an effective growth measure such as: lower corporation tax, which we know works, the government chooses to increase the share tax from 42 to 45%. The reality is that companies need capital and that they invest in their companies. Instead, the government makes it more expensive and less attractive. And this is only negative. Yet there is a red majority who will implement it. In our view, this is pure ideology, regardless of what is best for Denmark. It might also be good to give the Danes their own holiday money. The last two weeks of holiday money must be released so that our society can move forward. The money should come out so that the Christmas trade can benefit from it. And those who will wait to get the money after New Year must, of course, also have that opportunity. We in the Conservative People's Party fully agree with the trade union movement that the money should be paid out with a flat tax of 38%. If people are penalised by top taxes, we risk that the money will remain standing and the whole idea was precisely that they should go out to work, create turnover, create jobs. So forget the ideology here; do what works. I think we should remember that reforms have increased our prosperity. Reforms are the reason why we have now reached 170 billion. kr. richer a year and that employment has increased by 170,000 people. According to the Ministry of Finance, later retirement age, shorter benefit periods and growth-creating tax cuts will increase the sustainability of public finances by 73 billion. kr. in 2025. Another good example of where, in our opinion, the money is used incorrectly is the debate on the so-called Arnepension. The government went to elections on a pension to the worn out, but instead it has proposed a new transfer income which has nothing to do with wear and tear. Rumor has it that there is an agreement on the stairs any minute now, so I would urge you, who chooses, to look for the small one. Society will lose 10 billion. kr., and for the state it will cost 3 maybe 4 billion. kr. If you could just get this pension if you were worn out, but you can't. You can have it if you got your first job early in life. It is not required that you have a physically hard job or have worked for 37 hours or that you have taken a job all the time. No, you can only have worked the equivalent of 21 years full-time as an office employee if this proposal is implemented. We have found a very good solution for the worn out, and that solution is called senior pension. Be careful that we do not look with the eyes of the past at the challenges of today and of the future. There are quite different rules and guidelines on the labour market today than there were 40 years ago. And then we have to be good at helping people change paths in life. It doesn't say anywhere that if you learn as a bricklayer at the age of 16, you have to do it for the rest of your life. It's too old-fashioned to think like that. I think it is time for a new discussion on what welfare really is. Many compare more money and welfare. I do not agree that it can be produced in this way. For greater public spending is not the answer to everything, but yet we did see the automatic answer from the Left when we saw the broadcast about the demented Else, which was extremely undignifiedly treated. Even with two or three carers around her bed, no one took responsibility; no one showed care; no one helped her. Care and dignity are not about money, but about humanity and management responsibility. Good management and committed employees create good culture. It's as simple as that. That is why I very much believe that we must give more responsibility to the individual nursing homes. It will show who are skilled managers; it will show who we can use and who we can not use. Of course, a manager must know his residents, know the staff, be an active part of it, sense what is going on. I have heard of an example of an elderly citizen having lived four years in a nursing home without ever greeting the head of the nursing home. Then you're not an adult. Free-care homes are in a fantastic alternative. We must see this as a good thing and as a choice for the elderly to make freely. Free elections work best now. The fact that there is only one option is an expression of a thinking that is not used in many other places anymore. I think it is important that we take on board the fact that, even if you are old and you need help, and even if things are difficult, you are still a free person who has his own wishes and needs. We must bear that in mind when we talk about welfare. This Parliament has a huge responsibility for future generations. Most of us in here have reached an agreement on reducing greenhouse gases by 70%. in 2030. We must take that on board and the autumn offers long and difficult negotiations. Cars and agriculture and a green tax reform just to mention something. I think we're all gonna be challenged on this. It will be a challenging round when it comes to the green transition. We must decide indicative targets in 2025 on the road to the 2030 target. We are well helped by the Climate Council's recommendations and by a business community that has so much taken the lead in Denmark. The green transition can give our country great opportunities. Our companies have the solutions that the rest of the world can use. This creates jobs which are, after all, the whole prerequisite for maintaining a welfare society. We're on our way into a new parliamentary year. There are many challenges to be solved. The Conservative People's Party is a result-oriented party. We come to every negotiation we are invited to, and we will go constructively to the work. We do not go along with everything, but we will seek influence and do what we can to pull society in the direction we now find right. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160124	Thank you. And the first brief remark is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160127	I would very much like to sign that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Altinget, on 28 September, fully endorsed the 70-percent objective and that he is also in this Chamber exactly about the climate targets we have to meet. I would also like to acknowledge that he is so concrete and constructive and nuanced on the field by also warning against choosing an unnecessarily expensive route there. - Sir... Søren Pape Poulsen elaborates on what thoughts and concerns might lie behind these considerations if it becomes too expensive? And perhaps also the ideas about business as he has made himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160213	After all, we have had many discussions in many places about what kind of road this is. And if you want the linear path, you're going to have to find 54 per cent, and that's what we think is hard. And then you can have many discussions about how it is with that one, as some say is a hockey stick, or is it a straw in the wind? Is it a branch of willow wicker that's a little wet? Well, we can have many, many discussions about how to go there. But we can't run linearly. I just don't think we can afford that. That is why we must choose sensible solutions. The climate does not get any better from the fact that our business community is moving abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160256	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160258	Actually, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen already answered my in-depth question about the hockey stick and the linear one. Perhaps instead of clarifying a little bit about how strong the Danish business community is on these innovative solutions, because we also know in the Social Democratic Party that there are strong jobs in the green transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160325	I think that sometimes we all have the experience when articles and newspapers are written that we would like to decide what the title should be. And I think that article in Everything just said that I agreed with the government. If you came down to the interview, you could see that I went into more detail. For where we can discuss it is of course: what is that curve or stick or branch, or whatever it is, then? It is also there that there are many devils in the detail. But honestly: Try to look at the business community we have in Denmark. We have an industry that has so far created the solutions. We should be happy with that growth every time someone calls or sends an email ordering a pump at Grundfos or at Danfoss or something at Velux or at others, because we get richer and we do something good for the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160404	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160406	Thank you for that and thank you for your contribution. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen wants to give it the role of someone who wants to say that we can manage with a little less expenditure, that is public expenditure, and that it is not always money that is at stake. He would also like to give it in the role of the person who wants tax relief, that we should also be careful about all that joint borrowing, because it has to be paid back at some point. Why is this not the case when it comes to the European Union? Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen's party, Conservatives, has secured the government's mandate to agree to a budget in the EU over the summer, where Denmark has to pay 4.5 billion. kr. extra per year and has given a mandate to make a joint borrowing in the EU of over 5 600 billion. kr., of which a large portion of the money is given in gift to southern Europe. Well, somewhere they keep those principles, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen speaks in favour of this, and that sounds promising somewhere, not really on the European stage. Why is it that there is this conflict in the policy of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160508	I don't see it as a conflict, but it's not a secret to anyone that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's party and what I am President of are slightly different places in EU policy. Basically, I understand that people think this is a mess. I am happy to say that they are asking why we are pouring so much money in southern Europe. Having said that, it is also about the fact that if southern Europe breaks, if they do not stand on their feet, what is it that we are facing? So where are we gonna sell our goods? What, then, is the situation we are in? For me, the situation in southern Europe is also a security policy. I mean, I don't get too excited when I see how, for example. The port of Pireus is being financed. There, I believe, we in Europe must take much greater responsibility, even if it costs some money. And there I think there is a security policy dimension which simply trumps the economic, if I may be quite honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160605	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160606	There's both this joint borrowing through these new tools, and then there's the European Central Bank, and there's Denmark outside, but there's the borrower. In other words, if we were now to make joint borrowings with the neighbour and neighbour again and so on in Viborg, I think Søren Pape Poulsen would start to take an interest in what they spent their money on, and would also like to have a little influence on how the neighbour spent the money. And it is the same thing that happens in Europe. When you make such a big joint borrowing, you have to deal with what the others spend the money on. It's called a common financial policy. In other words, it is just a direction in European cooperation which, at least if one is so nationalist and founded in the country of origin and the idea that it is here that democracy works best, may well be a little frightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160649	Now I think that the word 'conservative' is strong enough in itself, without any need to be put forward, because we have the national, the social and the liberal in the party I represent. Having said that, I understand that people are saying: what are we really doing? What kind of money do we send to southern Europe, and how do they spend it? I can also give you, I think, ten examples of something that I think is completely headless, where I could ask whether this really is how we should do it. I am also thinking of what the consequences will be if you break in southern Europe. Then they will get enough money from some other places, and I would like to say here from Parliament's platform that I would rather that we stand together in Europe than that it is the Chinese who come with a lot of money and help some southern European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160730	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160732	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Over the past 10 years, we have seen a sharp increase in mental malaria, not least among children and young people, and far too many of them develop treatment-intensive disorders. Nevertheless, responsibility is all too often passed on to the individual's shoulders when it comes to mental problems; both when it comes to what the problems are due to, but also when it comes to getting help for them. In SF we want to change both the conditions and expectations of society that create so much distrust, by getting more tranquillity and creating room for doubt and detours by taking unnecessary pressure from their shoulders. There is an obvious injustice here. If you need a student counsellor, you can get it for free; if you need a social worker, you can get it for free; if you need medical treatment, it is also free; but if you need help with mental problems, yes, you have to find the money for it yourself. Do you think Conservatives think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160834	I think, of course, that we should treat mental and somatic diseases equally in principle. Having said that, we must of course discuss what kind of treatment is being asked here. Is that psychological help for certain groups? Is it direct treatment in the psychiatry we're talking about? Anyway, I think we should be careful not to say that there's just free psychological assistance in high school. And there's some people out there saying something like that where I'm thinking that now we have to be careful that this doesn't run away. I have to say that we have to remember that every time we use the word for free in this floor, it's just an expression that others pay. So we have to find out who is to be helped, and they must of course be helped, but there is such a right to draw in general for example. Psychology, I'm not in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160922	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160923	I hope not, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen believes that it should be us in the Folketing, or that it should be up to Conservatives to assess who needs and qualifies for the psychological assistance. It is the case that today you make an assessment, you call the doctor when it is, you have problems, you may ask for a reference to a physiotherapist, etc. etc. Do Conservatives not trust that people themselves can also feel when they need help, including when it comes to psychological challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008160957	If I am to say that every person in this country can decide for themselves when they think they need certain services throughout the public sector and the health sector, then I know that my answer is that no, I really do not think it is that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161016	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161029	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Oh, there's so many things you want to say, aren't there? The plan was for me to ask sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the discussion on sexism, and I think that is actually important. I read something interesting because I read Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's reaction, and now I quote: if you had said that two months ago, I would have been surprised. I thought that was interesting, because there is a nice honesty in that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen says you've learned something and you've heard something you didn't know was there. That is why I would like to ask what the Conservatives would like to do with the new knowledge. I just think that those women, both them and those in other subjects, need us to act politically on what Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is relatively new knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161137	What I was commenting on was the scale. And I would like to be honest and say that I am surprised that it is to the extent that we have seen it rolled up in the media. And then I feel that it is, of course, a responsibility that we must take on all of us, and we have to start with ourselves in the parties, because we cannot look out at everyone else and say that they must now get started. We are going to discuss it in our National Executive, we are currently discussing with some law firms how we can make a scheme so that people do not run the risk of going to someone who is their closest and who is perhaps the problem. We are going to take it out in our local associations, out in city councils and in regions. We are developing this model now, and I think we should do that in a good way. We have also invited some of those who appeared on the front page of the newspaper to a meeting to talk to them and hear about their experiences. I think it's really important that we take this very, very seriously and don't think that it can be solved by writing a few sentences down on a page then it's solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161244	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161245	I think that all sounds very wise, and it is important to send that signal. I also think it is important that we remember that this is not just in our own little cheese bell in politics. I think it is significantly worse for women who work in Danish hospitals who work as waiters or bartenders or sit behind the box somewhere. There are some places in this society where it is even worse, and that is why we want to make a rule that imposes more responsibility on employers not only to respond if you hear something but also actively to find out if culture is as it should be in the workplace. It is called an indirect objective responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161332	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161333	Immediately when I hear it, I'm gonna get a little skeptical, because what I'm actually hearing, and if I'm wrong, I'm happy to discuss it, of course I am, but if what I'm hearing is that there's such an employer's responsibility for whether you've looked into it or not, how are we supposed to check it out? After all, I like the fact that each individual must simply answer for his own actions and that there will be an opportunity to communicate it somewhere if he has been exposed to something. This is really serious. But it is a good thing that we agree on this far along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161410	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161412	Thank you so much. And thank you very much to the rapporteur for a good speech. Basically, the holiday money system is rather juks, it is a bureaucratic, paternalistic arrangement. That is what the Conservative rapporteur said, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov, when the law, which froze the Danes' holiday money, was to be adopted in 2017. It should be obvious that the system should be abolished, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. It would indicate that people can manage their own money better than we politicians can, he said. And the trouble here during the Corona crisis in getting the frozen money back to the Danes proves precisely the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlovs, point, I think. That's the Conservative President, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, agree that in many areas this should be the foundation of civil cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161525	I am, and I would like to thank you for just reviewing Conservative policy in this area. Because we basically mean: why do we have to get this detour in? At all events, I believe that there is something we need to be even more effective at. We all fall into the pot sometimes, because when you sit here and think that you have to solve one thing, the other and the third, you sometimes forget that it often goes best when people are allowed to do it themselves, for example. to deal with their own money or the challenges they face. So I would like to join in kneeling as a good bourgeois principle; it might be that we could have more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161558	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161600	Thank you so much for your answer. And I very much agree that Denmark needs a bourgeois renaissance. Civil solutions are just better than the Social Democrats. Does the Conservative rapporteur therefore also agree that the way forward towards a bourgeois majority in the Danish Parliament should be found in the form of a copy of the Social Democratic policy, as in the past, to present a clearly value-based and very concrete bourgeois alternative to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161636	Yes, I think that would be good, but we will probably discuss: what does that mean? What we shall try to do is convince a number of Danes that they should vote in a citizen's capacity. Perhaps because they are I would also like to call on the Prime Minister from here today to see that the political situation has got stuck and that elections have been held here later this evening. We're always ready for that. And then we have to use the election campaign to see if we can move some seats, because as it looks right now, the questioner and I probably agree that we need to spend a few more days moving it to something that gives 90.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161718	Thank you so much. Thanks for a good speech and too good a mood. In the alternative, we are lurking a bit at what road the hockey stick or sip or willow twig, or whatever you would call it, turns at the Conservatives. Well, do we have to get going quickly now, and then we can slow down if we approach the target faster than we thought, or should we wait, slowly get started and then hope for some technology to save us? Is it the case that the Conservatives might be ready to look at these climate taxes within the tax freeze? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161801	We've said that if we're going to solve this, we're going to have to do some things that aren't the first thing to do. However, we must have a green tax reform if this is to succeed. I think we might as well just realize that. Then our discussion in this Chamber can be about: where are the balances in it? And it may well happen that we have different views on it. I think that is a logical explanation. And it is not certain that I would say that we should then just have a uniform CO2 It may be that it has to be balanced or that there is some money to be returned, otherwise there will be some professions that will be very difficult. However, I agree with the principle of what is being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161851	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161852	But that also means, in fact, that we have to tax the things that emit the most CO2 fuel, meat and such things. And if we just lead all the proceeds, that is, all the profits we get back to those producers, then we get to the same point. Then I actually understand the Conservatives that, if it is kept within the tax freeze, it will actually help to make meat more expensive and make air travel more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008161926	It was probably a fresh interpretation of what we stand for. Well, we're gonna have a challenge. Let us now take Danish agriculture, for example.: There, on some stretches, it will be more difficult to reduce. At the moment, we are working with and researching whether some feed can reduce emissions and so on. etc. But we must always think about the question. I hope so because we are all doing this: what is good for the world? Because we can easily make some decisions in here that make it very easy for us to get to the end of 70%. Because we can make such tough decisions that we are going to send our businesses out of the country, or we are going to close our agriculture, and then we have solved it, but it just doesn't help anything, because it hasn't made the world a better place. That is why we need to find the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162010	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162012	Thank you very much for that, and thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the speech. I very much recognise that the Conservative People's Party is the bourgeois voice that works, and it is clear that we are not, of course, in all areas yet. When Søren Pape Poulsen sat as Minister of Justice, the Social Democratic Party helped to make some agreements that strengthened the security of e.g. vulnerable residential areas. But we can see that parking spaces in vulnerable residential areas are still insecure, and I understand that Mr. Soren Pape Poulsen then responds to what the Prime Minister said in his speech here on Tuesday. But there's also a small but... I would, for example, like: Hear Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether the Conservative People's Party is ready to also take status symbols from the troublemakers in the areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162057	Yeah, totally. Well, I was very uplifted by that section of the PM's speech. I think that is a straight line, and I also recognise the further development of some of the things that we others had going on. I think it's important. I also think it's important that we can take these things away from them. We've all read the stories that we've all seen the pictures, where some of these people are laughing at the police and tearing a fine in front of them. It's gonna get mad in the garbage. It's funny that these people rarely have a job, some are on transfer income, some don't even have a transfer income, but for some reason they've become so good at saving up that they've been able to afford to buy this very expensive clothes and these very expensive watches and all that. That's interesting. And we all know how they got it, don't we? That's why we just have to take what we can from them. I think we should be ready to lead the way and say to them: Dear friends, if that is the way you behave, we will remove all your status symbols from you. For what must be most dear to all of us is that all people deserve to be able to live safely in Denmark, regardless of the residential area in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162204	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162206	I would like to express a very positive opinion on this. I think this is a sensible direction to take, because we must take the lead in creating security in Danish society. Something else, which is very, very crazy, are the crazy drivers we are looking at on our roads that drive up to 200 km/h. and drives from the police. There have also been accidents where people have been killed. I do not think it is fair that people who drive so crazy and so irresponsible should keep their car. So I'm gonna ask you about sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and the Conservative People's Party are also ready to tighten the screw against these crazy drivers and simply confiscate the car if they can't figure out how to drive properly and civilised on the Danish roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162246-2	Yeah, we are. Then we'll just have to find the right solution if you're looking for leases or straw-man leases or you're using straw-man companies. There's such a little challenge here, but we have to solve that. I think we can, too. And then there are some companies that must also be able to ask for information, for example. ask: Is the one I rent the car to right now, someone who will ever be able to pay a bill? We have to get as close to what we can, because that's the only thing these people have respect for: that you take these things away from them. So we're gonna go into that in a positive way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162320	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162322	Thank you, President. I would like to return to the clue that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl made his move and where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen boldly replicated the fact that he was able to be both national, liberal and social, and that is very inclusive, and in EU policy we also see how Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is able to act as a parliamentary basis for the government. I remember, of course, how sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, when the mandate was to be given in relation to the negotiations on how many more billions we had to send out, was ready when the extreme left failed. There weren't any other bourgeois parties that I just remember thinking it was a good idea to send them there 4-5 billion. kr. more of a year, but Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was ready. And now I understand that it is about ensuring that we can still export away to Italy, Greece, Portugal, southern Europe, etc. I would just like to ask whether this is the general line that we can expect from Mr Beazley. Søren Poulsen's party's side forwards, that is to say that the Danish taxpayers, if things are going a little badly, and if we are going to get growth going somewhere in the world, can always be asked to send a check and that we then stimulate Danish exports. Is that the way forward, sir? Søren Pape Poulsen, Danish treasures, and then everything goes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162432	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162433	If that would reassure Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, I can say: No, that is not the way forward. If I just have to address why we gave that mandate, then I would say that by giving that mandate we have just done what parties in this Chamber have always done, which has agreed that a government should of course be able to take down and negotiate a budget at any time and could have a mandate for it. In other words, should we really imagine that the Prime Minister would call home during the negotiations and say to the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs or who it should be: now that country says so, should we have a new debate? That is where I think we must assume that responsibility and send the mandate, but it is also, of course, the government which, and I have heard nothing else, must be responsible for financing it afterwards. Well, the mandate we gave to that, I hope, too, that Mr. Messerschmidt agrees with me on this particular situation, because that mandate has given civil parties every time there have been budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162527	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162531	Well, maybe we look at it a little differently, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, for I cannot come at any time in the history of Denmark, where a bourgeois party or party has even come home and said to the Danes: Now you have to pay 20%. more for the European Union, you have to accept joint liability, and moreover we do not impose any significant conditions on how the money can be used. Yes, there is little in relation to the climate and such things, but all the guarantees we talked about in the Committee on European Affairs at the time that they were not allowed to be used to reduce taxes in Italy and so on, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen didn't go through with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162615	But conservatism doesn't go on one leg. It has exactly these three legs you're standing on, and then there are some that have a leg that fills more than anything else in these three areas. I just want to hold on to what was the alternative? I fully agree that we are looking at what the European Union is going to be like, and that is why we naturally have this discussion. However, I would like to hold on to this, so you can agree or disagree that this is also a security policy, so that the EU does not collapse. I don't think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt wants the Chinese to become more involved in Europe than they already are. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162647	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162649	Thank you so much. I would also like to say that a few sensible words have been said from the platform, and I would like to sign for that. But I also want to dive into some of the things. The former Conservative Party chairman and Prime Minister Poul Schlüter said back in the 1980s that the rules are piled up, and here of course he meant the public system. Many since Poul Schlüter has tried to do something about this, both red and blue governments, but the fact is that the rules have simply grown and grown, and I think we all know very well, and Mr Schlüter does. Søren Pape Poulsen also states that it is, of course, a major nuisance for the employees out there, who in general are just trying to do something extra for those they now have to do something for. After all, the government has proposed to remove unnecessary rules, unnecessary bureaucracy and to give more freedom to local solutions through proximity reform. Of course, I would like to hear from a former mayor, current party chairman of the Conservative Party, whether he agrees with this, whether he agrees that we need to have more freedom for local solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162754	Thank you for the questioner's start by saying that there were also some sensible things in what I had said. But blind hen etc. I also tried to address the fact that we actually think it is a really, really good idea to take this step in freedom that the Prime Minister is making, but I would like it to be extended to something more, because I would like the employment area to come along, i.e. to try it in some places. I remember when I was the mayor myself, all of us were talking about this, and we did so in very many municipalities, that now state governance in the area of the elderly also had to stop. Actually, I think we were discussing the area of the elderly. There are, of course, many rules to be dealt with. Then we examined it in my own municipality, and then we found out that a lot of the rules there were were not only state, because we in the municipality have also been very good at inventing a lot, and that is perhaps what we need to be challenged on. I believe that the good thing about giving completely free within the legal fence posts is that we will then get tested by whether we, as local politicians, officials and others, are able to think at all out of the box. It's gonna be a really exciting challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162904	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162905	I'd like to sign for that, because that's absolutely right. I myself have been sitting with others in here for many years and have tried to turn and twist the different rules and abolish many of them, and I think most of us can nod to the fact that you have really tried, but every single time there has just been more and more. That's absolutely right. It has also been found out, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen says that it turns out that there are also some that were not created in here, but were created in the municipalities. Now I heard Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen says he wants to see something more, but are you Conservatives ready to take a look at this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008162948	Yes, we agree. We are not going to throw gravel in this machinery, because we just want to be able to negotiate whether we could talk about more municipalities and whether we could talk about the areas; if we fence it in properly, can we? I'd really like to talk about that. And then I think we all, regardless of party color, should be good at saying three words in here when we're asked and there's a case: call the mayor! Because what sometimes creates a lot of legislation is that every time there is a single mistake somewhere, we are in a hurry to make new legislation in here, and we simply need to be able to feed on that. I know it's hard, but I'm also talking to myself here, but that's where I really think it could move too, if we just wanted to say, call the mayor!
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163030	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163031	I know, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen also has a heart that is passionate about young people, and I believe that all young people are ready for education and that we have a fantastic wonderful country that can offer education at many different levels ■ specially organized education, preparatory initial training, vocational training, secondary education. And some of what has made Denmark so successful is also in my optics that we have high ambitions that everyone should have some kind of education; even in the workplace we demand that a young person who goes to work at a young age should have a certificate of competence. So I'm gonna ask you about sir. Søren Pape Poulsen shares the analysis with me that all young people like to have an education when they are ready for education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163127	In any case, they must first of all feel and feel that some people have expectations of them. The worst thing you can do for young people is not to have expectations of them. If you say you don't have to do this because you're having a hard time, too, and something like that. You have to have expectations of them. And sometimes I think it's important that when these young people can't really find a place in life, they sit and talk to an adult in the municipality about it, and then you find out there that what they hate the most, they need more of them to go to school more and get some more education. Perhaps you should start by saying to the young people: Now you get out to work a little, get out to work a job and learn to like going to work every day and get a community among the colleagues, and then you might get started later on with an education. I think that we should be careful not to be so surprised that we think that a young person has not got off the ground properly if it does not deal with youth education. Sometimes we also have to make room for some of those who have just made more impression on the school than the school has made on them. Perhaps they should first get straight ahead and work a little before moving on in an education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163227	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163228	I am very much in agreement with that. Not everyone has to go the straight path, and not everyone has to go on youth education either. But what I also hear the rapporteur say is that there must be a plan for young people, so that there must be an offer to them, that there must be a way for them. There must be someone who likes to say, should we help you if you stumble? What is the problem today is that 30%. of the pupils attending the Danish primary school receive a stamp on the forehead stating that they are not ready for education • 30%. they're told they're not ready for education. Would it not be better, as the rapporteur says, instead of giving them that stamp, to have a plan made to ensure that everyone is ready for something?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163307	I think that should make us discuss just as much what kind of school we have if 30%. isn't ready. I do not know if you can say this, but it has been a lot of the girls' school we have had for many years; that is, many of the practical subjects have disappeared and have been downgraded, and then it has been those who could sit still on their buttocks and keep up with them. I know I'm a little caricatured, but I think we should also be aware of what we can do to get an interest in primary school. For if 30 percent. If we're not ready, we should have done something sooner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163344	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163348	Thanks for the speech. The Corona crisis has highlighted in many ways the inequalities and inequalities that we have in our society. And one of the problems we are facing right now is that small businesses are experiencing really big problems in obtaining the necessary credit. We also saw it after the last financial crisis, when too many small, healthy businesses, and especially rural areas, could not get the loans they needed. And that meant that they had to shut down their life's work and turn the key around. Those who were lucky to get through the needle's eye could get a loan where they could see into having to pay 71 percent. more interest rates than large companies • 71 per cent. more interest rate. It's not okay, you know, to be honest. And in the Enhedslisten, we think that there should be an opportunity to obtain reasonable loans throughout the country. And that is why I would like to start with a slightly open question and hear Conservatives' rapporteur what Conservatives will do to ensure that small businesses across the country have the opportunity to get proper credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163504	I am afraid that I could respond in a way that would disappoint the questioner deeply. In essence, I believe in capitalism and the market economy. And I feel like we've done a lot here in the coronate. We have provided opportunities to have tax and VAT deferred, for example. Well, there's a monetary wealth of the other world. The challenge, then, is who it is you want to borrow out to. And there I feel that I don't think the Folketing should sit and decide that this craftsman should get a loan from the bank, and that this craftsman shouldn't, or that the state should have a bank that does. I would think it was something violent, that is to go that way. One could then try to make business easier: fewer taxes and charges for companies. It was another way to go, and you could also try to make some of them a little more reasonable. Well, it still hasn't occurred to me yet, and that's because I'm slow to perceive why cafes and restaurants and things like that have to close at. 22. I just haven't understood that yet. That means they're losing a lot of money at the moment. Well, you can do a lot of things without having to create a state bank or whatever it is that is coming now because I sense that now I get the solution from the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163611	Thank you for that and if I am now practicing to pronounce the author's name correctly, then it may be that the questioner will promise me not to curse in the next round. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163612	It's a temperament issue. I don't think "sgu" is a swearing word, but I'm gonna stop from now on at least try it out. But the only problem is that in that case the rapporteur is failing small businesses. Capitalism has failed big time. We see that there is a monopolisation that small businesses are also telling us here during the Corona crisis that they are not even being assessed. The door just gets slammed in their heads. They can't get a loan. Then we can talk about the fact that only today we have a package in relation to it. But that doesn't change the fact that what a lot of companies need is capital. And I am actually a little disappointed because I had hoped that Conservatives would help to ensure better framework conditions. We think we should set up a community bank that's focused on this. That might be a good idea, but there are also a great many other ways we could go: we could look at interest rates, see that there must be some reasonable options. Otherwise we will abandon small businesses and we will abandon the self-employed west of Valby Hill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163715	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163715-2	I would like to take 365 days a year to discuss with Enhedslisten which of our two parties does the most for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the private initiative in this society. I don't think that's the way to go with a community bank like that or what came. Well, look at the money-richness that is today. Look at what interest rates are. But do we need coercion? There are both healthy and unhealthy companies. I hope that we will not force banks or others to lend money to companies that are unable to cope. I hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163754	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163756	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen. That was a good speech. A few questions were asked about the mandate given to the government in connection with the European Union, and one of them was given. the mandate for the EU to collect taxes. Then I remembered that this is actually a bit contrary to what the Conservatives normally stand for, namely that they want to relax taxes. I found out by studying the Conservatives programme that you actually want lower taxes on work, that you want lower taxes on everyday goods, that you want cheaper cars and easier registration fees, that you want the top tax away and the inheritance tax down. There are a lot of good things in the Conservative programme. But then I wondered: Where do you actually find that money? Who's gonna finance all those good tax breaks? Because I think it sounds good with the tax concessions, but it may not sound so good for those who have to hand in some money. In other words, should we save on the elderly, on the education system, on the police, or where should that money be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008163901	Thank you for the question. I hear it's kind of a double question. One is the one with taxes and the European Union. I'm gonna start by arresting that. We cannot simply levy taxes from the European Union. It is true that the agreement contains a tax on which Denmark will otherwise make money. This is a completely different discussion. But if we're going to do something that brings growth in this country, it's one of them. To lower taxes. It provides a greater supply of work. It's growing. That's what makes us get more people into work. That's what makes us make more money as a country. And can you take money from anywhere? I think I would venture to claim that not everything runs smoothly in the public sector. I think if we look, we can find some areas. In other words, we have been reporting in a tax plan that we think there is a considerable amount to be done, for example. Our job centers. Maybe we don't think we're just driving like they should. A lot of money is being spent there. A great deal of money is being spent on the whole area of foreigners. There I think we have a common agenda with not least the Danish People's Party. So it is not the case that we are in a situation where there is no money to be found. Perhaps we are about to discuss how we spend the money in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164011	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164012	It is not at all because the Danish People's Party disagrees with the Conservatives here, because we would very much like to find money in the field of foreigners. I mean, over 30 billion. kr. It costs it every year with non-Western immigration. There was plenty of money here, and here we could stand together before the government and get some of that money because it might have been a very good place to find them. Having said that, however, one can also say that the taxes that the Conservatives want to lighten are quite violent. Now I just mentioned five areas, but there are more, so I am calling for a clearer idea of where that money should come from, because that is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164051-2	That is a lot of money, and it is not the case that it happens from one year to another. It's a phase-in. Take, for example. the inheritance tax. There are 23,000 companies, and I just remember what is facing a generational change. Instead of withdrawing capital from the company and putting it in the Treasury, it could be kept in the company to develop the production apparatus. Surely it would do something good for companies and for our society that the state should not bring them in instead. In the police negotiations, we have also been ready to say: we want more officers. Where's that money coming from? The government has opened up cross-financing. Then we have said: let us look at a sea of integration projects that are in this country, as the report after report shows does not work. There's money to get, too. I think we are very much in agreement on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164135	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164137	Yes, please. And thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the speech. I would like to talk about nature and biodiversity. I would like to hear from Conservatives whether they will agree that we will have concrete targets for biodiversity and nature in Denmark and that something is happening in this area; something that I know that among other things. Mrs Mette Abildgaard fought for this last parliamentary term. Now we have a new majority and are therefore Conservatives in favour of ensuring that there is genuine legal protection for these areas that we designate? You guys okay with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164219	At any rate, we are involved in ensuring that we get more nature and also do something for biodiversity. I just don't dare stand here on the platform and promise where we'll just be on the legal side, because then we'll get into something that will also be technical. I don't think I'm gonna bite that hook today. But I can assure the questioner that what Mrs Mette Abildgaard fought for and fought for is what the Conservative Party is fighting for. And when we come up with a financial bill, because that is what we are going to do, more money will also be set aside for that very area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164252	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164254	Now I do not think I can get the rapporteur to fall into any trap and promise anything. That is not where I am. But the important question is: do we really have to guarantee nature and the areas, or should we continue, as we have done so far, to ensure that there is no proper protection of nature? And that is actually mostly the general question that I ask Conservatives will be involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164316-2	Well, I do agree with the very view that we must protect and we must find areas that we must protect. And it also fits well into the climate action if I do not completely misunderstand the question. When both the Nature Conservation Association and agriculture go out and say: Well we have many, many hectares of low-level soils, which could become fantastic nature • which of course has to be paid by box one for it then that's what we have to make decisions about. And we might as well do that now; we might as well get it adopted instead of waiting for some particular debate, because that will have an effect on the bottom line from day one. I am very much in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164349	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164353	Thank you. Soon the Folketing will probably have to deal with a citizen's proposal which suggests that parents should have the opportunity for more children's sick days. It is obvious that children are ill for more than the 1-2 children's sick days that their parents typically have the opportunity to spend. This means that sick children are handed over to day care centres and are infecting other children and staff. That this is problematic, I actually expect us to agree. My question is whether the Conservative People's Party is prepared to find a solution to the problem when the citizens' proposal is before Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164424	That certainly depends on what that solution means, I would just like to start by saying. For what is the proposal? I'm gonna ask you a question. I don't know that citizen's proposal, I might as well just be honest with you. But I feel like there's gonna be an edge somewhere. In other words, if the child has his tenth sick day, should he also be entitled to it as a parent, and who should pay? We need to have a discussion about that. The box isn't just open. But I do not know whether the questioner has a good idea for funding or what the rules should be. We have an obligation to find good answers, but we cannot just sit back and say that this is the problem of society, because the money has to be found somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164508	Mrs. Ina Strjer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164509	We are proposing to increase the labour market contribution and pay in this way. Because no one wins by the fact that children infect other children and that those children are then sick or that the staff are so sick. In Sweden, you have a model where you have the possibility of far more children's sick days, and the calculations show that it is not being exploited and that there is actually a good economy in it. But I hear that the Conservatives are not opposed to looking at it, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164548	Now I haven't been lucky enough to get the gift of having children myself, so I have to be careful what I say here. My view is that not much is needed now until the day-care institution calls the parents at work that they are asked to come down and pick up their child because there is a snot nose here or the person is sick. Then the parents go downstairs and pick up the baby. I just find it very, very difficult to imagine that we can make a solution where you can just say: Well, there are a lot of sick days. That's when you have to try to use your network. That's what family is for. And with regard to raising the labour market contribution, I think the questioner knows almost well the answer from the Conservative People's Party and that is no!
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164634	Thank you. There is no time for any further brief remarks, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008164652	Thank you. It is night and dark in Taastrup in the West of Copenhagen. It's spring 2020. Cecilie's on her way home to herself, as she's been many times before. But this night will be different in a terrible way, which will sit in Cecilie's mind probably forever. A Somali immigrant grabs her, hits her head hard, tears her down, kicks her back, threatens her and forces her to satisfy herself sexually. As he rapes Cecilie, he humiliates her verbally. He tells her how little she is worth in his eyes, that she herself has come out of it, that she should enjoy being raped. And when he's done, he's threatening her not to go to the police... he knows where she lives. The Somali rapist is a known serial criminal. Three times in the past he has been convicted by Danish law of violence; three times he has received a warning of expulsion but has been allowed to stay. Fourth time he assaulted and raped Cecilie, mocked her during the crime and left her with wounds on her soul and body and with an anxiety that won't go away. The Somali was captured and convicted again, and again he received a warning of expulsion, and in a few years or three he will be out again, and then one day he will be standing in front of Cecilie's front door in Taastrup west of Copenhagen. Cecilie finds this very difficult to understand; she finds it very difficult to accept it. I'm afraid Cecilie's story isn't unique. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples to address. About every other person convicted of rape is an immigrant or descendant of a non-Western country. An earlier survey showed that five out of six rapes are committed by non-western immigrants and descendants. All members of the Folketing know the facts from the committee work, from Danmarks Statistik, from the police statements, from the criminal services. Everyone in this room knows that. The Prime Minister knows it and you let it go on. Why? On Tuesday, the Prime Minister spoke warmly when she came to the part about the failed immigration policy in the opening speech. And it sounded to me as if the Prime Minister were genuinely concerned about solving the problems. But unfortunately there was nothing in the speech that could restore Cecilie's belief in politicians' belief that the politicians who are in power in here will give her redress and will give other women their security back. Because there was nothing in the Prime Minister's speech about the sluggish expulsion practice. For too long politicians are and have been insanely worried about breaking up with the extreme interpretations of the European Convention on Human Rights, which plunges out of the Human Rights Court judgments of Strasbourg, which mock the victim but protects the criminal. The Prime Minister can probably see that for Cecilie it is a little consolation that the dunecians of insecure Muslim immigrants and descendants will now be confiscated. I have to ask: how long does the Prime Minister himself think it's going to take before the immigrant gangs just steal a new jacket? It's not good enough, and it's a little too thin and maybe • if you're going to be a little strict • a little ladylike. A Somali serial criminal who assaults and rapes a young Danish woman does not belong here. He's going out forever. And until he leaves Danish land, he must stay in a place where there is only one door out, and that is the door out of the country. Henrik Ibsen wrote: "What you do, do it fully, not piece by piece and split. In New Citizens, after last year's elections, we welcomed the Prime Minister's assurances to solve the immigration policy from scratch when we stood here in the Assembly Hall following the Prime Minister's first opening speech. And we promised to be constructive and contribute to the solutions. Now it has been a year and the problems have not been resolved; on the contrary, they have become worse. And the Prime Minister announced on Tuesday a bill to prepare for an asylum freeze, and thank you for that, but will the government in the current parliamentary year also shut down migrants' access to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark? There is no indication of that. The question is, could the government if it wanted to? Yeah, it could. Because it is not law that is the challenge, it is the will that lacks the will to make it full and complete and not just piecemeal and divided, as Ibsen so wisely wrote. I admit that this has been a difficult period since spring, but we are now in a more normal state of affairs, and if the Prime Minister does not start his government now to honour the promises, my patience and probably the Danes will run out. You can't keep pushing the solutions in front of you. Then you end up in the box with the nasty breakers, all of them, all of them, who didn't understand Ibsen's words either. The Prime Minister has gained the Danes' confidence, and confidence has also become stronger in the current corona crisis. In New Citizens we supported the government when the first wave of corona hit the country. It did in the spring. As the only party, however, we were strongly opposed to abolishing the State's liability to compensation for the companies affected by restrictions. But we went together, and we had the spread of infection stopped. Today our support is weaker and the criticism is stronger. For the government's handling of the second wave wobbly. The dance with corona lags. There is a lack of a plan; there is a lack of clarity; there is a lack of transparency. Self-employed workers, yes, entire industries are affected by livelihoods and profits, and at the same time the possibility of compensation that existed in the past has been removed. It is deeply unfair to the Danes who are affected and it is harmful to the smaller communities in particular. When a small company in Løkken or another small town goes bankrupt, it does not just open a new one. Then life disappears from small urban communities, and it doesn't just come back. It is crucial that, when we adopt a new epidemic law in the near future, we in the Folketing should reinstate a state liability. The Corona crisis has taught us that there must and must be a tight framework for a government shell and valten with the operation of private companies and the possibility of making money. I do not have the great expectation that this is a matter that causes the left to lie sleepless at night, so it will be a task that we in the bourgeois parties must stand together and push the government to do. Therefore, I turn to the side of the hall where my blue friends sit impatiently to move over to the chairs in the series of ministers. But even if the eyes are focused on power, it is no use to seize power just for the sake of power. You need to know what it's for. If the intention is merely power, one might as well let the Social Democrats pursue social democratic policies rather than do so themselves. New citizens will not support such an empty project. I think that we in the blue family should become concrete in our cooperation towards the next parliamentary elections. Let us create a real bourgeois alternative based on a concrete bourgeois policy. When the two leaders in the '00s were called Bent and Anders, they laughed a bit of the flybones and the firm promises, but the contract policy could do something. It could deliver it after an election that the politicians had promised the Danes before the elections. And politicians here 20 years later can actually learn a little from that. What you say before an election, of course, you have to do after an election, if you have a majority in favour of it. We need to lay the foundations for a bourgeois renaissance. We must get the Danes along with us and set a course for greater freedom, greater prosperity, fewer taxes, lower taxes, fewer laws and simpler rules, a larger private sector and a smaller public sector. I and New Citizens will support this project, and I hope that in the blue family we can find the tune and do it together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165635	Thank you. Then we start with the brief remarks, and first it is Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165642	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would actually like to ask a few questions about some of the proposals which came the second day of the opening speech and which have also been presented this morning by a number of ministers, because of course we are concerned with obtaining support for them. We are in a clearly different ball street from the violent story that Mrs Pernille Vermund told. We are over insecure behaviour at S-train stations and in places, and elsewhere we have talked about vulnerable residential areas. Is it not something that we can expect the support of the new citizens, in other words, to intervene more strongly and also more quickly to be able to put people out of a home, if you cannot find out in the area you live, to behave properly, so that we get closer to something where there is a consequence to the kind of behaviour that I understand New Citizens are also asking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165750	Unfortunately, as the Prime Minister said the other day, this is also a consequence of an extremely failed immigration policy, that is to say that we have taken people here who not only turn their backs on our values, but who are directly opposed to them, are working against us, creating insecurity and creating a distraction of our society, and we must do away with that. We are very willing to impose consequences on the people who have this antisocial behaviour, as we call it, and we would like to see it not only if we talk about foreigners, that is, foreign citizens, sending them away from a station or a railway station, but that you can send them all the way out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165835	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165836	If crime is serious enough, and if it is not one that has Danish citizenship, then it is also an opportunity, but if you have it, and if the citizens have family here and have lived here for generations, then it is not on the flat hand that you can just do it. After all, we are over in some of the tools that the government is presenting now, and where I would actually just like to ask for the expression from New Citizens that we can see that here we are taking some strong and strong steps to correct the insecurity and unreasonable conditions that exist for some people's everyday lives in some residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165914	But if those who have acquired Danish citizenship and probably never should have had it, do not have another citizenship, or if they are born with a Danish citizenship, there is nothing else to do but treat them as Danes, give them a proper fine and make sure that they are locked up if they cause problems, a betrayal of culture, etc. However, when we talk about foreign nationals or people with dual nationality, we think it is quite reasonable that when you think that this is such a big problem that you are willing to impose sanctions such as heavy penalties and also prison sentences, we say that if it is a foreign national or a double-national, you have to get them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165957	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008165959	Thank you for a good speech to Mrs Pernille Vermund. I think basically that there was a story that made a great impression, and it was a story we have known in Danish society for years. We see foreign citizens doing very serious crime, they get one sentence after another, and yet they are still stuck in Danish society; we do not get rid of them. And then the government and the Prime Minister and the Socialists can talk so much about the tight immigration policy and about the desire to do one thing and the other and the third. But this thing about getting $10,000. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. The main problem here is, of course, our conventions. It is in relation to our international conventions where it is necessary for Denmark to resign from them or make reservations about key parts. And I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund whether New Citizens, together with the Danish People's Party, could conclude a cooperation or a pact that it is necessary for Denmark to withdraw from the international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170106	We have said from the outset that these problems need to be resolved, and if what is needed to safeguard Denmark and our freedom and our security means that we have to derogate from international conventions or withdraw from them, then we do so. There are, of course, some conventions which are obviously out of date: the stateless convention, the refugee convention, to name two. It is conventions that are made for purposes other than those which they serve today. The Refugee Convention is an example: we have migratory waves coming up here; that has hardly been the intention when the agreement was approved at the beginning of the 1950s to accede to the Refugee Convention. So, yes, finally! Then there is the Convention on Human Rights, and there we have also said from the outset that if it is difficult to expel criminal foreigners because of the Strasbourg judgments, then we must write into the Aliens Act that Danish law applies here and then we must depart from the judgments that come from Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170205	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170206	I see that as a yes. Pernille Vermund It was also). Here we have the New Civil and Danish People's Party and then we just have to hope that the other parties both on the bourgeois side, but also the Social Democrats will do something. If you really want something in the field of foreigners, if you really want to expel criminals who commit rape, who commit violent crime in Denmark, that is to say if you really want to expel them and send them home because they do not meet the conditions for continuing to be here, then you have to agree with the cooperation or pact we then make that criminal foreigners should not therefore be allowed to be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170243	Yeah, and that was a yes. And I really think it's a little interesting when you've seen it this way from the outside, because then there was a period before the 2015 elections when the Left said a little bit that there were enough conventions that you had to settle with at the time it was the stateless convention that I remember but then you got the power, and then you forgot all about it. Then the Left had power, and then there was a gifted Social Democrat who, unfortunately, is no longer here, who said anything about a dispute with the conventions, and now you have power, and then it is abandoned. I think this testifies to the fact that there are probably many people close to a majority in Parliament who can see that there is a discrepancy between what a majority in Parliament wants and what the conventions require us to do. And I think we should be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170335	Thank you. Then speaking time is up, and now it is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170336	Thank you. A little over a month ago Sofie Linde took the magazine out of her mouth and told of the sexual harassment she had experienced in the media industry, and many have followed suit: doctors, politicians, a lot of other journalists, loose employees, interns, and I could go on. I really think it's cool that they stand up and say they're gonna change this culture. However, I can see that Mrs Pernille Vermund has stated in various places that the ongoing debate on sexism and sexual harassment has taken precedence. Can Pernille Vermund elaborate on what is more precisely in the current debate that she thinks has gone too far? Is it the 322 signatures of women in politics, the 1,615 women in the media industry, they are currently. 988 women doctors, or is it women in the catering industry who have recently pointed out that sexual harassment is also taking place in their industry? Or who does Pernille Vermund think is out of control?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170450	Yes, I think that this debate has gone too far, and I think it is really, really sad for what was the original starting point and which is also the starting point for some of the women who come forward and come up with some horrible stories. When I say that it has gone too far, it is because you have real sexual abuse and abuse and abuse of power, which is one thing, and then you have what I call a shitty flirt, or something where you thought there would be something, and there should not be any, or even even a silly, silly tone in the other category, and when you mix the two things together, it will simply be to mute the debate. I think, and it is a sad example to have to pull out, that it is quite wild that in some places you have a culture so controlled that you do not dare to admit that 10 years ago you have put a hand on a woman's thigh. Well, quite frankly, if it's so awful that you don't dare come out with it, then it's gone too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170601	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170602	But what puzzles me is when so many women come forward and tell their stories, really horrible stories. There are, of course, some things on a scale, but those women themselves consider that they have been subjected to an abuse, that they have been violated, and a great many of them even saw at their workplace where, in my opinion, such things do not belong. Then I am surprised that the rapporteur is questioning it, in other words, about those experiences. What is it about the experiences that make the rapporteur in doubt as to whether this is a real experience, a real violation? It amazes me that you do not go out and say that yes, so, let us do away with this culture, but instead say: Uh, we should be careful that we can no longer compliment each other. Because that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170644-2	I am not questioning whether these women feel offended, and they do so quite openly. What I'm saying is that there are parts of this that depend on where our borders are. I'd say that if the radical left or the rest of the left came down and were on our side of the Ride track, they would die because we have a free tone. We associate in a very free environment, and we have a culture that is probably significantly different from other places at Christiansborg. There I just have to say, and you should also be able to say that in some places you feel in one way, and elsewhere you feel in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170725	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170728	Right now we are negotiating the right to a previous pension, and in the Enhedslisten we think it is completely irresponsible that people can continue to crawl on scaffolding and lift the elderly in home care until they are well up in the 1970s, and there is something that puzzles me. We often discuss how to ensure better conditions for, among others. The sosu. If it were up to us, there should be a low-wage pool so that they could get something more in pay so that we ensure that they get recognition. We would also like to ensure that they have more colleagues. of their far too low pay and pay in to a pension savings. I just don't understand why you can't undo this professional group and the other low-paid people, that we are saying that we are paying together to give them a decent pension, but that it is they who already have a really low salary that have to pay even more. I simply do not understand that. Will the rapporteur not tell us a little about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170833	Well, I can start by saying that we are already paying the salaries of the public employees together. So when we say that we think it is wise to introduce a system in which all Danes save up for their own pension, it is to ensure that, whether you are a sosu assistant, a private employee, a self-employed person, or whatever it may be, you do not find yourself in a situation where, when you reach retirement age, you have nothing to live on. We do not want older people who do not have money for a dignified old age, and you can either do what you are doing now, when it is the people who are sitting here who are in charge of the elderly, who are retired people today, or you can do what New Citizens are proposing, so to ensure that each person is able to save up for his own pension and can see in concrete terms how much he has to do and what he has to live on when he gets old. In fact, I believe that it will provide a great deal of security, including for the sosu assistants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008170933	It is rather grotesque if there are some who carry out some of the tasks that we think are so important that this is something that we give priority to jointly, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. But that is what it is that New Citizens have that view. And it is also in relation to the private employees and also the low-paid private employees that you have the view that they have to pay more than DKr 2 000. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. Why can we not ensure a dignified withdrawal, which is also solidarity? What's the injustice in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171015-2	But I have to ask: where does the rapporteur think the money comes from? I mean, the money that the sosu gets in a retirement pension when she retires is also money that she has helped to pay into tax. She just can't see today how much she's worth when she's retired. So we are all currently paying for those who are older today. We propose that it be reversed so that we have a transition which, of course, will have overlapped, that is, a smooth transition so that people start saving up for their own pension and so that you know what you have to do well with. This means, of course, that you do not have to pay that part of the tax, but that you pay it into the pension and have control that you have enough money when you become a pensioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171102	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171103	Thank you. I'd like to say that I'm gonna stay on the same ball street we're in now. Now this is not something that the rapporteur has mentioned in his speech, but one cannot be in doubt if we keep in mind that New Citizens are very much opposed to the bureaucracy that has taken place in Denmark over a long period of time. Among other things, it has. had an impact on how our entire welfare system is arranged. So I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund if she agrees that the centralisation that has taken place since the municipal reform came about is wrong, we should say 15-16 years ago. And I would also like to ask whether she will support the social democracy in the decentralization that we are currently working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171200	Decentralization is part of New Citizens' DNA. It is even in our programme of principles. And I would say that I will go further back, because the municipal reform, which is relatively new, i.e. from my time, is the second time we also had a structural reform; we are all the way back to when the parishes were put together and so on. We'd like to decentralize. We think it is quite right that for too long the power has been withdrawn from the families and close communities and in here at Christiansborg. We also think that too much has been sent to the European Union. We want to give back both freedom and responsibility. Because we believe that it is wise for those who experience the consequences of the decisions also to be responsible for changing things and making the decisions that need to be taken to change things. So when responsibility and consistency are linked, we believe that you get some solutions that fit well with the individual place, and then we don't get a country where this is • what do you say plain layers of liver pie that don't fit anywhere that gets smeared all over the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171305	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171306	I think that's really good to hear. The Prime Minister then mentioned in his speech on Tuesday that we are now proposing to set seven municipalities free, or at least almost completely free, with the consequences that it may now have. I would like to ask what Mrs Pernille Vermund thinks about this. And at the same time, I would like to hear a suggestion whether she believes, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said whether politicians would then be able to keep their hands off, to put it plainly. 'Cause it's gonna be really, really hard when you set it free. But are New Citizens ready to give the municipalities full freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171351	I fear that politicians will not be able to keep their hands off. I fear that from in here politicians will want to say: now we have to do something. I also fear that the municipalities will not be able to keep their hands off. We would like the responsibility to be transferred to the institutions and allowed the money to follow the citizens so that we can vote with our feet and so that bad institutions can feel it in their, what to say, customer base. I mean, a school that doesn't do well must get up and a school that does well is successful. So I fear that the politicians will not be able to keep their hands off us, but we have one hundred percent support for the project. We would also like to see it spread in several areas. And the job centres are, of course, a place that we really would have liked to have included in this, because we know that this is an area in which the costs of administration and bureaucracy have increased even in times of very low unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171440	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171442	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, Mrs Pernille Vermund. During this year we have heard a great deal of evidence of racism in Denmark, and I am actually absolutely convinced that racism exists in Denmark. I have heard Mrs Pernille Vermund himself and her colleagues from New Citizens say that it is a question of individual idiots, and I am a little puzzled because I can read that both the Rockwool Foundation and the Institute for Human Rights have documented that it is harder to get an internship if you do not have a Danish-sounding last name. And recently the police have announced that most of the hate crimes committed in Denmark are racistly motivated. So I should just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund: is there racism in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171534	Yes, of course there is racism in Denmark, and we must fight that, and we must put an end to it. I have never said that it is only a few people, but I have said that of course there is racism and that of course there are idiots everywhere. Thank God we are a country in which racism is not rampant, and we must take it, and I hope that we will join forces to hold it down. The times when we have had questions about racism and anti-Semitism for that matter, we have, thank God, agreed. But yes, there is racism, both against people who have dark skin colors and against people who have light skin colors, and that is something we must put to death.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171612	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171614	I fully agree with that, that is to say there is racism, and that is why I would like to hear from New Citizens whether you support the Enhedslisten's proposal that we should have a special police unit to combat hate crimes. Because we have seen that hate crimes take place in Denmark, and those hate crimes are committed both on the basis of human sexuality, human religion and human skin color. In fact, the figures given yesterday by the police show that most people are racistly motivated, in other words on the basis of skin color. So does New Citizen support the idea that we should have a special police unit to fight hate crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171654	It's just before I say that we almost have a special unit in the police against hate crimes. So we no longer have that, because now the military is standing there. But we have a synagogue in Krystalgade, which cannot work on equal terms with churches, mosques, etc., because there are Muslims in Denmark, radicalized Islamists who want to kill the Jews. It is the kind of hate crime that is the worst in Denmark. It is quite specific people who cannot live freely, and we maintain that we will always protect those people who are threatened because of their background or because of their religion, as the Jews do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171736	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171744	Thank you, and thank you to New Citizens for very good cooperation in the area of justice and, by the way, in many other areas of policy. I think it's been a pleasure. That is why I was actually a little surprised by the hardness of the speech by Mrs Pernille Vermund. I am not going to start plunging myself into other such names that you might come up with, but I was rather surprised because I have an experience that we share the view that there is a need for a firm policy on foreigners and on the law. Then we can have a discussion on the conventions, and that is quite legitimate and fair. However, I was a little overwhelmed and it may be that I heard the wrong day that the rapporteur said that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament for that view of the conventions. I didn't quite understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171839	What I am saying is that I think there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who can see that the conventions are contrary to what we in the Danish Parliament want, or that we often encounter conventions in what we want. I have often heard Social Democrats say that it would be desirable to do so, but that there has been a consideration of the conventions or a consideration of the European Union or of other international agreements to take into account. Similarly, I have heard Members from the Left say the same. So that a majority in this Parliament wants to pursue a policy that offends the conventions, I did not think it was a secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171920	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008171921	Okay, it got a little clearer to me then. Because, in a sense, I share the view that there may be some conventions where it can be said that they have been written in a different time, and that is why there are sometimes challenges with those conventions. Then we can disagree on whether they also provide some benefits in terms of protecting Danish citizens, also around the world, and have a different view of what really serves Denmark and Danish interests best. But I was just a little surprised because I actually had the impression that it is also some of the things that share over in the bourgeois side of the camp here, and that was then confirmed. But I look forward to continuing the good cooperation that we actually have in the field of foreign affairs and justice policy, and also hope that, where we encounter some limitations in relation to the conventions, we will be able to find good solutions in common.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008172011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008172012	We would very much like to cooperate constructively. We have said this from the beginning, and we maintain it, but I will not hide the fact that we think it is a completely wrong way, and we are deeply concerned about how fatal it will be for Denmark, when conventions are being maintained that force us to bring people here who destroy our country; who force us not to expel them when they commit crime; and who force us to give them citizenship, despite the fact that we can see how they manage that citizenship. So it is and will be fatal to Denmark, and I will insist on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008172050	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008172100	Thank you. I would like to talk about something that is close to my heart and that is deeply concerned with my mind, and that is because it is the many mistakes that the government is making. However, let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister for saying honestly on 11 March that both the Prime Minister and the government would make mistakes in dealing with the Corona crisis. I thought that was a dressable and actually a rare humility. But of course we all make mistakes, we humans do. The important thing is that we correct our mistakes so that they do not turn into actual mistakes. Or to put it in a slightly different way: it is human to fail, but it is foolish to go on with your mistakes. The mistakes made at the beginning of the corona crisis that we did not have sufficient protective equipment; that we did not have a proper test strategy; that we did not have a proper detection of the infection; that we scolded the IKEA for opening up in a proper way; that we closed the kindergartens, although it did not turn out to have an effect; that we introduced strange six-day rules in Copenhagen is actually all something we can forgive. Denmark has never faced a corona virus before. It is not easy to lay the tracks while the train is running. It was indeed a difficult task to be a government and prime minister for that matter in such an uncertain situation. Fortunately, the government has now had both the experience of its many mistakes, but also a relatively calm summer to lay out the right rails in order to handle the second wave of the corona virus. But it seems to have come as a surprise to the government that there is still corona in Denmark. Where's the strategy? There are still long waiting times for tests, the infection detection is questionable and the closures come out of thin air. Where is transparency? Where is the predictability? Yeah, where's the logic and the system? When the Social Democratic Party was asked to present the professional evidence for the latest round of restrictions, it was rejected by the Social Democratic rapporteur with the explanatory statement: it may cast doubt on the line. Well, what line? After all, this is the line we would like to know, because most of us Danes are adults, senior citizens who can handle the facts. Here we could be inspired by the Irish system. In Ireland, they have clearly defined different stages of decommissioning depending on the evolution of the infection. However, rather than presenting a transparent and predictable strategy and plan, the government would rather keep up at the press conference after a press conference, preferably a late Friday afternoon, where you can cancel weekend parties. Yes, at the beginning of the corona crisis, some mistakes were, of course, made, fair enough. But playing with cards so closed now that people act so indiscriminately and opaquely is rather a fundamental mistake. It is a mistake that makes it harder to detect and correct any errors. When it comes to the debate on public welfare, the discussion is often lost in the human mistakes that occur in everyday life. Instead, we should be dealing with the fundamental mistake that the solution to soon all the problems in this country is higher public spending, more public employees and higher public services. It's welfare, hurrah! Just look at the discussion about the good life of children, where you would sometimes think that just more educators will be there, and the children will be fine. But is it really happiness that Danish children have world record in being in day care for the longest time, the longest time away from Mom and Dad? Is this how we ensure good children's life? I have no doubt. So more time with Mom and Dad is also welfare, yes, even core welfare. But in Denmark both mother and father have to work full time, otherwise there is no money to pay both bills and some of the world's highest taxes. That's the price of our high taxes. It's less time with the kids. Yes, the price of our high taxes is less welfare. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance want to give parents more freedom to look after their young children themselves or let close family members do so. The allowance for a daycare institution must be exchangeable with a tax credit of DKr 130,000 if one parent wants to go home with their young children, and the allowance for care provision, that is, the money, must follow the child, even if you want to spend it on a private childcare provider • it could be a family member. For welfare is therefore more and more than public institutions. It is a serious mistake if we forget the family in the discussion about good children's life. During the summer we have all, I think, seen the documentary about the nursing home Kongsgården, where three employees stood around poor Else, and that was just before they laughed at her torments. Last year we had to watch the TV 2 documentary • Daycare institutions behind the facade, where it was in Danish daycare institutions that were committed care failure. This kind of human error and human failure can occur everywhere, including in nursing homes and in day care institutions, but when the leader from Else's nursing home is not dismissed, but moved to another nursing home, yes, we are out of small trivial human error. When the municipality tries to cover up the case and get support from the FOA to it to protect the employees, yes, it's the system that's wrong with it. One must have been in the public trade union movement for a very long time if one looks at the recordings of Else and thinks that it is a pity for the employees. Now, that's to keep going with your mistakes. Let's turn the bucket around. Let's get a management reform... it called a good colleague it earlier today; a lay-off reform is the more polemical version... which makes it easier and more natural that we get rid of bad managers and incompetent employees in the public sector. I think we know most of us in here that unfortunately there is no tradition of dismissing the bad leaders in public and that the leaders do not always have enough freedom to get rid of the employees they do not want anymore. Let us correct the fundamental mistake that has been made in our welfare system. But when it comes to correcting decades of mistakes and mistakes in public welfare, yes, I would actually like to give a few words of praise to the government and to the Prime Minister to take the initiative to set a few schools, a couple of day-care facilities and a few nursing homes free in a few selected municipalities. I think it's a good idea. It's a rather unambitious idea, I think. The Prime Minister himself calls it a rather wild idea. As soon as we have to sprinkle a bit of freedom over our welfare institutions, yes, it's as if we're planning to send a space rocket to Mars. It says little about the need for social democrats to manage and control things in Danish society. But yes, we must have more freedom, preferably in all 98 municipalities, and citizens must also have more freedom, more free choice and more competition in public welfare. Unfortunately, I find that the government does not like competition and free choice. Most recently, it is after the private settlements that take care of our very weakest fellow citizens, because the settlements are trying to make money from what they are skilled at. But listen to me: private settlements have profits because they provide services, they provide a social contribution, and the government will shut that down. I think it is petty, and if I were to point to one common mistake in the Red Government and in the Red majority, it is petty. The government is not under the citizens of anything, neither critical information about the corona crisis nor the possibility that private welfare offers may germinate, nor the possibility that more people may keep more of their own money. Yes, in just a year the government's petty policy has thrown off 23 tax increases and made the Danes poorer. I think we should go the other way. Let us get lower taxes on top and bottom, lower taxes on savings and investment, yes, lower taxes on what makes Denmark richer. We need a policy that makes it cheaper and not more expensive to make Denmark richer. Yet the government will continue to increase taxes: new taxes on renting property, new taxes on having a bank and higher taxes on entrepreneurship, yes, taxes on everything the Reds don't like. Oh, my God! We know from decades of experience that this kind of policy is harmful, but against better knowledge, you will still forget the Danes with more taxes. Yeah, well, that's when you're making mistakes. Denmark needs us to go another way. Denmark needs a generous government that, under the citizens' clear strategy of the Corona crisis, a generous government that will reward everyone who does good for our children, for our sick, for our vulnerable and for our old, whether it comes from public, private or family. Yes, Denmark needs a generous government which, under its citizens, more, including its own money, a generous government that takes responsibility for its mistakes and corrects them instead of making progress with its mistakes. Thank you for the floor. Go ahead! Go ahead!
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173109	I'll take it from here. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173121	Thank you. And thank you for an always very committed speech from Alex Vanopslagh. It's so good with this burning political commitment; it's going all the way down here in the back row. I am aware of the fact that the rapporteur is also concerned about the welfare state and actually also likes the Danish welfare and the many other Danes. That is really positive, and we are pleased about it too. I also note the rose to the Prime Minister's thanks for that. Now it is the case that a great many social and health assistants, educators, etc., our front staff, in everyday life, actually spend a great deal of time on paperwork, and I know that the Liberal Alliance has been very concerned about red tape in the past. That's why I'd like to hear Mr. Alex Vanopslagh I shall learn to pronounce the rapporteur's name correctly; my name, Vind, is a little easier if he can see that we could debureaucratize by simply removing some of the paperwork and freeing up some resources for presence and care. Could the rapporteur see and support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173240	Yeah. Let me start by thanking you for those nice words, and I am happy if my commitment is contagious. After all, we are a small group and we have room for more, if it were to infect such a great deal, although I am not going to hope too much, even if it is called the Festival of Democracy. But the answer to the question is: yes, of course we can see ourselves in a political agreement that ensures less bureaucracy. And I have, in fact, and now there is a praise without sarcasm... relatively high hopes for the proximity reform presented by the government. I mean, you can say a lot about this government, but it's a government that usually does what it says on many points. It just usually says the wrong thing, but here it says the right thing, and then it gets exciting to see if they also step through here. However, this requires that we also dare to put our hands on the municipalities. After all, there is a lot of bureaucracy coming from the municipalities, and what was called a rather wild idea I thought it was an unambitious I think you have to go home to your own country, and that is probably both in the Left and in the Social Democratic Party and say: that is actually where the problem is. But yes, we are constructively entering into those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173337	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173339	Thank you. That was a nice positive response. What I was listening to is that we can really count on the support of the Liberal Alliance for something more decentralization and more autonomy in the municipalities, and that a start could be to say that we start with these seven selected municipalities, and then hopefully it is contagious. Because I think that the Social Democrats also support saying that much of the bureaucracy that exists today may already be put to death in the municipalities, without perhaps having to run it in detail in here from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173413	I think we should go much further than that. Ideally, then, it should be said that all the welfare institutions are, from the outset, self-serving and that there must be particularly exceptional reasons for imposing bureaucracy on them. I myself had the suggestion in this Chamber during a question-time with the Prime Minister that you might actually just have to do the experiment where you identify all the unnecessary, unnecessary bureaucracy... together with the trade union movement, it will probably be in practice and say: then we will suspend the bureaucracy for a whole year throughout the public sector, and then we will see what happens. And if it's the case that the nurses say they're sighing for the meaningless paperwork, then surely we should consider reintroducing it. So I hope that we will go further than what has been proposed so far, but again I would say: we will be constructive in all negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173454	Thank you. Mrs. Sophie Løhde, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173456	I would also like to start by thanking Mr. Alex Vanopslagh for a very good speech, which even rhymed in several places, and actually follow up on the question raised by the Socialist rapporteur. The Prime Minister thinks it's crazy to give the municipalities some freedom. We feel like we don't think it's crazy; we're just crazy about freedom, freedom under responsibility. Therefore, I would also like to ask about this with the seven municipalities that can now make some attempts at freedom. We warmly support that. We may think it is a little limited that seven municipalities in one area are allowed to do so. I'm just gonna ask sir. Alex Vanopslagh, if he does not also think it is a pity that we have not now spent at least in the last year getting some experience with all the free municipalities attempts that the previous government set in motion, but which the Socialist Government started to stop. There were 13 municipalities that had applied for entry, they got no, it was cancelled. The experiments with free institutions, which are exactly what you want here, were stopped by giving individual institutions freedom, and the experiment with autonomous schools, which were supposed to run in 98 municipalities, was stopped. You were against this, but it is good that you now want to experiment with something more freedom, including in primary school. I just want to ask Mr. Alex Vanopslagh: Does not the rapporteur also agree that perhaps this freedom should be extended a little further so that it was not just seven selected municipalities, but that the municipalities that raised their hands and had something in their hearts that they would like to offer were allowed to have more freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173635	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173636	Yes, of course, one can say. Some of what many of us blue parties have criticised the government for in the Corona crisis has been the zigzag course, and I understand that there is also a zigzag course in terms of giving the municipalities more freedom, and that would probably be better with such a more consistent line, where they are constantly being given more and more freedom and preferably at a slightly higher pace. Mrs Sophie Løhde herself mentions the suggestion that all municipalities should each have one primary school which had as free a framework as the free schools. It was a proposal that the Liberal Alliance came up with at the time, and it is a fantastic proposal, and I hope that it can be revived, because imagine a revolution of freedom, it could start if all municipalities each had one school as free as the free schools, wouldn't the other schools look enviously at it and say: the free framework and the confidence in our professionalism would we also like? So I hope that is something that the Left will also press for in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173729	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173730	This was exactly the freedom we wanted to have by presenting the proposal for autonomous schools, where everyone in the country's 98 municipalities could be allowed to bid and where it was not just two municipalities with two primary schools. We also believe that we could gain more representative experiences, both the good ones and some of the bad ones, because we must be ready to take that on board when we unleash something; we must also learn from the rapporteur's speech and mistakes that are being made along the way, because that will help to ensure that we do not commit them again next time. So we would like to make a commitment on that. I would just like to ask the extent of these attempts at freedom in the municipalities. Is the Liberal Alliance also of the opinion that it is perhaps a little pauvert that seven municipalities should be selected by the Prime Minister's Office alone, which will be given the opportunity to do something in seven isolated areas, rather than allowing more people to come up to them, who would like to contribute to a new approach to the public sector as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173837-2	It's crazy that you can call it wild that you free a few welfare institutions in a few selected municipalities in Denmark. I mean, it's not an experiment that you get an unbureaucratic welfare institution. This isn't an experiment. No, the experiment is rather what we have been doing in the last 40 years, when we have imposed more and more bureaucracy. It is an experiment and it is an experiment that has proved to be wrong, and now we need to correct that mistake and there are the mistakes behind which we believe that we can control ourselves to a better public sector. So the Left and the Liberal Alliance are completely in line with each other here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173908	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008173910	Thank you. During this committed speech with built-in rhymes and everything, and it's nice, there were also some words about the care of the elderly, and I think as chairman of the Danish People's Party, of course, that it is really, really nice that Mr. Vanopslagh is interested and engaged in the debate about our care for the elderly. Now I had the opportunity to debate with Mr. Van Opslagh last Thursday in the debate and has also heard him earlier here today in relation to questions and now at the rapporteur level, and in relation to this, that if you fail in the care of the elderly, there may well be a limit of patience that is exceeded so that you do not have to be in the care of the elderly anymore, and I fully agree with the rapporteur. There are some stingy vessels that need to be picked out, and then they have to make something else. Sir. Vanopslagh has just used the example with the manager at Kongsgården in Aarhus, who should have been placed in another nursing home and has been able to continue working there. I've just been trying to find that, but I just can't find it, so I'm gonna have to ask if Mr. Vanopslagh here makes a mistake. It's human to fail or whatever place he may have been moved to. And it's not for teasing or anything. It is simply because I have not been able to find it and, as I understand it, the manager is actually not the head of a nursing home in Aarhus at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174024	In other words, if it is the case that I remember wrong what I have read or that we have skilled employees who may have told me something wrong, then it is first and foremost an embarrassing mistake, a mistake that needs to be corrected, and I would say that I will have it checked tonight, and then I will report publicly on my Facebook page if it is that I have made a mistake with it, because it would be gross, especially when I have used that example, yes, at least a handful of times gradually. I have also been wondering a little bit about how it has not been any more about Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's radar, as it is a DF councilman in Aarhus Municipality who is responsible for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174056	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174057	That is exactly why, of course, I have been a little committed and interested in the task being solved. For things must be in order, and if things are not done properly in the care of the elderly, also in a place where one of the members of the Danish People's Party has a primary responsibility, it must be corrected. That is why it has been important, also over the summer, that the conditions in Aarhus will of course be corrected, as in all the other municipalities in the country, where there are stumbled vessels. It's just been a discussion we've had, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and others have also mentioned it: this is how we ensure that the skilled employees we actually have in the care of the elderly do not really have to go to work sadly because they are burdened by those who should not work in the care of the elderly. There are people, of course, who do not necessarily have the heart in the right place in relation to working with care and care. They must be helped to do something else in our society. There's probably other places they're doing better. It is not necessarily because they are bad people, it is just because they may be placed on the wrong shelf. And we're very concerned about that actually happening, so let's check out that example, and then we can turn this around later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174159	Yeah, let's do it. I have to practice what I preach, so that's of course something I'll check up on, double check up. Of course, I think I am right, but now I am completely uncertain when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl takes it up here today. Otherwise, I can of course welcome the fact that we have an agreement on the need to also look at the governance of the public sector and to look at how perhaps more rewards can be given to the skilled employees, the majority of whom are, and how more flexibility can be ensured in replacing them into the stumbled vessels.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174230	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174233	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I know that some of what the Liberal Alliance often listens to is business, and business calls for climate action. No later than this week, Information has brought a climate appeal signed by 139 prominent people from business, research, civil society and politics, and a few weeks ago, it was Danish Business that sought a CO2 so will the Liberal Alliance be involved in introducing a uniform, steadily increasing tax on all greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174325	Yes, we would like to participate in a green tax reform. Like all parties, we have ifs and mens and back and forth, and a few of them are relevant to mention here. Because I feel a bit that it really doesn't matter if Denmark reaches 68, 69 or 71 per cent CO2 It's a navel pill to think that this kind of detail is important. What is important is whether the way we do it in Denmark is something that can be used abroad and that in the long run contributes to global CO2 So if you set CO2 It has to be set at an appropriate level. If, at the same time, we do not ensure that taxes on labour, on investment and on businesses are reduced, then we will not be involved either, because we do not just want a green tax reform, which is a red tax reform. But the very basic idea of creating an increasing CO2 I also hope that the Radical Left is in agreement that this means that one hundred seventeen different climate action plans should not be drawn up for each sector. It is just as much a team of away-reform addressed to politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174436	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174437	I think it sounds very positive that there is a receipt for it. We would very much like to sign for that from the Radical Left. Some of what I would like to ask is something that could also ensure the calm of businesses, and that is if they know what they are going to do over a number of years. By 2030 it is 70% that you have to adapt to. But if, in 2025, one had perhaps a 50, 52 or 54 per cent target, then one could ensure peace for the companies by that is what they had to conform to. So will the Liberal Alliance also help to ensure peace on the short track until 2025 and also have ambitious milestones for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174517	No, this is where the agreement stops. Having these sub-targets can end up making the road to the 2030 target more expensive than if we don't have these sub-targets. We think that, as in so many other areas, we should have as much climate as possible for the money, and that is why we are sceptical about these sub-objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174542	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174546	Thank you. Genuine liberals value freedom, and I have always admired them for that. They stand firm on the rights of the individual, despise state supervision and fight against behavioral regulation. Unfortunately, our personal freedom and our privacy are under pressure. With technological developments, it is no longer for the state to monitor us and regulate our lives down to the last detail. For how systematic monitoring of citizens in the past was too complicated for it to be carried out by someone other than a state power, Google's, Facebooks and Amazon's monitoring of us in everyday life can easily compete with the Danish state. And with extremely targeted advertising based on detailed knowledge about us citizens, they can also influence our behavior to a very great extent. That's why I'd really just like to hear Mr. Alex Vanopslagh what the Liberal Alliance will do to ensure less behavior regulation and less monitoring of the individual from private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174649	I could, of course, swing up on the big liberal horse now and swing the liberal tab and say that private companies have the right to do whatever they want as long as they get the consent of the consumer and as long as we accept all sorts of things on our phone. But instead, I actually want to make that concession because it has to come sooner or later that I think it is something we are going to discuss in the coming years. This is a liberal dilemma, and it is not a problem-free one: the reverse of the coin in digitalisation is also the fact that there is a great deal of monitoring of citizens. And there we need to strike a balance between protecting citizens' legal certainty and the right to privacy, while at the same time guaranteeing companies' right to operate and also to obtain and use data from citizens. And that is a balance in which we must have freedom in mind and not paternalism in mind. But I cannot answer it in concrete terms; I must honestly admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174733	Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174737	Thank you. I am happy with that nuance, at least, because I think it is quite obvious that today we cannot simply opt out of private companies' supervision of one. If, for example, the Liberal Alliance... If you didn't want to be watched, you shouldn't use Facebook, Twitter and Google and stuff like that, and then it could be really hard to have a political party by 2020. But I would really like to hear: does the Liberal Alliance have any specific policy that ensures less private monitoring of citizens, i.e. less monitoring of citizens from private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174813	I would say that is the best question I have had tonight, because I have to answer: I do not actually know if we have, but I have to check that out. Good question, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174826	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174828	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur came among other things. MEPs call on the Commission to take steps to ensure that the EU's financial contribution to the implementation of the EU's financial contribution to the reconstruction of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is made available to the countries of Central and Eastern And the failure that we see among other things. We must respond to the elderly and not be allowed to continue to do so. Unfortunately, not only do we see a problem with management when it comes to abandoning the elderly, we see that this problem does not only arise, but that there are also problems with the sexism that exists in jobs and there have been several sectors where many women have now appeared, either with signature or with their history or otherwise, and have narrated the sexism that they are experiencing. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the Liberal Alliance is thinking of happening in relation to this huge problem that we have, and the pattern we are unfortunately seeing in our working lives and in many sectors, in relation to sexism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008174928	The experience I have is that there is a change in culture that is happening; there is a slippage in standards. In other words, there are some old standards that are being replaced by some new standards. I also think that there is a generation gap and that the generations are colliding. It's kind of my own thesis. But so, I think that what was perhaps an acceptable behavior for my parents' generation is acceptable and, in relation to their standards, innocent behaviour is not an innocent behavior for the rapporteur and my generation. And I believe that more and more companies, organisations, political parties and jobs in Danish society are becoming aware of this, and that is why we are seeing more and more people who, of their own free will and power, adapt to the changes that are in society and therefore incorporate sexism policies back and forth, and we are doing so on an ongoing basis here at Christiansborg and in the individual parties. So I have a bit of a feeling that I do not need to put forward a legislative proposal in this area, but I am pleased with the development of culture in Denmark in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175027	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175029	I agree with the rapporteur that there is a change in culture and that it is a good thing, especially that we support each other when it comes to rejecting it and when there is a change in culture. But in relation to the fact that it is generations that are meeting, I would say that there are people who have stood up, for example. a woman in 3F's trade paper, which one must say belongs to one of the generations before the rapporteur and myself, who tells of some fairly serious violations that have occurred and pressures in relation to sexual abuse and other things. And that is why I do not think it is possible to avoid the need for us to ensure that the employer has an indirect responsibility: an indirect objective employer responsibility, in which the employer has to show that some steps have actually been taken to ensure that this does not happen. It must ensure that anyone who has experienced sexism and abuse knows where to go and that sort of thing. What does the rapporteur think about doing this, that is not just leaving it up to a change in culture, but actually saying: hey, employers, you also have a responsibility to ensure that the working environment is in order, and this is quite an important part of the working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175142	Yes, thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175143	But this is how bureaucracy arises, namely that you have good intentions. And this is a good intention, but now they need to have sexism bureaucracy in nursing homes, in day care institutions, in individual primary schools and, of course, in all private companies too. It doesn't matter, because they're private. And it's hard for me to stand and say that I don't want to, because I really like the intention; that's a good idea. But that is how bureaucracy arises. And that's why I'm gonna take my own medicine and say, "No."
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175210	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175212	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your speech, and thank you very much to the Liberal Alliance for supporting the New Citizens' proposal for a childcare allowance which we dealt with here in the Parliamentary Chamber back in June. Unfortunately, this was not adopted. Can the rapporteur say a little about the importance of giving families much greater flexibility in everyday life? And does the rapporteur not think that it is a good civil policy for families to be allowed to decide much more for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175251	I think I will quote a subset of my speech from earlier, but without irony. For that is welfare, that is, what the questioner is talking about hooray! And then I think I'll settle for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175306	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175307	Of course, I very much agree with and hurry for that, I almost said. I was also very pleased when I read a few weeks ago the Liberal Alliance's new family play, which will give families who want to take care of their own child at home a better chance of doing so. Danish crèches have an incredibly boring European record in being the most in institution. In New Citizens, we believe it is important that we make it easier for families to adapt so that they do not necessarily have to run around on the Social Democratic hamster wheel. Can we not together try to make it a blue project to strengthen the Danish families?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175352	I certainly think we should, and I also hope that we can get the Left and the Conservatives on board. Then all we need is an early parliamentary election, a change of government and a blue majority, and then we are well on our way. But at least we've started our journey today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175407	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175409	Tax relief, tax relief, tax relief, sounds echoed by the last liberals. For everyone is his own lucky blacksmith until the crisis strikes. Isn't that right? Because when the crisis hits, you need the community. Down here in front of the Ministry of Industry, the companies were queuing. You had to buy distance bands that you use in supermarkets to make sure they didn't infect each other. Then all the employers were in line, because then they would like to be on public support. And I suppose they did, because at the same time as the community helped the employers, we held our hands under Danish jobs. How do we manage when we get into a crisis? And the help was near because the community was ready. But how could it be possible if we did not have the welfare society, the community and the tax payments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175502	Tax increases, tax increases, tax increases, the country's last old socialists, because no one can be their own lucky blacksmith, I will start by replying to Mr. Karsten Hønge on his little, fine rhyme. I actually think that Mr. Karsten Hønge has a point. For I have also sometimes thought: It was quite a whining and pitiful cry, I have seen from the Danish business community lately, that now they will also be packed into the welfare state's services. There is, however, a crucial and very important difference, and it is this that we have decided politically that some companies should be forced to shut down, and we are imposing restrictions on them on how they must conduct their business and earn their money, and in that light it is fair that they should be compensated, especially when the right to compensation has been removed in the event of forced closure. That difference I think is very important and makes it impossible to compare it with all sorts of other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175605	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175606	I wonder if there is the last steel-set and galvanized liberal out there. At least now we can see that in the corona crisis we managed to pull Denmark through because we are based on a welfare society and because we have a regulated, organised and civilised labour market. As many as seven tripartite agreements have come into existence in the last six months. Where would we be if we did not have employees who were organized in powerful and independent trade unions? And where would we be if employers couldn't match it through their organizations? Is it not precisely because we have the organised labour market, which is the foundation of the welfare society, that we have actually managed to pull ourselves through this health crisis together?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175652	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175654	I don't know if I've had the answer to that before. It is quite wrong to say that it is high taxes and the Danish welfare state that have held hands under the Danish jobs. In other words, the aid packages are not financed through high taxes, the aid packages are financed through borrowing. Loans can be taken by any nation if they have sound public finances. Denmark has sound public finances because we have made a large number of reforms, which the SF has shouted and screamed about were unreasonable, but these are the ones that are now being favoured by having a good room for manoeuvre, which makes it possible to borrow some money and then play great welfareguards to various companies. So it is not the Danish welfare society that can be thanked for borrowing money. These are sound public finances, good civil reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175734	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175737	Thank you. I would like to return a little to my good colleague Victoria Velasquez. The question that Mrs Victoria Velasquez raised earlier was actually about how we are actually acting on the sexism that women are primarily dealing with, including some men, but mainly women are experiencing not only in Danish politics or the media world, but in ordinary jobs. What I just thought I heard, sir. Alex Vanopslagh says that if you started looking at how employers could have a greater responsibility for getting rid of sexism in the individual workplace, it would be the same as bureaucracy. And it just got me to the key here, because then we're back by saying we shouldn't do anything, right? Is that what the Liberal Alliance says? So, how do we act politically? The whole point here is that we don't just think it would be a bad idea to stand and applaud and praise and say how brave it is that they stand out individually or in a group. We also need to change some structures, so why not tell an employer whose female employees experience sexism: here you have a great responsibility to change culture as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008175906-2	But that is easy to say without making legislation about it, without imposing a new sexism bureaucracy in Danish companies and in Danish workplaces, because it ends up in bureaucracy. Of course it does, because then they have to write down politics and yours and that, and what do I know, and secure themselves in the head and the butt so they can say: Our butt is free, it is the fault of others. After all, we can change things in this society by taking responsibility for our own jobs, for our own parties, for the Folketing and by taking the discussions in public, which not only Christiansborg has done, but as many other Danes have done in recent months. And it's moving something to take these discussions... it's changing something. It changes something in culture. Not to mess up anything, but just in the last 24 hours, I think we've seen a break in Danish politics compared to what you would normally accept in relation to that type of behavior. So I feel a bit like this: something is happening, even if we have not tabled a single bill at Christiansborg. And that is, I do not want to say a social sickness, but an unfortunate tendency that we always believe that we can legislate out of things to show action, because there is always a reverse of the medal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008180005	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008180006	Well, I don't think we should legislate out of everything either, but I think it might be just as privileged to stand in here among some of the people who have the most resources, both financially and socially, and you take a fight, yes, but do it after really, very many years of sick culture and say: Something happens. What is happening in ordinary jobs? So, excuse me, do you think that what has happened in the last 24 hours changes anything for the women servants who every day put up with slummy remarks and behavior? Well, that doesn't change anything. So if that is not the case and that is my question, how do we take any political action that actually helps those people? Or are we just gonna sit down and say that you're gonna have to mess with it yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008180056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008180057	We are doing this by taking the lead in the good example, by continuing to take the discussion in public and continuing to insist that there are some things that need to be better. I know that there is a great ideological difference here, a great ideological divide, between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, but we are not resorting to legislation as the first step. There is a positive development going on, which is why I do not see much need for legislation. It is clear that if you look at the specific legislative proposal and you can see that it does not mean much in terms of bureaucracy and that it does not have the major negative consequences, then surely we should be pragmatic and consider it. But I am sceptical about this constantly saying that we must show political action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008180133	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This means that we can now take a break for dinner until 8 a.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008190014	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue the debate, here after the break, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008190024	Thank you, President. If I am to pick up on a long day's debate here in Parliament, one thing is quite clear to me: when it comes to achieving the sustainable transformation, the government's chain has jumped off completely. In the opening speech on Tuesday, the Prime Minister did not even mention the possibility of introducing a climate tax. Her only real bid to reduce CO2 is not enough. In her speech she also said that we have already saved a quarter of the CO2 it sounded like the Prime Minister thinks that the climate plan is going very well. But for the alternative, it sounded like she's very behind. Well, we are not alone: virtually everyone who cares about the climate agrees. This applies to many Danes, scientists and interest groups. But this also applies to the Danish youth, which we are completely failing. 139 businessmen, researchers and politicians are trying to shout the Prime Minister into a clear climate appeal in Information, including former climate commissioner Connie Hedegaard and Grundfos' CEO Mads Nipper. Last Tuesday they wrote, among other things. in the newspaper Information: The Government's current Climate Programme 2020 does not indicate any concrete new initiatives with quantified CO2 They are backed by the Green Student Movement on Facebook: Now the Social Democratic Party breaks their parliamentary foundations and commits lawbreaks to steer around the necessary radical climate action, they write. Those are hard words. But we must listen extra to our youth. It is their future that we will take pledges if we do not resolve the climate crisis. It is also Greenpeace and the Council for Green Conversion, the Grandparents' Climate Action, Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, the World Nature Fund, the climate movement that protests. Even the government's own climate advisor, the Climate Council, is deeply disappointed by the government's climate bell. So dear Minister of Finance and Prime Minister: we have a problem. These people know something about the climate. They're not impressed with your plan. Denmark got the world's most ambitious climate law in the spring, and now you just pickle it. The question is: can future negotiations in particular in transport and agriculture, together with a green tax reform, ensure the remaining reduction in CO2 or should we just hope for technological climate miracles at the last minute?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008190307	Unfortunately, I have to interrupt because I see that the Prime Minister is not in the Chamber. It's the Prime Minister now, and that's why we can continue. Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008190318	The only question is: can the forthcoming negotiations in the fields of transport and agriculture, especially on them, together with a green tax reform ensure the remaining reductions in CO2 the alternative is in no doubt: we need clear solutions now. It was we who introduced the target of CO2 by 2030. We would like to see the target as high as 80%. It was we who had partial targets introduced to ensure continuity of the process and we want a partial target of 60%. CO 2 In the alternative, we wonder. Why will the government not do what it needs to do to ensure the necessary CO2 The government is putting the problems ahead and hoping that a solution will be found tomorrow. And is it because the government is afraid to tell the Danes about the big changes that are going to happen in our lives? The truth is clear. Climate and extreme weather cause millions of people to flee every year. Previous year 16 million people were driven on the run by climate and extreme weather. Last year it was 24 million. And according to the World Bank, over 140 million refugees may be on the run because of global climate problems by 2050. But the world doesn't need more refugees. In the alternative, we are not afraid to say what it is. We dare tell the Danes what it takes. We will create a green superministerium for the sustainable transition. We must stop all supply rounds of gas and oil in the North Sea and phase out all extraction as soon as possible. We must set up ten new offshore wind farms up to 2030. It's one a year. Then we must support the development of wave energy. The technology's almost ready. From next year we should start phasing out fossil-powered cars, and by 2020 we want them completely away from, for example. The streets of Copenhagen. We need to rebuild the energy system so that we get more heat pumps and better energy storage, because Denmark must be completely fossil-free by 2035. We need to convert production, in other words convert agriculture from animal to more plant-based production. We must buy farmland and convert it to wild nature. And then we need a green tax reform with a CO2 It is incredibly important that citizens with the lowest incomes do not finance most of the green transition. It is the wealthy people in our country who emit by far the most CO2 they have the greatest consumption. That is why we need to set up the tax system to ensure that those who eat the most meat fly the most and use the most CO2 We also need to ensure security in the outermost regions of our country, where many citizens depend on the car. It must be more expensive to drive by car in cities close to public transport and cheaper in the countryside far from public transport. These are some of the points in the Alternative's plan to reduce CO2 But green policy is not climate policy alone, it is also biodiversity, and the government is not only slowing down in the climate area, it has almost come to a halt in terms of creating more free, wild and diverse nature in Denmark. Unfortunately, however, we are the country in Europe with the lowest natural state, which shows the EU's calculations. About 60%. of Denmark's land is covered by agriculture. 80% of the production from there we use to put in animals. So we have destroyed almost all our wild nature to produce meat, and meat production emits very, very large amounts of CO2 That is what we call in the alternative a lose-lose situation. According to the World Wildlife Fund, barely 1%. of our nature on land protected, and at sea it is less than 2%. That's far too little. But the government's reaction is to wait. This is to postpone the great biodiversity plan promised in the understanding paper. After all, we were summoned for biodiversity negotiations and welcomed our wishes. Among other things, we are missing. a biodiversity law and a revision of the Forest Act. We will have defined real protection targets for nature in Denmark only in order to promote biodiversity. The alternative will have 105,000 hectares of state forest transformed into wild nature. We have designated and named 65,000 ha of state forest, which we can make wild nature by 2030. That's a really good start. We want the Øresund, which is a rare gem of biodiversity, because it is not allowed to demersal trawl there, totally protected. It has to be the first of eight marine national parks. Yes, we had a lot of wishes in the bag, but when we got to the negotiations, there was a lousy 50 million. kr. to negotiate in the Finance Act. That's embarrassing. Fortunately, there were several parties that set their feet. That is why we have now finally started a longer process of negotiation. We hope for a large overall plan for Danish nature both at land and at sea, but it is uphill when the Minister of Finance will not spend money on it, both in terms of climate and nature. And he makes it difficult for his ministers. SF, Radicals and Enhedslisten have been out threatening climate choices in the last days. Are you serious, I ask? The government does black politics, and the support parties blow up, and then you get to move the government a little bit, and then it ends up with a soft middle product. It's just happened again. The Prime Minister comes in his opening speech with a pool of 2 billion. kr. a year until 2025, which will make the supporting parties comply. And lure me if it doesn't work out, even though of course there's gonna be a lot of theater order. When I read the understanding paper, it's actually easy to understand. There is much to be done, but it is obviously more difficult for the government and its support parties to understand the understanding paper. Apparently, they understand something different. And what's the point of an understanding paper if you don't understand the same thing? Well, the understanding paper is the heartblood of the government itself. My question to the support parties is: how long will you keep threatening elections without doing anything about it? When's enough? However, give the government a deadline in relation to climate, nature and environment, for example. in relation to the financial law negotiations, and if the government does not deliver, it is because it does not want to. Then it has familiar color, and then it is time for a real climate choice. Among the voters, the green agenda is the most important. So let them choose the politicians for the Folketing, who the voters think are best suited to saving climate and biodiversity. There's plenty of hope. We can do lots of things. We still have an opportunity to resolve it, but without political will, hope goes away. Then we end up with far too high temperature increases that destroy the future of future generations. That is why we must act now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191040	Thank you. Is there a proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191046	Yes, there is a proposal for adoption. The alternative has made its own proposal for adoption because we do not think there is enough gunpowder in the proposals that have been presented to us. These are the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government is dragging Denmark in a slow direction in relation to climate action. Globally, we see several temperature records, floods and other natural disasters related to climate change. The Danish Parliament notes that with the government's latest climate plan, we still have to see initiatives that can pave the way to the agreed targets for 70%. greenhouse gas reduction by 2030. The Folketing urges the government to work for more ambitious green tax reforms focusing on significantly higher CO2 Parliament expresses concern about the government's plans to introduce stricter rules for certain groups in our society. The Folketing is concerned about the rhetoric and the social model presented by the government when they prevent not only individuals but whole groups from staying in certain places for longer periods and will make it easier to put people from home and home. Parliament calls on the government to cancel its political austerity in this area, which contributes to increased discrimination and inequality in society. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 -
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191201	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. The first to a brief remark is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191208	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl for the speech. Earlier today, the Alternative rapporteur asked Sophie Løhde from the Left whether the Left could support the imposition of levies on meat. And, of course, we cannot. But I would really like to turn this issue around a little and like to give it a new focus and ask the alternative whether the alternative will help to ensure that it will not be more expensive to operate in this country and that it will not be more expensive in relation to entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191255	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191255-2	Not immediately, as a starting point. In other words, the companies which pollute a lot, the companies which emit a lot of CO2 we would like to impose taxes on them. However, those companies that care about sustainable conversion and make a huge effort to derive less CO2 so we want a charging system where it becomes harder to do the wrong and easier to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191327	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191327-2	Now I have read a little on the Alternative's website, and I understand there that the Alternative would actually like to turn the 21st century into an entrepreneurial century. That is why I would like to ask a little more about it. What if there are to be tax increases, even in relation to entrepreneurship, which the government is proposing? How does the alternative view it? For then there is a danger that the entrepreneurs, whom the alternative otherwise describes should rather blossom, will, frankly, never blossom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191404	The green growth layer must be supported, green entrepreneurs must be supported. We will, for example: have reduced the capital requirement for equity companies. It has to be the case that as a green entrepreneur, when you take on the green transition and take care of your CO2 so in the alternative, we would be very, very happy to support the green entrepreneurs. And it is incredibly important that small urban businesses, medium-sized enterprises and small businesses very, very soon find out how to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191441	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191443	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. We have noted that the alternative works with three bottom lines: a green bottom line, a social bottom line and an economic bottom line. The Corona crisis has brought Denmark into an economic crisis, and that is why I am interested in hearing what the success criteria of the alternative are on the economic bottom line. How, if it's up to the alternative, will you get Denmark out of this economic crisis, measured on the bottom line of the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191523	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191523-2	It is, for example, that we... support the companies that are at their knees due to the corona crisis. Well, we've been afraid of losing a whole generation of entrepreneurs. I do not think it has been so bad, but I am afraid that there are some companies and entrepreneurs that are totally at their knees, and also some that have gone bankrupt. We could do that, for example. We would like to draw up a recovery plan for the green ones in particular. And then, of course, a war fund has been adopted, and it is clear that it can be used for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191606	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191607	I have also been looking at the Alternative's website, and it says in relation to the economic bottom line that it is about employment, it is about financial stability, and it is about public budgets in long-term balance. That is why I want to hear the alternative, which proposals the alternative has for action in those areas to the economic bottom line to bring Denmark out of the economic crisis as a result of the current corona situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191641	Well, I think that's exactly what I said. I also think it would benefit the economic bottom line to make a very, very green reboot. So there are some of the black habits we have adopted here in society that we can actually dismantle now. So to make a green reboot where we try to make less of the black, as we have done for the time being, and to bet very powerfully on the green growth layers I think would be wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191718	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191719	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. After all, it is no secret that we are very much in agreement that we should have a green restart, and I can hardly wait for the negotiations on entrepreneurship to start, so that we can get the fine words about supporting green entrepreneurship to hopefully become a reality. I am very pleased with the cooperation that I have with the rapporteur in other contexts, also with regard to the abolition of the mutual dependent and in relation to many of the social parts. There is, in fact, one thing that lies right in between and that I would like to hear from the rapporteur, and this is about those who are not self-employed voluntarily, not voluntary entrepreneurs. Hey, what's that? Well, here I am thinking of arms and legs companies... those situations where the employer, in order not to have to pay sick days, did not have to pay holiday money, pension and all these things pressure employees to enter as fake self-employed, as we call them. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should try to see that we are simply setting up a group of experts looking at the whole area. We have also seen how difficult it has been to help these groups during the corona crisis. So we look all around and look at what we can do to stop this pressure on these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191828	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191829	That is what is sometimes referred to as the 'precariat', i.e. people who can be casual workers, freelancers who work from job to job and who have no rights, who do not come under any agreement and who live a rightsless life, as I said, from job to job. I mean, I think we have to set up the system in such a way that those people can come to an agreement. We have to open up the collective bargaining system, also because they have a lot of problems with the tax administration. They hate those watch numbers and cvr numbers, where it's actually almost people who get fired from companies and then get rehired as self-employed because it's actually cheaper. So we really, really want to look at how to solve it. In the alternative, we really believe that the right solution would be a citizen's salary, because then we will have a guarantee of those people at any time. So, in relation to the precariat in particular, civil pay is, in fact, the structural change that could seriously solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191935	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008191936	I think that is an important political input. We agreed that we should help them, for example. 0 hours contracts, and even if we had adopted them in an agreement, even to this day there has been no financial support for this group, and this certainly shows quite clearly that the precracy, the fake self-employed, we can call it many things • are some of those who are in a really difficult and vulnerable situation, who cannot get into the cash benefits system and who are thus trapped. I think that is a very important task to resolve. When we are going to round off, I think it is important to do it with a bold line under the green, so I would like to hear the rapporteur what you would like to do more concretely with regard to greenery and entrepreneurship, in addition to this one with capital requirements that sound good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192015	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192016	Well, there's giving extra support to sustainable entrepreneurship. Well, I'm a businessman myself, and I almost wish I were an entrepreneur in these times. Then I would follow developments in the climate negotiations incredibly closely, because I think there are plenty of opportunities for innovation and entrepreneurship. After all, we must set the framework as Parliament, a good, clear framework, and within them it is very, very much the business community's task to solve many of the tasks of sustainable change. It's not supposed to be such a quick fix, so we're free of climate tax, right? But we need to be clear about that framework so that entrepreneurs know what they have to do with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192059	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192059-2	Thank you. One of the things that has been very firm in the alternative in the past was a good, large meat tax. Then the question is just how big it should be, or whether the alternative has also begun to waver and say that it may not be quite as smart. So, according to the alternative, what is the level of the meat levy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192123	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192124	I think that the things that are being discussed now with regard to a CO2 of DKK 1 500. per It is even more interesting, especially if it is the case that you can make a tax where the money goes back to the people. That is, if you are a consumer of CO2 seductive goods, travel, meat, a lot of gasoline, then you pay more, but we all get the money back. It's kind of next level, next version of meat tax and aviation tax etc. So I actually think that's the level we're going to talk about now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192204	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192205	There was once in computer language something called circle function. It was if it started running around and around without any result coming out of it. It seems the answer like to leave, so there wasn't really anything on it. But then let me put it another way. In the past it was also the case in the Alternative that there should be no livestock production at all anymore in Denmark. What is really up and down on that today in the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192231	Well, we need to have limited meat production, but we want to help farmers to get into organic production and more plant-based production. It shouldn't be plants to put in animals. It must be plants that we humans can eat, because we can actually tolerate them. But what the rapporteur is talking about is also what I asked the Left earlier today. And the Left said they wanted a climate tax. What I couldn't understand was that it suggested that you wouldn't charge the goods that actually emit a lot of CO2 I've asked further on Twitter and still didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192304	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192306	Thank you very much, and thank you very much, sir. Torsten Gejl for the very passionate speech. I heard a little about the transport in Denmark and what can be done there, but I would like to hear Torsten Gejl's thoughts about the heavy transport, i.e. the truck transport. What does the alternative mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192325	We have to get to electricity as much as we can and on rail transport. There are all kinds of solutions that do not include fossil energy. There's plenty to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192338	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192339	Now it is up to you to pull a truck of 46 tonnes through Denmark on electricity. After all, biogas and hydrogen are some of the possibilities. Will Mr. Torsten Gejl backs up the fact that you can put the tax on biogas and hydrogen trucks at the same level as a diesel truck, so we can switch these 14,000 trucks, which give about the same CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192407	There may be some temporary solutions of this kind. I think that in the long term it is exciting to get heavy transport onto trains, but I actually also imagine that by means of electricity we will be able to pull much, much more than we think, with a future technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192422	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192423	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, which dealt with the very important issue of the climate. There is much that we in the Left do not agree with the alternative in, even when it comes to questions about how best to solve the climate challenges. However, I think we can agree that we have a very foot-to-mouth government when it comes to the climate, which is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is okay that it has taken so long for the government to start the climate negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192454	It was a rhetorical question. We think it's terrible that it's taken so long. In other words, we have proposed in this Chamber a meat levy with social compensation. We could have got started, we could have already introduced an air tax. There are many things we could have done. I don't know why it hasn't worked out. So that we are where we are going to talk about perhaps having some technology fix to solve this at the last hour, I think is a sign that we are far too late.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192526	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192527	Fortunately, rhetorical questions can be asked in this Chamber. And I note that, fortunately, there is something on which we agree with the alternative. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur what the alternative thinks the alternative can do or what the alternative will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192552	Yes, you have to push, and you have to come up with good ideas from everything from technical solutions to funding. We have come up with an idea for funding through, for example. green bonds. In the Netherlands, 66 billion were collected. kr. on a day for climate solutions via green bonds. We're going to need a lot more heat pumps, and we're going to need wave energy. There have been wave energy experiments in Denmark, which are incredibly interesting, but they have not moved on. Wave energy can be a very solid addition to electricity, for there are always waves while the wind comes in phases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192634	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192635	I just love that we talk entrepreneurship, and I have also heard more people from the platform celebrate entrepreneurship and even say that they love entrepreneurship. I am also a little after that once in a while, because it sounds as if we are going to have some green entrepreneurship, but in parallel with that there are also some things that prevent entrepreneurship in the legislation we have. Because with some of the wishes of the government right now to increase the share income tax and to make a new stock tax, and as the tax minister would like to change the investment for retirement pensions in unlisted shares and even the purchase wants us to sell them before the summer break, these are some things that go in the completely opposite direction of celebrating entrepreneurship and ensuring that we actually get a stock culture and that people want to invest in green entrepreneurship. Where does the alternative stand in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192726	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192728	In other words, when companies get so big that we are going to talk about public limited companies, I find it rare that this is entrepreneurship anymore. Then it starts running into some very, very large sums. We are more interested in this, for example. to lower the capital requirement so that it is easier to start small cooperatives. We'd like that down from $40,000. for 8,000 kroner. It is actually not that difficult to implement in Denmark. In the time I've been up here, I could actually have started a company and got me a watch number. etc. But for example... is 80%. For two years, you will be able to afford the rent, one of our proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192806	Mona Juul, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192806-2	That sounds good to me. In other words, the alternative will help to provide a better and smaller share capital for the equity companies, when we will be negotiating entrepreneurship here in a moment, where we would very much like to see the capital requirement lowered. I am also listening to the fact that the alternative at all would like to take part in looking at the conditions for a culture of independence and entrepreneurship. Is that correct? Because then we're gonna go to the macros in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192836	That's right, and I'm on it to go to the macrons.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192840	I do not see anyone else asking for a brief comment. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Torsten Gejl, and then we welcome Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008192859	Thank you very much for the floor. I kind of started the day trying to make a completely different speech from the one I'm gonna be giving today. So even though it's been a really long day, I hope you will listen, and then Sjúrður Skaale will probably come on and tell you something really fun a little later. The self-government was meant to be a cooperative project, but it sometimes ends up as a battleground. Both Greenlandic and Danish politicians have a responsibility here. Political opponents in Greenland talk about political autonomy as if it were happening tomorrow. That's not gonna happen. And, by the way, if we wanted to, we could just do it. Although it has its shortcomings, I actively choose self-government and I would like to cooperate. I would like to fight to improve self-government and the Kingdom community that we have today. It must be in eternal development and, above all, it is important that we develop Greenlandic society. As part of our autonomy, Greenland receives a block grant from Denmark each year. The economic dependence is worn out by Greenland's self-image and a vision of a more autonomous country. It is crucial that we at home in Greenland get into working clothes in order to strengthen our economy, and there is also a need for a massive increase in welfare and a clear vision for Greenland's future. Therefore, I would like to share my vision for Greenland today, including how we should work with Denmark. Greenland is a proud fishing nation and we are good at it. We should not be a nation of raw materials or tourism; it should be an important additional resource for fisheries, and it should help to consolidate Greenland's economy, not be the primary source of income. One could imagine that if there were a sea of mines in Greenland or mass tourism it wouldn't be sustainable, it wouldn't be green, but it might be so if we manage it properly. Greenland must therefore develop its fisheries and do more of what we are good at, because we need a stronger economy in Greenland. Here is a good cooperation with Denmark important. And here I would like to highlight the good cooperation between the Growth Fund and Green Adventure, and this is quite an overlooked sunshine story that I would like to tell you about. The government set aside 200 million a few years ago. kr., and the Naala Suisut also placed some money. It was based on a brilliant principle of balanced equal worth, because of course Greenland itself must contribute to Greenland's development, so that it does not become a sleeping pillow that Denmark pays. The Greenland pension fund SISA spat 100 million. kr. in the cooperation, and in concrete terms this has meant that the Greenlandic family-owned moving company Usisaat was added 20 million. kr. from this pool, which actually grew to 100 million. kr. supplemented by private investment and loans. In other words, we create the professionalisation and development of Greenlandic companies, and cooperation between the government and the Naalaksuisut can quickly help attract these investments from outside the private sector and the loans needed to boost Greenland's business community. The 2 million. kr. can actually grow to as much as 1 billion. kr. We find that interesting. Together with education, we believe that business development is absolutely central to strengthening Greenlandic society. This benefits both Greenland's business community, Greenland's economy and, therefore, Greenland's well-being in Greenland. Personally, I also believe that we should be in fewer places than the almost 80 settlements that we have today in Greenland. Cities need to be developed. Active settlements must be preserved and other settlements naturally closed down. Here we must help to ensure that people are helped into the cities in a gentle way, in a wise way, and in return we must ensure and promise better welfare. Today, for example, we are missing. Municipalists in six settlements despite a long-standing effort here in the Danish Parliament. It is thought-provoking, especially when the only requirement in this way is purely criminal record. The consequence is anarchy and lawlessness when we do not have the law's long arm out in the settlements. This is also about settlements with a history of many attacks on children. We cannot be familiar with that. That is why I am making this very courageous proposal, because I believe that Naala Suisut should rethink our settlement pattern and see it as a way to improve welfare. I know it is a hot potato to take up here in the Folketing, and I also think it is a debate that should be taken at home in Greenland. But I think it is important to take up so that the many tasks that the state also solves in Greenland can be solved better than by the way they are solved today. My mother herself grew up in a village in Arsuk, South Greenland, and she is understandably very proud of it. My mom grew up picking up water and picking up coal when she was a kid. I have never known anything but to open the faucet and press a button on the oven when it should be turned on. My generation and those who come after us are privileged in my eyes. But these privileges do not apply everywhere in Greenland. My great-grandmother died of cancer in the very same settlement many years later without being seen by a long time. And I think it is unworthy that health services in Greenland fall and fall, and especially out in the settlements where they are more vulnerable. The same applies to social policy, where Naala Suisut has openly acknowledged a lack of effort and ended up asking for help from Denmark. As it is now, we need cooperation with Denmark, but my vision is that in the future we should be a model for creating innovative social solutions for the most vulnerable children in Greenland. To this end, I believe that there is a need for targeted early efforts to crack the basket. I therefore believe that the solution to better welfare in Greenland is that we gather together in fewer places and that we generally become more people in Greenland. Therefore, we have also fought for a fixed track scheme so that well-trained workers can move to Greenland more easily, of course, while educating our own. Of course, when we grow up and gather together in the larger cities, housing policy must also keep up. Today, we are building in the towns where you become fewer inhabitants, while Nuuk, our capital, is starving because of housing policy in the Naala Suisut. I have said this before: in the cities where there is work, there are no dwellings, and in the settlements where there are housing, there is no work. It is wrong and we simply have to change that. It takes courage, it takes courage from me, it takes courage from the Naala Suisut back home, it takes political courage. And it also requires national planning, which looks forward to more than one parliamentary term. I think you can do it wisely and gently, with respect for people's wishes, and I think it is actually irresponsible not to dare to talk about our settlement pattern in Greenland, 5, 10 or 15 years into the future. Through what is really only a lifetime, Greenland has undergone a rapid development. Many things have succeeded, but developments have also been flawed and have been sidetracked. Political scandals of nepotism, corruption and poor judgment in Naala Suisut are queuing in Greenlandic politics these days. Too many citizens' everyday lives have become too harsh, inequality has increased and we have neglected important agendas because they are hard to talk about. Nearly 70 years ago, Greenland politician Mr. Augo Lynge to the first assembly of the Greenland National Council. One of his main messages was that Greenland cannot do without Denmark and that Denmark cannot do without Greenland. Those words, I think, are still valid. Now we're in 2020. I believe that the politicians on our shoulders had greater hopes of a higher level of development in Greenlandic society, and I also believe that they would have had higher expectations of the political leadership of Greenland. Later this year there will be a historical analysis of the course around the experimental children and also a long-awaited and well-deserved apology. From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we call for the President of the Naala Suisut and the Prime Minister to sit down together and agree on what kind of cuts in history we need to correct. In addition, I think it is important that we look forward. I think it is thought-provoking that it is a group of students from Marselisborg Gymnasium who are looking for more knowledge about Greenland. I think it would be refreshing if we saw many more travel programmes, food programmes, housing programmes about Greenland, which also tells about the huge potential and all the good things we have to offer; or that the government took the initiative for a rich community pool under the Danish Film Institute, so that we could watch films both by Greenlanders and Greenlanders via films and pictures. We have a lot of talented people in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008193923	Thank you. Then there are brief comments, and the first is from Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008193929	Thank you very much for your speech and thank you very much for the tireless efforts the rapporteur makes every day in his work to improve conditions in Greenland. The rapporteur has recently said that the government's cooperation with Naala Suisut on vulnerable children has some shortcomings and hits a little wrong, among other things. in relation to the fact that there is not enough focus on prevention. Could you try to elaborate a little more on how you feel we could do better in this collaboration?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194007	Be careful with the direct indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194011	Thank you very much for the question. It's a heart case. First of all, I would like to say that to comply with the legislation is in fact one of the initiatives that the initiatives are trying to draw attention to. They clearly point out that what Denmark goes in and assumes responsibility for is actually Greenland's responsibility. I believe we have to make an effort from 0 to 2 years, otherwise we will always be at the back of the social field. I believe that we must rethink our social policy. I have often seen and I have also been employed in the social services in Greenland that we placed children when they were 8 years old. Then they have typically gone 8 years in some kind of neglect before they have been helped. So today we have a very late effort which I also think is somehow reflected in the social policy we are pursuing and which really needs to be rethought and rethought. And there I think the early effort is absolutely central.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194107	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194108	Thank you so much. Following on from that debate, does the rapporteur think that we in Denmark should be more in favour of making demands when we form part of such cooperation, so that we have a greater degree of certainty as to how the money is spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194132	Thank you. 80 million kr. is in my view a lot of money. That's what I'm thinking, too. It's in a Danish context. That is why I think it is important to have a watchful eye on that money, and I also know that the Minister for Social Affairs is following this matter on a regular basis. However, I would like to see more focus on early action and prevention. That could be what you had to work together around after 2023, when the money expires, and then look at how to turn the situation over rather than just do some fire-fighting, as you do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194201	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194203	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. Now many of the challenges we are talking about here in the Danish Parliament are addressed to Greenland internally, as the rapporteur has said. I also think that this is a very good starting point for the rapporteur when she says that Greenland needs Denmark and Denmark needs Greenland. And that is a truth, because we are now bound as closely together as we are. My question to the rapporteur is: how does the rapporteur see that the Kingdom community can help to support the solution to some of the challenges that then lie in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194244	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194245	Thank you very much. My point is that things are connected. You can't see things in isolation. Things have merged to this day. In order to lift the justice area properly in Greenland I have repeatedly said that we have 34 times as much personal crime, that is. violence, rape and sexual abuse of children in Greenland, compared to Denmark, and I think that is a violent figure • one should not only talk about social policy and housing policy or just about justice and social affairs. Things are connected. Children's psychiatry, for example, I know. There is a great deal of lag in Greenland, and it will also be a prerequisite for the government's efforts with the 80 million. kr. It's gonna be a success. So I think it is important to keep up with what is going on in Greenlandic society and also to look at the other challenges and solutions that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194338	Kasper Roug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194340	Thank you. Well we are very happy to look at Greenlandic society, we are very happy to keep an eye on what is happening, and we are also very happy to help. But how does the rapporteur think that we can best support it? It's true that it's connected. That is what we agree on. The rapporteur is doing a great deal of work at home in Greenland too, so how can we best support this? I do not think the rapporteur really talks about how best to back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194412	The good news is that we are in negotiations and we didn't do that a few years ago, and I am very proud of that, because some footprints are set which will benefit Greenland, even when I'm not even in Parliament anymore. That's where you get results. So there we are pointing out a great many things in the social field, in the area of justice and in a large number of other areas. I would like something more to be done to provide knowledge, for example. for young people about Greenland. I would like to see Greenlanders thought in Denmark as a kind of minority and in this way also as a way of ensuring that we get rid of this misrepresentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194452	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194453	Thank you to the rapporteur for an exciting speech. A bill has just been sent for a consent law in consultation, that is, that intercourse can only take place when the desire is mutual and both parties are involved. However, as is the case with such legislation, it also says that it does not apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands because of the competences given there. That is why I would like to know how the rapporteur sees whether something similar could be done in Greenland in relation to the Greenlandic criminal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194532	Thank you very much. In fact, while there was a press conference where people were out to tell that there was to be a consent law, I chose to write to our minister, Naalakkersuisoq, for example. the social area that I thought it would be a very good idea if Greenland also acceded to this consent law. I wrote her an open letter, and she actually chose to say: Yes, Greenland would like that. So I think it's on her table and on the Minister of Justice's table, but it's coming in Greenland, because we've been aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194605	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194605-2	I think that sounds really exciting. This is something that can really move fence posts and create history, also in Greenland, because it is really a significant change that has happened in this regard. After all, we have been behind for far too long in relation to the speeches we have had in the past about the sexual violations which, unfortunately, are taking place too much in Greenland and which we both agree are a challenge. So thank you for the work that has been done in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194629	Thank you very much. Another point that could be pointed out in Greenland in relation to victims of rape is victim advice. We don't have that today. In relation to better compensation for, or at least advice for, children, we also point to children's aides. It would be very good for the children to have a spokesperson and someone who, like, guided them through a trial, because they are entering a completely foreign adult world. Video interviews typically take place in a dark gym where they talk to police officers and there is no follow-up. We would really like to see some special child-friendly rooms in which these video interviews were conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194705	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194706	Thank you to Inuit Ataqatigiit and in particular to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a very good cooperation and for being this strong voice from modern Greenland that will continue. Also recognition and respect for the ability to rise above the ditches of low nationalism and populism, which are also in Greenlandic politics. What I want to ask specifically is the prospects for cooperation between Denmark and Greenland on education. There are some educational challenges in Greenland where things are going better, and I would also like to acknowledge that, but it is still the case that in our cooperation we have some challenges in keeping Greenlandic students at our secondary schools and our universities. Are there any things where the apostasy is obviously too big that we can do better?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194757	Thank you very much. At home in Greenland, fortunately, things are going the right way, and one of the things you are pointing to is that voluntary organisations have gone more into the primary schools and thus also offer some other competences. I think that's super interesting. There are some completely new figures that have come. In relation to Greenlandic students in Denmark and especially those in the post-schools, we have, in the past, made a proposal called ikinngutit, which means friends. Friends could be a host family organisation, for it is the case that a socially exposed family in Greenland has to contact a exposed family in Denmark itself, which is typically the case. Perhaps it is in fact the child in the vulnerable family who most need a really good, resourceful family that could give a backlash to the graduate the year when he is far away from home. So that is quite specifically some of what we point to as a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194855	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194856	So for something completely different. I would ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to say a few words about how Greenland will find its legs in a situation where there is this great power rivalry around Greenland, and where the United States in particular has shown great appetite for influence in Greenland. How is the position in relation to, on the one hand, maintaining the Kingdom community and Greenland's path to independence and, on the other hand, dealing with the ongoing interest of the great powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194924	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008194925	Thank you. It's a balancing act. I think it is important to be critical of the Americans, because it is a completely different country, and it is quite different values that they bring in. I think that fortunately Greenland and Denmark have just been cemented, that we stand together strongly, but I also see that the Danish Government sees the United States as a closer and closer ally. There is also some good potential in working with the Americans, but I am also a little critical of the Americans in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195000	Then it's Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195001	I am sorry, but I have simply moved a chair to the left. This is Victoria Velasquez. I hope you don't mind if I borrow Mai Villadsen's chair. Thank you for your speech and, above all, for the important work done by the rapporteur and also for taking up some difficult messages in this Chamber. I would like to ask a little more about the message about the need for social innovation in future Greenland. So I would like to ask the rapporteur if we can get some examples of where we can support and what should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195040	Thank you very much. We have, for example. previously had a project called "Early Efforts," where the effort was just made from 0-2 years, but where there was just not enough resources to ensure that the families who needed help also received such more comprehensive help. It was a cooperation between the health and social services, and in Greenland the health services have just some more resources, even if it is a little challenged. They may also be better at taunting special babies, so that, if there are problems in the family, they quickly ridicule whether parents are able to meet the needs of the child rather than meet their own needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195136	Then it's Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195138	Thank you. I think that these are extremely important considerations, for example. We know that the fact that there are enough resources is essential for things to be adopted. And good ideas for solving social and environmental needs are only really good if they are implemented. I would therefore like to hear about the rapporteur's experience and reflection on what we need to be aware of when implementing it and what we need to be aware of in order to ensure that it is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195212	Thank you. These are many of the things that I mentioned and which are not really part of the agreement that the Naala Suisut and the government are talking about. So, in terms of housing policy, it's hard to help a family if it doesn't have a permanent home to live in... very low-practical... so if you identify a problem but don't have a place to give help to. The child speaker in Greenland has just come up with a new report to the UN, which points to how bad things really are, and I have a feeling that it is getting worse and worse in the area of children. And we really should have broken that curve, and I think everyone has intentions of that, but there's still some way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195250	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195251	Thank you. I was so delighted with what the rapporteur said in relation to better coverage in the Danish media of Greenland, and of course the Faroe Islands. A few years ago, I was invited with Denmark's Radio to Greenland with the programme "Long from the Castle." We should have done two programs in Greenland. First one was canceled because it was too expensive. And then the other one was canceled because it was too expensive. I think it was so poor that it was not possible to allocate funds in this social debate to cover the Kingdom community as well. So we Conservatives would very much like to work with the rapporteur to strengthen the focus in the Danish media on Greenland and the Faroe Islands. What I wanted to ask you is in relation to industrial development. Now it is only a few years before the new airports are ready, so you can fly straight to Ilulissat, to Nuuk. Hopefully this will lead to a proper increase in tourism, and the Greenlandic community must also be ready for this, not least in terms of education, industry and tourism. So I want to hear what the rapporteur can do when it comes to working with Naala Suisut to have that boost ready before the airports are ready, because training is needed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195401	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195403	Thank you very much. Well, I also think it's very positive when you see your country portrayed in a different way. Kim Leine said it very well, namely that Greenland is in a bit of a bind between the magnificent nature that we have in Greenland and the social misery. There is so much else in between that I also think is important to show off. • Hammerslaughter was among other things. in Greenland at some point. I thought that was fantastic, and I know that the "Borgen", of which some new sections have to be included, will also take place in Greenland. Film producers say that there is going to be a lot to do with Greenland, so it is really positive. But we need more, and there are also the media conciliation negotiations that are extremely important. Fortunately, we've got a foot in there. In terms of tourism, we have actually received a lot of training in South Greenland, which is typically Arctic guides, and a plan has been drawn up for Visit Greenland in relation to being ready when airports open. But, of course, corona is teasing us in Greenland in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195509	Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195510	I am pleased about that, and we Conservatives would of course like to cooperate with the rapporteur on that. In relation to the media and so on, this is also true when you look at getting better coverage of the Kingdom community in teaching materials etc. It's not just the media part, but it's also teaching materials. It goes all the way through and I think it has been watered down over time. Of course, we would also like to work with the rapporteur on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195538	Thank you very much. In the last school conciliation, it was decided to conclude an agreement which focused on the historical inclusion of the school pupils in the curriculum. I'm a little afraid that's how it regenerates prejudice. Some of what we are sometimes asked about is whether we live in igloos and whether we eat seals all the time and ride polar bears and things like that. It just seems so comical, but it's actually a little hurtful. Sometimes we are also asked if there are take-away places in Greenland. Greenland is a modern society, and I hope that there are some others who also have the opportunity to come to Greenland and see that it is actually really nice to be in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195617	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195618	A great many issues have been discussed here, mostly about responsibilities relating to Greenland, and not really about the responsibilities that belong to us here in the Folketing. So I apologise if I ask, because we have also seen before that the great criticism of Naala Suisut also comes where you take credit for what Naala Suisut has done at the same time. But these are many times also things that IA in the Folketing and IA at home in Greenland may disagree a little. So when IA in the Folketing says to start to shut down settlements naturally, which IA in Greenland, as far as I know, has a very strict policy on, I would like to know: is it the IA's official new policy that we should start to shut down the settlements?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195711	Thank you. Personally, I think that we should rise above party politics, to be quite honest. I think that there are a great many challenges in Greenlandic society that require political attention, and so is there. And a lot of things are going on very well, and we are going with the ministers too, and we are going with them in the committees and where it is supposed to be. So there are also many things that we have pointed out, which are the responsibility of the Danish Parliament; the municipal officers and the asylums are, in fact, something that could be pointed out. As I said, it is a personal policy, and I remember coming into the wind when I said that Denmark should help in relation to the vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. It is a few years ago and now we are standing here and 100 million have been set aside. kr. I think that sometimes, as a politician, you have to have some political courage to make some of the difficult decisions. I sincerely believe that this is extremely important in terms of pushing society forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195806	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195806-2	When you have been in Greenland and participated a lot in the professional organisations as a young person and have fought for the cause of children and young people, you also know that the reason why we got these millions through for children is the activists and grassroots movements that are in Greenland. But I need a clear answer, because you talk about perhaps not always having to think about party politics. When do you know if you are talking to IA in the Folketing or with Aaja Chemnitz Larsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195844	I am a member of Inuit Ataqatigiit and I am also a prominent member of Greenlandic politics, and I have the right to have different opinions, also about what is going on at home in Greenland, because it so much affects the policy we are doing here. That's what I have to say to it. I think it is important to have the courage to take this discussion, and I also think it is important to do it wisely and gently. After all, there are settlements where there are only older people who are left and where there are only men left, and naturally there is not much future in it. And I think you should have the courage to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195914	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195917	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. There were plenty of themes you could dive into and discuss further. But a general theme was also development, and I was particularly interested in the development of business and also how funding is being created. Does the rapporteur think that there is enough in the policy that also ensures that it is a sustainable development, and here I am also thinking of environmental and climate change? Well, sometimes you have to be careful when you set something new in motion, that it will also become the future, not on the pretext of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008195950	That is at least one of the things I miss in Greenlandic politics that we are talking much more about climate policy, and it may well be that we need to mature, that we start talking more about climate. But I know that there are a lot of young people in Greenland who are concerned about the climate agenda, and that is why I think we should do some things differently. After all, something we have proposed in the past is also a social innovation pool. Perhaps it could also be that socio-economic companies could help solve some of the challenges we face in Greenland, as well as the many small entrepreneurs that we have in Greenland. We have, for example. Something called green salad. So it is climate and innovation, and it might well be that you should have some taxes on some imported meat and, on the other hand, have some subsidies on some local food that is really expensive to buy in stores at home in Greenland. I think I'm really excited to continue working on those thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200053	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200054	Thank you for that answer. It's really exciting. Does the rapporteur think that there are things to do here from the Folketing, in cooperation with Greenland, of course, about precisely the development? Now the rapporteur spoke about entrepreneurship and how we can strengthen it. After all, it is a question of creating a sustainable future in the world and therefore also in Greenland, and here I am thinking of both the economy, the environment and the climate, and so on, and also the fisheries that the rapporteur mentioned. Are there any initiatives that the rapporteur thinks we should have discussed here in the Folketing in relation to these matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200128	Business development is, of course, a Greenlandic responsibility, but I think that using the whole fish, which you are very good at in Iceland, is also an obvious innovation project and perhaps also to link up some research and some business development. Green climate research is also quite obvious in Greenland, where we are really witnessing climate change, but we have chosen not to sign the Paris agreement ourselves. I think there are some things that kind of clash a little, and although we may not be the ones that emit the most CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200205	Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200207	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now the rapporteur himself said that green climate research could be something we should be working on, and that is actually what I wanted to say, namely whether we on the part of the Danish Parliament are doing enough to support Arctic research. Does the rapporteur have any considerations about this, both in relation to the sea and in relation to the country, but also from the point of view of security policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200233-2	Thank you for the question. Specifically, I know that there is this research ship that needs to be phased out and that more people are fighting for. I was in dialogue with the Institute of Natural Resources at home in Greenland to see if it was something they saw as a need. They have a new research ship, but they also want a Danish research ship to come to support the work they are doing. We jump a little from tue to tue when we make research efforts in the Arctic, and then we point a little finger at the Chinese and perhaps a little bit at the Americans that they come to Greenland and do research; but perhaps we should also look a little inward and see if we should prioritise the green research in the Arctic together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200315	Sir. Egil Hulgaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200317	I'm so glad that's being mentioned. We would really like to work together from the conservative side to secure a Danish research ship that can precisely exploit and look at the opportunities that are in Greenland and help to develop fisheries in a sustainable way as well. So I think we clearly have a potential for cooperation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200341	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200342	Thank you very much. I have no doubt that there is a great deal on the green agenda in particular that one could work together on, and I also hear how much it fills in here in the Danish Parliament, so it is an obvious area of cooperation to look at from a number of different angles, including as far as business development is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200356	Then we thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and move on to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008200406	What a year it's been, and it's not even over yet. Do we not all always remember where each of us was when the pandemic broke out and the whole world shut down? At the beginning of the year there were also natural castrophs that filled, the fires, huge climate changes that have absorbed the Arctic and the world. We need to remember to take better care of our planet. Then there was the debate about the statues and the name of an ice cream. In the midst of a pandemic, the debate on systematic racism has been revealed, analysed, criticised, oppressed minorities have been put on the map. For Denmark, this is no exception, minorities have had enough. At home in Greenland we also fought for a more equal working environment this spring, and later the same debate came to Denmark. Sexual harassment is now turned and turned, everyone has the right to an equal and safe working environment. The ice sheet melts and the sea ice disappears, opening up new opportunities in research and freer passage for shipping routes. European countries, China, Russia and the United States are showing increasing interest day by day in Greenland. Greenland is getting more and more on the world map. I noticed when an experienced Danish colleague said the other day that he had never really cared very much for Greenland until now, and it was alone because other countries are now showing interest. Unfortunately, it is not difficult to see this as an example of Denmark for a period of time forgetting Greenland's value, despite the fact that Denmark had always benefited from colonisation since the dawn of time, because the fact is that the Danish kingdom benefits from Greenland through Greenland's strategic location. The geopolitical situation puts the Arctic in focus, and that makes the great powers look to Denmark because of us. Without Greenland, Denmark would not have a voice in this context. However, it is worth mentioning that cooperation on foreign policy has never looked as positive for Greenland as it is now, because as Mette Frederiksen also said during the election campaign, the time has run from Danish politicians deciding on Greenland's foreign policy, and we from Siumut's side very much welcome that. I wonder if there are more in this Chamber who regard themselves as part of a fair and just people, more in here in the Assembly Hall who believe in the word community in understanding the concept of Kingdom Community? Nevertheless, I have been concerned and worried when there are parties and members of the Folketing who are still critical of the greater involvement of Greenland, as the government has shown. But is it not fair or fair that we Greenlanders, inuit kalaallit, are not always guaranteed a place at the big tables when big politics is discussed and negotiated with Greenland at the centre of the negotiations? Does this mean that the fate of our people, when Denmark once again has a new government, is no longer as much in our hands? The foreign policy on Greenland must be fully addressed by Greenland through Naalakersuisut, the Greenlandic Government. International forums of which Denmark is a member because of Greenland must in fact be managed by Greenland, where the Danish state can sit as a consultant and observer. It cannot be too quick to put this into practice. Try to imagine how you Danes would feel if you could not sit and talk politics with a Norwegian colleague without the permission of a Greenlandic statesman, if you could not negotiate foreign policy without the permission of the EU, without Germany or Greenland. My guess is that several of you would stand here where I stand and say some of the same things that I say today if the situation had been reversed. There are many things, not only foreign policy, that the Danish state is responsible for Greenland, which has a great deal of influence. The garages in Greenland, for which the Danish state is also responsible, are still in decline, and there are some barracks that urgently need modernisation. It is not possible to treat and rehabilitate with such a wretched environment that even human rights are repeatedly condemned. Renovation and modernisation funds are urgently needed for this work. After a meeting with the shop steward of the Greenlandic institution, I was also informed that there were many competent candidates who fall through the system during exam situations at the institution officer's training because they are better at Greenlandic than at Danish. Try to imagine that you Danes did not have the best prospects for the future unless you could speak Greenlandic. We must not lose the resources that candidates have to offer, because they are good at the language that belongs to their own country, because without them, as we can see now, we cannot guarantee the necessary legal certainty for Danish citizens in Greenland. The only viable solution is for us to ensure jointly that institution-supervised training can also be carried out in Greenlandic. Greenland, kalaallit nunaat, consequence • very long process. As you know, the area of justice and the judicial system is a Danish responsibility, and that is also why I noticed that the Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech about how Denmark will work to shorten the length of proceedings within the judiciary and thereby create security. I must expect that it has not been forgotten that the Greenlandic justice system will also be included in the process. Consequences of short process. I would urge everyone in this Chamber also to involve the respective people from Greenland in the work on the responsibilities we stand for, including that Greenland should not be excluded from judicial cooperation. Here I would also urge you not only to listen to us politicians, but also to listen to the fisherman, Ilatsiaq, the asylum officer, Taatsiaq, the researcher, Nivikka, the primary school teacher, Nuka, when you are dealing with Greenland. These human fates must not be neglected. The future of Kalaallit and the world must not be left alone in the hands of people who do not know or understand our culture, our world, our history, our values, our desires and our goals. Despite the fact that I appreciate the fact that I do so and the increasing interest in Greenland, we must also acknowledge that those who know our country best are ourselves Greenlanders. Since the growing interest in Greenland, the media coverage of Greenland has also filled more. It is important that we from Greenland should also be able to reflect ourselves in the stories that are being shared. It would therefore also be comfortable if various Danish and foreign media would start to involve the many talented Greenlandic artists and professionals as storytellers and not just as those who are being told about. When Denmark is becoming more and more interested in telling about Greenland these days, it must also be ensured that our history is also written by us. We look forward to discussing this with the government and the other partners. The whole world is going to save, there will be recession, values, courses fall with the Greenlandic course. The value Greenland continues to increase for Denmark these days, as if it were a residence in the middle of Copenhagen. It is time for the Danish side to realise that there is no Greenland without the owners, the Inuit, without us Greenlanders. Denmark can no longer underestimate Greenland's value when the eyes of the whole world are directed at us, but we Greenlanders, kalaallit, have always known our country's value, our own value, the value of 98%. of the Danish kingdom, approximately, for no matter what adversity we have experienced, whether others could not see our worth, we still stand here. We know the potential of our people, we know our country, the resources we have always benefited from, because without Greenland, Denmark would not look like it is now either. That is why we need to start listening more to the people rather than just talking about the people. On behalf of us, a renowned people for ourselves, who cannot even the Folketing change the Quajanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201418	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201422	Thank you. Now the Foreign Affairs rapporteur and Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam are working closely together on many issues in the field of foreign policy. I think it is quite natural that Greenland works in some repatriated areas and also works more internationally. I also think that there should be more elbow space and that there should be more and better cooperation, but I think that the ministers in Denmark and Greenland actually show the trusting cooperation. It is the case that there was a meeting last autumn with Mike Pompeo in the United States, with Mrs Ane Lone Bagger. Again this summer there was a meeting with Pompeo, where the Greenlandic representative was also present. So I think the trusting work is actually there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201532	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201533	Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the strong cooperation and thank you very much for it. But what worries me here, and that is also what I said in my speech, is that although I recognise the good cooperation with the government, including with regard to foreign policy, it is still worrying. This is something we are discussing at home in Greenland, so what if we change the government again? Is it just going to be a new policy, a harder policy? Are we no longer allowed to plead our own cause? And that is what worries us, so we would like to start the dialogue on how to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201610	Mrs. Annette Lind, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201612	Now it is the case that we are well in the process of creating a new Arctic strategy. It is unfortunate that because of the covid-19 we cannot start in Ilulissat as we should. But the Greenlandic strategy is also the Arctic strategy and the Faroese and Danish strategy. It is a cooperation within the framework of the Constitution. How does the rapporteur feel about working together on this, which must be equal and jointly within the framework of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201643	One can easily have an independent foreign policy within the framework of the Constitution; it is about how one works within the framework set. And it is in the same way that you can easily have a parliament in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, even if you really cannot have more parliaments within the framework of the constitution. In other words, there are many things that you interpret and for which you have a precedent and you then work on it. I would like to see how we can, in cooperation, ensure that this is systematically made more equal and not just a handshake on paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201720	Thank you. And then it's Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201724	Thank you. And thank you so much for your speech. I would like to start by saying that I am sorry for the fear on the part of the rapporteur that there will be a new government. I do not think that the rapporteur has so much to fear; the previous government put a great deal of emphasis on the dialogue and also made a lot of new breaks with regard to cooperation with Greenland and Greenland politicians. So I think the rapporteur can take it easy. We agree that the new security policy situation obviously requires closer and closer dialogue, including in the field of foreign policy. Speaking of cooperation, we believe that cooperation strengthens both countries. That is why, under the previous government, we also took the initiative for greater cooperation in the field of industry, including in this area. in relation to airports, in relation to capital, growth companies and other. Following on from this, I would like to ask the rapporteur what opportunities she sees for increasing cooperation in the field of business policy: what border barriers, what investments does the rapporteur think could strengthen both countries if we become better at working together on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201824	Thank you for your question and thank you for your good cooperation, particularly to the rapporteur. When we worry about what's going to happen to a new government, it's because of past experiences. However, in order to ensure that this will be a more equal relationship, we would also like to look at the structural and systematic aspects, and I hope that the Left will also want to cooperate with us there. It is thus that, as things stand now, we also have several conditions of cooperation on which we can agree, among other things. on professions, like you said. It is foreign policy on which there may be some disagreement, but as far as industry is concerned, for example. Greenland Business and Greenland Venture, which is in the process of setting up some cooperation on entrepreneurship together with some similar Danish organisations. But it is also important for us to be allowed to open up to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201924	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201925	Thank you. Following on from this talk, there is this talk about border barriers, which we on the Left would also like to give priority to bringing down as much as possible. It is both in relation to legislation that has to be translated at a certain speed and in relation to various technical barriers to trade, and that is in relation to maritime transport and other things. So, in relation to the whole issue of border barriers, where does the rapporteur see that we have some opportunities to do things better?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008201954	Thank you for the question. I would like to make it clear that I believe that our cooperation with Denmark and the Danish Government is constantly strengthened by Greenland's increased self-determination. Having said that, I would like to say to the rapporteur's question on border barriers that I am glad that you are addressing it. Siumut also has clear political guidelines for strengthening border barriers, especially in relation to drugs entering Greenland. We also have to look at how ships get to Greenland and how to look at it in a different way, because we don't have those motorways that you have down here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202034	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202035	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to put a similar question to what I put to the rapporteur before. Denmark is on its way to a consent law, which has been sent to a hearing and which will, of course, make a major difference to future rape victims, and hopefully there will be fewer of them as well. When you change the penal code, it does not apply in Greenland because of the differences in competence that exist there. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur views possible similar legislation on consent in Greenland and whether the rapporteur has other ideas on how we can promote the fight against sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202119	Thank you very much for the question. I think this is an important issue. It is also a topic that we brought up in Greenland in the early autumn, when we were ten women who stood up and rebelled against sexual harassment. I think it is important that when we talk about it, what should we call it, culture that has led to violations for many years, we need to find out how we are putting obstacles to it. I think there are a lot of good proposals for what we also need to look at, and I also think it is important that we not only copy and put in, as we have done in the past, but that we look at how to adapt it to Greenland. But I am open to cooperation on this, as Siumut's naalakkersuisoq for the subject too is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202204	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202205	I think that sounds really, really exciting, because it is one of the things that can move fence posts and create fewer victims when you change the culture around it, and you have to make sure that the other is on it. Unfortunately, we have been behind in this for some time, and other countries England and Sweden have come quite a bit ahead of us. So if as many people as possible could get started, it could be something we could have fewer victims for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202237	I am delighted, and I can also see that there are many things we can work together on. For this reason, I think that Siumut should also have a meeting with the Radicals and talk about how we can develop some potential for cooperation that we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202259	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202301	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for that very fine speech. I am interested to hear a little about tourism in Greenland. I have followed a lot in an exciting series about Peitersen and the oceans and Jens and Dorthe, who are sailing around and who originally come from Greenland. It has inspired me a lot, and you and I are going to have a meeting at some point. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur because the rapporteur so well reports that it is of course you who know your country best and your tales and your peculiarities how the rapporteur now sees sustainable tourism development in Greenland with the new airports.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202350	Thank you very much. It is also very important for us to look at nature, as we must safeguard it. Not long ago, when we had a meeting in Nuuk, young people from high school arranged a huge event in Katuaq, Greenland's cultural house, where they talked about how to have development and tourism without damaging biodiversity and nature. I think that's the direction we're going to go in. We young people look at the future by looking at nature as well. We know we only have one planet to live on. But through dialogue and through international forums, we need to find a good way to work together, where we make each other smarter on different things • what has worked and what has not. I also think that, like the Nordic countries, it is also interesting for me to see how cooperation can be developed between the Arctic nations, as we have these geographical and demographic similarities and also have to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202454	Birgitte Bergman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202456	Thank you for that and thank you for the good answer. But does the rapporteur recognise that there are opportunities to create new jobs and new opportunities for young people in Greenland, too, with good tourism development? And is there a need to collaborate more closely with Denmark on tourism development?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202516	There is a need for greater cooperation with Denmark, but not only with Denmark. I believe that this cooperation will be strengthened, the more we will become structural. There are opportunities and potential and there is an opportunity to create jobs. I have also been out in the settlements where I have seen that the settlements have huge potential in terms of tourism. There are many who are good at making traditional qajaq that they can use for tourism. There are many who have fantastic prospects that we do not have in the cities we have. We can develop and use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202553	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202555	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a fine speech. The rapporteur spoke among other things. about Greenlandic history and that Greenlandic history is written by us. I have some doubts as to what the rapporteur means by 'us', because I hope a little that the rapporteur, with 'us', believes that it has been written in a Greenlandic-Danish community. How can we strengthen this community, which is the great community? Because when I hear the rapporteur's speech, I still think that a great deal is being said about Greenland and Denmark, and I hope that we can, of course, have a greater focus on us. Does the rapporteur think that it is an opportunity for us to have a stronger Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202646	When I say 'us', I mean the people who are recognised as Greenlanders. We are different peoples, and we are also recognised as such under the auspices of the United Nations. I think that we should work together and I really believe that this cooperation must be strengthened through structural equality, because right now that is not what it looks like, and many people at home feel that way. And that's what I'm focusing on. But I still think that we can have good cooperation with Denmark. That is not what this is all about, and it will only be strengthened, the more equality there will be in legislation, in structural terms and at other levels. I think that is important to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202726	Then we thank Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. There are no more brief comments. And then we can welcome Mr. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008202742	Thank you, President. I'd like to invite you on a little trip. We have to go back seven years to 2013. It was an eventful year in the Kingdom community, yes, all over the world. 2013 was the year when we lost great personalities like Nelson Mandela and Margaret Thatcher. It was also the year when Denmark won the international Melodi Grand Prix, where Bostonmaratonet was subjected to a terrible act of terror, where whistleblower Edward Snowden came on everyone's lips and where Siumut came to power in the Greenlandic national elections. And then it was the year when the EU boycotted Faroese fish in all European ports. From one day to the next, the Faroe Islands had to look for other export markets, for new markets at all. And I must admit that I was very surprised at the time when the European Union, which is almost 10,000 times as large as the Faroe Islands, jointly chose to use its power against a small putnation like the Faroe Islands. A nation dependent on fishing and its exports was boycotted because there was no agreement on the allocation of quotas. It was our entire basis of life that was boycotted. It was like David's fight against Goliath, a totally unreasonable struggle that went on for a whole year before the EU lifted the boycott. I am sure there are many who think that you are crazy when you settle on some small mountain peaks that stick out of the northernmost part of the Atlantic Ocean, where it rains every two days and storms every three. But now we are there and we are not the only ones who thrive well on and around these islands. Fish stocks are also thriving around us and stocks are enormously large. The Faroe Islands' current trade agreement with the EU is obsolete and with totally unfair conditions for the export of some Faroese goods. Today, we export primary raw materials to the European market. The challenge lies in the finished fishery products, because here the EU customs trap is clapping. And it is these products that can create jobs and increase export value in the Faroe Islands. The current trade agreement is a straitjacket for innovation and new technology in the fishing industry. When the Faroe Islands have only limited access to the EU market, it is natural that we avoid the European Union. We had to do so back in 2013 because, as the proverb says: Distress teaches naked woman to spin. Exports to Russia have multiplied over the past decade. In 2012, it amounted to 8 per cent. of total exports. Five years later in 2017, it accounted for a total of 29 per cent, that is, more than a quarter of the Faroe Islands' total exports. This marked increase would probably not have been seen if it had not been for the EU boycott in 2013. Let me be quite clear: I do not question whether the Faroe Islands should trade with Russia. The Faroe Islands trade with and want to trade with the whole world, but it is important that the Faroe Islands do not become economically dependent on Russia, because then we risk becoming a point of pressure in geopolitical terms. We must not become dependent on countries outside the West which do not accept our democratic rules. The Faroe Islands belong in the West, and we have a common basis of value with the Western world. The great powers lie in wait and will have influence in our area. When both the United States and China send their ambassadors to the islands to influence the Faroese position, the Faroe Islands are in the middle of a major political hurricane. In addition, there is much evidence that the Russians repeatedly flew through Faroese airspace in the spring, despite the fact that they advocate low voltage in the Arctic. In other words, we see how the limited trade opportunities with the West have meant that trade and cooperation with the countries of the East have now become a security policy challenge. The time has come for the Faroe Islands to join the field and take responsibility when it comes to security issues in the kingdom community. And, of course, an advanced NATO radar must be set up in the Faroe Islands. It must ensure that we close the gaps in the airspace and help to improve the monitoring of foreign aircraft. At the same time, we show that we take our share of responsibility in the defence alliance. The radar therefore helps to scale down the Faroe Islands as a future area of conflict and thus to improve the security of citizens throughout the Kingdom community. The Faroe Islands must never end up as a point of pressure for the eastern countries. And how do we avoid that? We do this by saying that Denmark is also joining forces, by saying that Denmark, as a Member State, speaks for the Faroe Islands and thus paves the way for a Faroese free trade agreement with the European Union, in short: that the government and the whole parliament support the clear Faroese desire for closer cooperation with the European Union and the West. Denmark, as part of the Kingdom Community, has a responsibility and, as a member of the EU, has a great impact on the process of a new and better trade agreement with the Faroe Islands. Better access to markets in the Western world is therefore a win-win situation for the Faroe Islands and for the largest markets in the West. With better access to these markets, exports to, for example, are naturally scaled down. the Russian market. In this way, the European Union and the United States are avoiding the friction of defence policy that we have seen in recent times. For let me make it clear with seven inch nails: we choose the West. And now is the time for the West, and thus the European Union, to choose us. In this way, we will ensure that the history of the boycott in 2013 does not repeat itself. I just have to hope that when my successor one day stands on this platform and thinks back to 2020, it is not only to tell the story of the year when the Corona virus laid down the whole world, but also to tell the story of the year when the Kingdom community showed its strength and together started working against a free trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and the European Union and seriously put an end to the fight between David and Goliath. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first is to Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203759	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a very good and very important speech. I hope that the government listened very carefully, because these are very, very important security policy considerations, the rapporteur is doing what we believe is also essential for the Faroe Islands to be more secure in the world if we are better able to export to the European Union and to the United States than we have today. I would like to hear a little bit about the rapporteur's reflections on how, in a world where military activity in the Arctic and the North Atlantic is increasing in a situation where there are several areas repatriated to the Faroe Islands, we are ensuring that there is a closer dialogue between the Faroe Islands and Denmark in the field of foreign policy and defence, and perhaps also at parliamentary level, so that it does not just take place between governments. Does the rapporteur have an idea of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203851	Thank you. And thank you for the question. Yes, well, today it is more necessary than ever, because, as I said, both Russia and the United States are meeting in the Faroe Islands with their ambassadors, and we know why, and then there are Russian overflights and negotiations on the Arctic. It has never been so necessary as now for the parliaments to talk and for the governments to talk, so we must find a way in the Kingdom community that makes us first talk and agree on what we are playing against the great power.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203948	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008203950	Thank you. It may not be a surprise: we are very much in agreement. Following on from some of the points made by the rapporteur last year, which I know are of great concern to the rapporteur, namely the research into the seas around the Faroe Islands, which the rapporteur played in the negotiations last year, I would like to ask: what is the status of the research effort and cooperation, and is there anything else that we can play here in the context of the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204019	Thank you. We have great cooperation with the government and the finance minister. The government has granted no less than 25.5 million. kr. over 4 years for marine research around the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and it is precisely a research where we will show and understand the sea. It is really the case that we have been fishing and have done so without knowing where it all comes from. So, from year to year, where does the nourishment come to fish stocks? Is there a difference between them? What are the parameters for the different things? With this research we will understand the sea, and I would say from the Norwegian border to Greenland's.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204123	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204124	Thank you. After all, we are engaged in some important police negotiations at the moment, and one of the things that is in the presentation is the modernisation of the North Atlantic police circles, including those in the Faroe Islands, for example. to ensure the necessary modernisation of the police, renovation of the building stock and so on. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any input on what is important in this regard, in other words how, according to the rapporteur, we ensure adequate modernisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204202	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is a very important issue, and the fact is that the police have been saying for years that they have been lagging behind and that too little modernisation is taking place in the Faroe Islands, compared to what is happening in Denmark. Now, of course, we are a different kind of society, but we have then been in contact with the government, which indicates that something is now happening in this area. There will be, for example: built a new police station in the Faroe Islands, which is almost finished, and there is a modernisation of things and things that the police take care of. So there's something going on in this area. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204255	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204256	Thank you. After all, security is important everywhere in the community, and it's something that's being put a lot of focus on in these police negotiations. So thank you for your feedback. This is, of course, something we bring forward, so we make sure that we focus on the security of all parts of the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204319	Well, thank you. It is a very important function which must function in every society. And people in the Faroe Islands have great faith in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204331	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204336	Thank you. I listened very much to the recitals on trade agreements, and then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has any reflection on possible agreements with England after Brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204350	Thank you. The national government already has an agreement with England and it was made in advance so that the same agreement should apply in the event of their withdrawal from the country as was the case with the EU. So the Faroe Islands already have an agreement with England.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204419	The next brief remark is to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204424	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I always enjoy hearing news from the Nordics. It is always exciting to hear from the Faroe Islands. One of the things that the Faroe Islands have been quite famous for lately is the very effective testing strategy in relation to corona. We have heard that you in the Faroe Islands can test many people very quickly and with quick answers. So perhaps I could lure the rapporteur to elaborate a little more on how the Faroe Islands have chosen to deal with the corona situation, and perhaps we can learn something from the Faroe Islands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204456	Thank you. So, the Faroe Islands are perhaps the country in the world that checks the most people, and it comes from the fact that in salmon farming in the Faroe Islands you have read how to investigate many at once with very low costs. So it is the salmon industry in the Faroe Islands that you can thank for being able to check so many people. The fact is that someone who comes to the Faroe Islands either by plane or by ship is checked for corona. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204541	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204545	That sounds really interesting. Has it been possible to avoid some of the restrictions we have had in Denmark in relation to closing schools and the like, because we have been able to test so many more?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204556	Thank you. I would say that we have had outbreaks with the same pattern as you have in Denmark, but not so violently. There have been periods of weddings or gatherings and relatively large outbreaks. But the authorities have had a good grip on it and have always managed to stem the risk of infection. So it is good in the Faroe Islands, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204634	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008204644	Thank you. On Monday I will publish a book on the very dramatic negotiations on the separation of the Faroe Islands from Denmark, which took place here in the house exactly 20 years ago. At that time the Faroe Islands filled a great deal in the Danish public, and it was not only a small majority in the Faroe Islands who wanted to leave the realm. The feeling of distrust was mutual in fact there was a large majority of the Danes who also wanted to cut the ties. This is a major and very fundamental matter, because we have not had military installations in the Faroe Islands for many, many years. And of course, the Faroe Islands cannot remain under the radar in a figurative sense when a large military radar is set up in a concrete sense. So on 13 August, some Danish defence rapporteurs explained to Politiken how they looked at the matter. From the Left it was said: It is a problem that we do not have enough control of what is up there with the current developments, there must be a good Danish overview, and we must be able to enforce Danish sovereignty. I believe that most of the convicts will take part in this responsibility if the purpose is to strengthen the Western Alliance's defenses. But I doubt that you will lay the groundwork to ensure Danish overview and Danish sovereignty up there. From the Conservatives it was said: We agree with the need to get a radar on the Faroe Islands it is incredibly important that we know what is going on in our own backyard. Our own backyard There are two prerequisites that can make the Danish realm a great player in the Arctic. Prerequisite number 1 is the over 2 million. km2, which is called Greenland. Prerequisite number 2 is the Faroe Islands. It is a very small country, but it is located in a strategically very important place, and with the sea area it is therefore 275,000 km2. Denmark's 43,000 km2 does not give the kingdom a great deal of gravity in this context. When I hear Danish politicians speak like the two rapporteurs mentioned above, I think of a joke that we used to tell when I was a little boy in Thorshavn. There were three bandits we called them bandits but then the judge says they can be acquitted and released on one condition. They can have their freedom if they live up to one condition and now the problem is that the morality of this story is very important to my message, but I'm a little afraid that the President will find one of the next words in history inappropriate and that she will give me a reprimand if I say so, then what to do? On the other hand, I've been standing here for nine years, and over the nine years, I've never gotten an address here on the platform. Well, the judge tells these three bandits that they're being released if their three life-giving organs. You usually say that the size isn't that important, but in this case it's very important. Well, they come to the judge, and he sits with his measuring tape, and he measures the first: 12 cm • it doesn't look good. Next man: 7 cm. It's hopeless. But then comes the last one: 1 cm! 12 plus 7 plus 1 is equal to 20. They are free men, joyful and embrace each other. But as soon as they're out of the courtroom, the first one says: Now you're standing here, but it's me you can thank for what you wouldn't have been standing here if I hadn't presented my 12 cm today. But then the next one says, "What about me?" You wouldn't have been here if I hadn't shown you my 7 cm. No, no, no, says the third. It is I that you can thank for your freedom; we would have been locked at this moment if I hadn't had iron... that is, if I hadn't been excited. Laughter I apologize for the inappropriate words, but if we go to morality, and if we imagine that these three bandits are Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, then we can see two important messages in this story. First, when it comes to the importance of the empire in the Arctic, it is Greenland that delivers the 12 cm, the Faroe Islands deliver the 7, while Denmark may on a very good day span itself to deliver the one center. It is therefore worthwhile to talk about the Faroe Islands as a backyard in this context. The second message is that what matters is not how much we each deliver, but how much we deliver together. The important thing is the synergy effect, i.e. that together we reach the 20 cm. And then we have to remember that if you want to make a move, it doesn't just have to be geography. We also need political and economic and diplomatic strength. There Denmark can deliver the 12 cm, while the others can share the rest. For even though Denmark is a small country, the economy is a hundred times as large as that of the others. The question is: Does Denmark do that? Do you invest enough? Do you deliver the 12 cm? In the Faroe Islands we have just built a new research ship. It's a huge investment. The Danish research ship Dana is 40 years old. Ask DTU what you think of it. The military's two most used inspection ships in the North Atlantic are over 30 years old. Ask Arctic Command, ask the Faroe Islands Command what you think of it. If we compare with Norway, Denmark does not do much to be at the forefront of the field of the countries that will influence development. I don't think you bet enough. I don't think you deliver the centimeters you should. Of course, I have the greatest respect for the efforts of Denmark and Danish soldiers in Afghanistan and Mali and elsewhere. But if you put a greater share of resources on the part of the planet where the realm actually lies, you could also do a lot of good, and you can also be a very good and strong partner for the United States on your own home ground, so to speak. And if you did not just include the Faroese authorities in the decisions, as I believe this government does, but also involved Faroese business in the practical tasks to be solved, then you would strengthen the sense of community in the realm. Military ships do not need to be tendered throughout Europe because there are three shipyards in the kingdom, one of which is in the Faroe Islands. So invest and make sure that all three yards are involved. Like the Danish military ships, the Faroe Islands' two civilian emergency and inspection ships are to be replaced with new ones, and it might be possible to combine the Faroe Islands' new ships with the military's new ships. It's just a thought I have, but the tasks overlap at least, and there's money to save. It is therefore through involvement at the practical level that the feeling of community is strengthened. However, a new rudder will allow Faroese companies to participate in the whole project, not only as employees, but also as advisors. We have the 20 cm in place when it comes to geography. We can also reach the 20 politically speaking. And then we can actually become a great power in the Arctic. We should stand together and we should stand together with the Nordic countries. The alternative could be an Arctic run by countries that do not share our values. I can see that there are 30 seconds left, so I would say that I was perhaps very critical, but that I am not mad. I am so very pleased with the cooperation with the government in all kinds of fields with all ministers and so on, but I think it is important that we place more emphasis on the Arctic than we have done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205646	Thank you to the rapporteur. As for the desire for rebukes, it may be next year. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205658	Thank you. And thanks for the speech, which as always was delivered with good charisma; thank you for that. I would like to ask that we are currently sitting and focusing on the police talks that are taking place in the area of justice. And in view of the strange acquittals which, according to the information, take place, it is very good that we focus on modernising conditions, I can hear. And that is why I just want to hear in all silence what some input the rapporteur has for modernising the police, as we focus on it in these police negotiations, both in relation to renovation of building stock, the purchase of new equipment and other security-building measures. For security is important, and security is important in all parts of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205750	Thank you for the question. It is precisely this kind of practical cooperation that is crucial and important; it is not the ideological plunder. I have had a very fine and constructive meeting with my good colleague Edmund Joensen on this matter with the Minister for Justice. The questioner now asks what we have said, and that is a whole series of very technical things. However, we have been in dialogue with the police in the Faroe Islands, and with all sorts of bodies we have put in place such a common package rather than the Minister for Justice as he is currently looking at. And we are very confident and believe that what we have said will be followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205826	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205828	That sounds really good. And then I would just like to ask another question: this is that we have a consent law on the way in Denmark, which makes very important progress, that when it comes to intercourse, it is of course mutual and something to make sure that the other person is involved. And when it is that such a thing is being dealt with in relation to the penal code, it always says that it does not apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and then I would like to hear how the rapporteur looked at having similar rules in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205903	Thank you. Then we go from life-giving organs to intercourse. It is so that the lagman in the Faroe Islands has said that he wants a similar law put into force in the Faroe Islands; he has announced that. He has said on the Danish proposal that it is a positive and good proposal and he has said that he will make a similar proposal in the Latting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205925	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008205929	Thank you very much. Now I'm a pretty boy, so I don't know much about life-giving bodies in the Faroe Islands. I know, however, that the rapporteur often mentions that Denmark has the great muscles of the Commonwealth, which is why I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur could share his thoughts on how he thinks we can become an Arctic economic power in this game in relation to our neighbours and the challenges we now have as a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210009	I believe that if you mark yourself as a country that is at the forefront of the field of research, port construction, etc., you will automatically get an economic return on it. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at what Norway does in Svalbard, where you invest a lot of money and attract a lot of researchers, you can see that there really is a financial gain in it. But, as I said, there is a research ship called Dana, which is so old that it is said that it has to be set up soon, that you have to stop using it for the next few years. It would be fair to say that we are now building a new research ship. There was a somewhat embarrassing incident some years ago, where some scientists could not come north of Greenland because there were no Danish ships they could be on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210053	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210054	Thank you. After all, I simply acknowledge that the rapporteur mentions several times that we have very good cooperation and that it is also a good community that we have built up. The Faroe Islands are a success, especially as their economy has become very large and strong in relation to their population. Perhaps that is more a comment than a question to the rapporteur and a receipt of a good speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210125	Thank you. Now, as I have said, I am a little critical, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very open to and clear throughout his period in that any decision to be taken on the Faroe Islands must be taken jointly between the Danish and Faroese authorities, and that, of course, is the way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210148	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210149	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. One of the great advantages that we see of the Kingdom community is that you can learn something from each other. There is no doubt that the Faroe Islands were much quicker to test a large proportion of the population and to set up a well-functioning test system. As Mr. Edmund Joensen mentioned earlier, is there a difference between country and country, but given how much faster it went in the Faroe Islands, is there in the spirit of learning from each other within the Kingdom community, something in the experiences of the Faroe Islands that the rapporteur thinks could benefit from taking on board in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210233	There is, of course, the history of salmon, which Mr. Edmund Joensen talked about, but one has also been more open to opening up private companies in this field. Public and private companies have worked together to test many people. We have tested 135,000 • almost three times the population and it would not have been possible if private companies had not been opened up. It is also good that a price has been set on how much a test costs. We are now paying 312 kroner. to get a test, and you get answers after such approx. The elimination half-life is approximately 6 hours. Perhaps one could be more open in Denmark to cooperation with private companies when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210314	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210315	And it's very exciting. Unfortunately, this is not something the government has wanted to open up to yet for reasons that we cannot fully understand. Is there anything from the experience in the Faroe Islands that the government has reason to be afraid of in relation to opening up that private people can help solve this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210333	Now I do not want to be involved in a purely Danish discussion. I answer the questions that are being asked, but I can say that one of the private companies testing people in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands is also in Denmark, but I know that they are a little frustrated about not being able to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210350	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The last person in the rapporteur's line who has asked to speak is a privateist, sir. Sikandar Siddique. I would point out that speaking time is 7 minutes for a privateist and there is a maximum of 30 minutes for questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008210413	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to start by congratulating you on your party day. It's a party day... both the opening debate and the opening of the Danish Parliament, so congratulations to all of you. We often call the opening of the Folketing one of the festival days of democracy. But the truth is that democracy for too many is a closed party. There are over half a million citizens in this country who have not been invited to the party. They are not Danish citizens and they cannot be allowed to vote in the parliamentary elections. In other words, we live in what can be called a democratic apartheid. It's about my speech today. How can we celebrate democracy when it does not apply to everyone, when not everyone is heard? There are over 614,000 immigrants in Denmark. Of them, only 150,000 have citizenship, that is, under one in four. It's a democratic declaration of failure, if you ask me. In addition, there are 193,000 descendants, i.e. second generation dancers, and of them as many as 67,000 do not have citizenship, i.e. only one in three have citizenship. We are talking about people born in Denmark and raised Denmark. So I ask the honourable Members: can that really be right? All in all, it is close to one in ten citizens in Denmark who do not have citizenship and are not allowed to vote for the parliamentary elections, even if they pay taxes, even if they go to school in Denmark, even if they work in Denmark, even if they love Denmark, and even if they and their descendants will always live in Denmark. But they are outside democracy and they are not allowed in. Look, there is talk of a state-sanctioned parallel society. There is talk of keeping citizens out of the community. And one can rightly ask oneself: how much commitment to society can one possibly expect from these fellow human beings when we do not want to let them into the heart of democracy? So we can talk about a democratic apartheid. And you know what the worst part is? We don't really talk about it. It's actually so glaring that when someone tries to change it, they just get rejected. An approved citizen's proposal to give automatic citizenship after 10 years has just been poured down the board. I find this disappointing, especially for all the minority citizens who thought that with a new government we would have a new direction for society. How all honourable Members of this House believe that we will ever be able to put an end to parallel societies and create better integration when people born and raised in Denmark are not allowed to vote, yes, I do not understand that. I just don't get it. This really gives me a bad taste in the mouth on one of the festival days of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we can and must do better. This brings me to another form of democratic apartheid: all the others who are also excluded from or do not have a place in our democracy. It's all the others who don't have a voice. It's the youth. There are over a million Danes under 18 who cannot vote, but who must live in the country and world we create with our legislation. Many of these young people have held events with Fridays for Future in the Castle Square last week. The Green Student Movement was there too; for that they should be thanked. You're gonna have to listen to me, no matter what sir. Morten Messerschmidt says. Neither does nature have a voice. It is being silenced day in and day out, subjected to abuse and extortion. It is the yet unborn who will inherit the planet on which we have all been allowed to live. All those I have just mentioned, we must listen to and think about when we make decisions in this Chamber and, unfortunately, we do so quite simply, not to a large extent today. At the last parliamentary elections, many thought that at last the young, nature, animals and the still unborn were heard. That's what the politicians promised. But one and a half years into the government period, it is shamefully so little that has actually been done. We've got a Climate Act... yes... but the necessary action is missing. Worse still, we do not take account of all Denmark's emissions, as per. residents are among the highest in the world. That is why the Free Greens are now coming forward with a proposal for a Climate Act 2.0 to ensure that we reduce all the emissions that are not counted today, for example. imports, shipping and air traffic. I hope that all parties will support that. It is, in fact, to look very much at democracy when you say in the election campaign that you take the climate crisis seriously but do not act on it at all. It is a monumental generation failure when you are elected on the greenest mandate ever, but at the same time do not ensure the necessary climate action. Unfortunately, this may mean that many lose faith in democracy; large groups will not engage. And I can't let that happen. That is why we must, together, dissolve the democratic apartheid that I have outlined here today, so that democracy is not just for some chosen people, but for everyone. The ambition of the Free Greens is to be the voice of all those who cannot vote, of all those who do not have a voice and of all those who are not being listened to and of all those who are being shut out of this democratic feast. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211119	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211126	It's always crazy to hear the rapporteur on the platform...
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211132	Wait a minute. I am sorry, but it turns out that there is also a text adopted by the rapporteur, so please read it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211139	On behalf of Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and myself, I am going to make the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government, which is held up by its support parties, is a historic green disappointment that fails to take on the climate responsibility it promised to take on. Thus the government is in the process of fulfilling a generational failure without historical parallels. Parliament also notes that it is unacceptable that the government's policy on foreigners contributes to the division of society by feeding xenophobia and stigmatisation. This applies primarily to our Muslim fellow citizens. Parliament notes that there is a need for a deep and consistent fight with the all-dominantly ill economic thinking that puts economic growth above the future of our children. Finally, the Folketing notes that many of the established status quo parties in the Folketing are similar and that, therefore, new parties are so needed to challenge the compromise-seeking logic that has led us today to stand on the brink of a climate disaster and that the diversity of our nature is in free fall. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211241	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. And now to the series of questioners. The first question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211250	Let's try it again. It is always wild things that come out of the rapporteur's mouth: we live in a democratic apartheid. Well, it's weird to say things like that. The rapporteur boasts that the rapporteur is in favour of equality, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that homosexuals should come to the mosque. And then I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur will do for migrant women who are kept in violent marriages. What will the rapporteur do in the fight against negative social control? And what about the divorce contracts that resemble Sharia law? The rapporteur never talks about all these things, so what will the rapporteur do about them? The rapporteur often mentions strange proposals, such as: That women should be off duty when they have menstruation, and other weird things. What will the rapporteur do about it? But if homosexuals are allowed to go to the mosque, will the rapporteur fight for it? Does the rapporteur agree that girls and boys should swim together, or should we have gender-separated swimming lessons?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211408	Now it was 15 questions at once, so I will try to answer them as well as I can. How many years ago did the Danish People's Party stand here defending the right of reproof? I remember reading an analysis at one point, I think it was in Jyllands-Posten by the voters of the Danish People's Party. Actually, I don't remember the number now, because I wasn't prepared to throw mud here on democracy's party day. But I think you should grab your own bosom. Then I would say that I am the political leader of the Free Greens I am not imam, I am not a theologian. I can tell you that we fight for everyone regardless of skin color, religiousness, sexuality in the Free Greens. Everyone must have equal rights, no one must be discriminated against, no matter where in society it is. In addition, I would say...
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211508	Thank you! It will be next round now to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211511	That was a lot of extravagance. What exactly will the rapporteur do about the imams that make these divorce contracts? What will the rapporteur do for immigrant women who are kept in violent marriages? Our shelters are flooded with women with second ethnicity. After all, the rapporteur never talks about all these things, not even in relation to how the rapporteur intends to combat negative social control, or what exactly the rapporteur wants to do for homosexuals, so that they can also get into, for example, a situation in which there is a lack of social control. The mosque. Is that something the rapporteur wants to fight for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211547	The rapporteur is a political leader, but I can clearly see that the questioner has a very, very difficult time ignoring my religious background. And that is actually clear proof of the discrimination, the democratic apartheid that I am talking about. But let me now try to answer the many, many questions where the answer is a matter of course. I have made a lot of proposals in the last session on women's rights, and I will continue to do so. And I will also continue to fight for minority women Thank you!), i.e. that they come out of the unfortunate conditions that may exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211629	Yes, please! And the President will continue to fight to ensure that speaking time is respected, both rapporteurs and questioners. A large number of people have wanted to speak and a total of 30 minutes are available. The next question is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211642	Thank you to the rapporteur. I won't drag religion into the debate. This is more the debate on apartheid, which I think is a problem. We grew up not so far apart and have 100 per cent respectively. and 50%. roots far from Denmark. Why don't we stop mixing skin color into this discussion? In other words, we may disagree on when to have citizenship, but this is not about apartheid. Apartheid was a disgusting system in South Africa, which Denmark actually took the lead with Sweden in boycotting. So will the rapporteur not refrain from using that expression? I think that will suit the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211712	We can always discuss the choice of words, but I called it democratic apartheid precisely to say that it is not, of course, comparable to the conditions prevailing during the apartheid period in South Africa. That, of course, is important for me to say. But what is also important to me is that there is therefore a large minority population; there is a large group of people who want equality, who want to be part of society, who want to contribute to society but who feel trapped and discriminated against. And right now we in Denmark have reached a place where there are real, very many young people who so want to enter society but who feel structurally disadvantaged and who feel that they are trapped between different cultures. And right now, we need to show leadership. Now is the time to ensure that these young people are allowed to participate in society. Now the rapporteur asked just now what we should do about minority women. Minority women are advancing in education. Let's anonymize the applications. Thank you! ) so that we can get them to use their skills so that they can become self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211820	Yes, please! Please respect that when the President stands up, because then the time has actually passed. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211829	Thank you. I think the last part of the answer was for the Danish People's Party, and you can take it later. Yes, there may be people who feel discriminated against or have an experience of not being part of society. I would say that I see it as such that the vast majority of ethnic minorities contribute positively and feel as part of Danish society. But does the rapporteur sincerely believe that using the word apartheid brings together more than it divides? So, should we not talk about skin color and stop making comparisons that are not realistic in Denmark, where we are actually doing a lot for our ethnic minorities, and how many are also a positive part of Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211903	I think it is important that we in the Folketing take these many, many minority citizens seriously. In fact, I think it is time that we put this on the agenda in the Folketing. I mean that. It was an expression to describe and illustrate the feelings of these young people. It was precisely an attempt to illustrate the frustration that exists among really, very many minority citizens. And as I said to the questioner earlier, we can discuss whether the choice of words should be different, but that does not change the fact that we have now reached a point in Denmark where minority citizens claim to define the next Denmark together with the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211949	The next question is Mr. Ruben Kidde from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008211953	Thank you very much, and congratulations, sir. Sikandar Siddique with the launch of the new Party of Free Greens. A few days after the launch, I noticed that Mr. Sikandar Siddique's party colleague Mrs Susanne Zimmer was forced to withdraw a statement. She said in a radio interview that the party would like to reach a compromise on a CO2 tonne, although 19 000 million. t was necessary. It was then multiplied a little, because of course it is only 18 and 19 million. T, we're talking about. But basically, a member of parliament, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, was rebuked by Mr. Sikandar Siddique on the grounds that the party does not compromise. So I would like to have Mr. Sikandar Siddique, where is the uncompromisingness?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212100	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to ask for a little more silence in the Chamber. There's a lot of talk around here. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212109	Thank you, President. For the Free Greens, it is crucial that we respond to the climate crisis in relation to climate science and the recommendations there are. And when we say that we are uncompromising, it is not because we do not want to negotiate. It's not like we can't talk to. What we just don't want to negotiate is the goal. For 30 years we have known what climate science is saying, but for 30 years we have made compromises, and in these 30 years we have derived more CO2 which is why we say that when it comes to the climate, we cannot negotiate with the laws of physics and the laws of nature. If we prey on nature and the planet, there will be floods, climate refugees will come, there will be food shortages, and therefore we will have to be uncompromising on the climate side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212208	Sir. Ruben Kidde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212211	I am pleased to hear that the newly founded party is interested in making compromises as long as they live up to climate science and also the Government's Climate Council, I assume. After all, it is gratifying if there are more green voices in the debate that can promote the green cause. I would like to hear very briefly in which of the great green negotiations in the autumn of the Free Greens hope to be in and be a compromise party to a particular extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212240	I think I might have to say something again, because perhaps the questioner misunderstood me. We are in no way compromising on the objective, but how we achieve the goal we can negotiate on, and we would like to be involved in all negotiations. If we are invited by the government, we really, really want to show up to make our contribution, but we do not compromise on the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212304	The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212306	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are also really concerned about the question of how to stop negative social control. So, following on from the question put by my fellow rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, I would like to ask the rapporteur from the Green Group whether part of the solution is not to ensure that these women are in Denmark independently. Many of the women involved are in Denmark on their husband's residence permit, which makes it very difficult to leave him. It kind of gives him a free pass to be sorry, I'm saying it's a violent idiot because the woman loses her place of residence if she leaves him. So maybe we should help these women by giving them their own residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212354	I totally agree. It's about strengthening women. That is why the Greens say: let us anonymize the applications, let women enter the labour market • those who storm on education. But then I also need to say that in addition to the fact that we obviously have conservative environments, the recent debate on sexism has also shown us that we ourselves in here in political Denmark have a women's oppressive culture, a sexist culture. There are 322 cases that have emerged, and that is just the tip of the iceberg. So what I am just saying is that we must, of course, combat negative social control, but it is, wherever it is; whether it is a priest, an imam or politician who performs the negative social control. And I don't think there are any honourable Members here in the fine assembly who disagree with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212451	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212453	Well, I totally agree with that. And I think that the sexism that is taking place here at Christiansborg is only the tip of the iceberg I fully agree. Those who experience this sexism to the highest degree are the women who are in the most vulnerable positions. This applies both to those who are in low-paid jobs, but it also applies to those who are very dependent on their husbands, among others. because of the lack of a residence permit, including: on account of mutual dependencies. I just think it's really important that we don't isolate this debate to be just about Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212530	I fully agree, and that is also why I tabled four proposals in the last session on out-patient treatment for victims of violence and perpetrators of violence, on special police units, which I hope you will be in the negotiations on the police settlement right now. That is also why I organized a women's murder conference next month, and I did so last year as well. I and the Free Greens are very, very concerned about this area, and that applies both inside Christiansborg and in the conservative environments, and that applies everywhere in society. And it's a fight that I think we should all stand together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212608	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212609	Thank you very much. I would say that I was somewhat surprised when I saw the presentation of the Free Greens, because all the members of the Folketing are former members of the alternative party, who for me stood for solidarity, love and the assembly of the Folketing, etc. Now, sir. Sikandar Siddique and Mr. Uffe Elbæk saw and talks about frontal attacks against power... you have to understand that it is us here in the Danish Parliament... and that Danish companies should fear Free Greens, and about apartheid. It's all so violent. It seems that the Free Green Party is in fact such a form of militant rebirth of the party alternative. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212659	No, that is not understood at all. Our weapons are our words. We still talk to love and peace, but the crises have just become more serious. The racism crisis is more serious, the climate crisis is more serious and it just requires a serious tone, but I can assure the rapporteur that, of course, we are still advocating peace and coexistence and, of course, we are fighting for our democratic revolution democratically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212730	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212732	Now I am just a little confused, because one day the party chairman is talking about frontal attacks and about Danish companies fearing you, and now the rapporteur is talking about peace and solidarity. Well, which part is it? It's just to solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212749	I find it difficult to see what the rapporteur is confused about. Yes, Free Greens are a frontal attack on those who prey on nature. Yes, we are a frontal attack on those companies that emit too much CO2 but we are a democratic frontal attack, of course, and we are, of course, a political party working within the framework of legislation. So I do not see where the rapporteur is confused.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212820	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212824	Thank you so much. Some time ago, the rapporteur made a speech in the Chamber, which was a gauntlet, and now the rapporteur has made a speech here today, which is insanely insane. So we're good at it. The rapporteur asks whether it can really be true that there are those here for whom the rapporteur believes it is incredibly sinning, in other words those who have not acquired Danish citizenship. And yes, that may be true. Unfortunately, Danish citizenship has also been thrown around for too many years. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur something. A few weeks ago, the rapporteur was in the debate and when the rapporteur is asked about some things about crime statistics and so on. In relation to people with a non-Western background, the rapporteur answers that what Denmark's Statistics says he does not entirely agree with, and then he refers to something he has read in Information. And what I understand the rapporteur is referring to is a chronicle written by a guy named Daniel. Daniel's been studying political science, but it's kind of just a discussion paper in Information. And then I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether that is what is being done in the Free Greens: do you just use random speeches as an empirical basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212940	Thank you to the questioner! Speaking time has been spent. That is the rapporteur's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008212942	Fortunately, now there is a difference between Free Greens and New Citizens. For the Free Greens, the supreme frame of reference is the Basic Law. I do not know what frame of reference New Citizens have when you propose that everyone should have the right of birth, but just not if the applicant or applicant's parents are from a Muslim country. It is a complete clash with the principle of equal rights in the constitution. That is why the Greens believe that if we are to end the so-called parallel societies, then we must give people equal rights; then we must let people enter the heart of democracy. That is how we do away with the so-called parallel societies, and not by keeping people out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213032	Now the rapporteur is talking nonsense again. It is simply not true what the rapporteur says about citizenship. We certainly believe that far too many citizenships have been given. But the rapporteur also goes to the platform and talks about apartheid, and at the same time the rapporteur stands and is the banner leader of an organisation such as Black Lives Matter in Denmark which is actually in favour of segregation. What is the situation when the rapporteur himself goes out and speaks against apartheid in particular?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213101	Black citizens have been subjected for far too long to racism and police brutality, and this is a fight that I think we should all support. We must support Black Lives Matter because it is about fundamental human rights. It is about every individual having equal rights and feeling that he is equal in a society. And that is why the Free Greens will always stand up to all forms of discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213133	The next brief remark is from Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213135	Thanks for the speech. I also think it is an interesting debate that is now in the Folketing. I think it is a natural process when national conservatism begins to grow, that there will also be counter-play. Just as in Greenland there are strong parties of independence that we are, there are also strong parties of the Kingdom, and it is healthy to have a debate. But I'd like to get back to climate and stick a stick in it with Black Lives Matter and other things. I would like to ask the rapporteur about climate policy. Now we are talking about wanting a more aggressive or more noticeable climate policy. I would like to ask the rapporteur what climate action should look like if it is not through research that has now been set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213231	It is important for the Free Greens that we take our climate responsibility on board. It is important that we have a goal that also includes our shipping, our imports, our air traffic, so everything that does not count in the Climate Act today. It is good that we have a climate law, but many times we make it sound like if we just reach 2 degrees, everything is fine. No, two degrees is also a disaster. That is why Free Greens believe that we should make a Climate Act 2.0, which has all our responsibilities and all our emissions. Hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213316	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213317	Thank you for your answer. I am also thinking of the Greenlandic regions. Now many young people in Greenland are also very much in the field of climate activity, and here you are also in favour of greater cooperation with Denmark in relation to it. I am therefore also a little interested in hearing about the thoughts of the Free Greens about climate in the Arctic regions. What do they look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213345	Free Greens were officially launched a month ago. It was actually 1 month and 1 day ago. We come running with our policies in the various areas, and that is why I will save it for another good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213405	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213408	Thank you. I really think it's exciting and interesting to hear sir. Sikandar Siddique speaks here Thursday night. I understand that we must listen to the unborn children, and I do not know whether Mr. Sikandar Siddique wants to summon some midwives with their listening tubes. Because it may well be that this is the kind of thing we need to do if we are really to take it seriously. I also understand that Mr. Sikandar Siddique has the idea that there is a major problem with democratic apartheid in Denmark because half a million people do not have the right to vote. Now I just tried to break up with Denmark Statistics, who it is, and as I can see it, is 45%. of those who do not have the right to vote in Denmark • foreigners • other EU citizens. And the largest single group is Poles. Are they the ones that it is important to grant citizenship? Or what exactly is it, sir. Sikandar Siddique means by democratic apartheid, in relation to e.g. Polish workers who are in agriculture here in Denmark maybe for a number of years, and then they leave home again • do not have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213509	Well, I have the privilege that every single time I have to go to the platform, it's just before the Prime Minister. And that means that all the Members of Parliament are in the Chamber. And then I just want to say that we have a lot of citizens in this country, and the Greens basically believe that when you live in the country, when you've lived here for a long time and your life is here, we must of course include people in society. And we do the best by giving them equal rights that we give people the Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213553	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213553-2	Well, I can totally undo sir. Sikandar Siddique, that all members of parliament can listen. Well, that's no problem at all. I also hope that there are people outside the Chamber who hear how crazy this sounds. Because I really think it's a wonderful display of what you're dealing with here. And I ask: is that really sincere from Mr. Sikandar Siddique's side, that if you come as a Pole and work at a slaughterhouse in Denmark, in Horsens, there is for a few years and then you go home again and you have to have Danish citizenship? Is this really the message this evening, just before the Prime Minister's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213625	The message of the Free Greens is that when you have lived legally in Denmark for 7 years, you must have a Danish citizenship, automatically. This is a concrete proposal that the Greens will make. And we will, as I said earlier, because it is in relation to 193,000 descendants. So I would ask the rapporteur to imagine this: they have the same life as the rapporteur, can participate in every way, but every time there are elections they cannot participate in the absolutely most important democratic process. It's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213705	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213709	Thank you very much. The rapporteur, like me and the other people in here, is also elected to the Folketing. We are all members of parliament on an equal footing, all of whom have been entrusted with that task by the people. I do not really care what colour the rapporteur has and which country the rapporteur comes from and what the rapporteur believes in. However, I think it is impressive that the rapporteur starts every single speech by always giving a good offering speech. So I thank the rapporteur for that. Having said that, I cannot understand at all a chunk of the text of what is known as the proposal for adoption. Well, it was all about Muslims as well as green conversion and economics. I have no idea whether we should send our rapporteur on foreigners, our church rapporteur, our rapporteur on energy and climate, or our tax rapporteur, or our business rapporteur, because it was also a matter of the companies being slaughtered. Having said that, I would like to say that we have one of the strongest democracies in the world. What is apartheid about it? What kind of country does the rapporteur think we should learn from?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213814	Every time the National Conservatives and DF members try to ridicule what I am trying to say here, I know that I have hit quite rightly. Then I know I'm onto something. I understand that DF and New Citizens and all the National Conservatives with a very xenophobic view of people don't like me standing up here. I understand that, and I understand that the rapporteur is thinking that there is now a voice of diversity in the Folketing. Yes, there is. Yeah, get used to it! That is just what I want to say to the rapporteur. I would also like to say that I do not know how long the rapporteur has been sitting in the Folketing, but a proposal for adoption must be maximum. 150 words, and that's where you have to write what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213903	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213904	Thank you, and the rapporteur has also done so, and in particular in a language, so the rapporteur is also the only one who understands it, I would argue. I am a little sorry that the rapporteur is sinking to that level of xenophobia and racism and all that, because that is not what this is all about. I am also sorry that the rapporteur was unable to answer my question: what exactly is it that makes us have what the rapporteur calls democratic apartheid? Which country in the world does the rapporteur think we should look to in Denmark to draw inspiration so that we can become apparently more democratic? In fact, I believe that it is the opinion of most Members of Parliament that we live in one of the strongest democracies in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213950	Thank you. And that is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008213951	I do not think I can convince the rapporteur that we have discrimination and racism in Denmark, because DF has just been the banner of that view of people. But we have a ghetto law where we have double sentences in particular areas. We have a jewelry law that specializes in a particular group. We have plenty of legislation, lots of special legislation, lots of political rhetoric, which is particularly aimed at one minority group. And the funny thing about this debate is that first use the National Conservatives...
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214025	Thank you! There was 30 seconds available, and there is only room for one more question, and that will be from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214033	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur says that we are very strict about the rapporteur standing on the platform, and I can guarantee that from the point of view of the new citizens it is not about the person or the colour of the skin, but we may feel a little tight about the policy, and that is how it is when there is left-wing on the platform and you would actually rather have seen a citizen. But peace be to it. The rapporteur talks about the fact that the rapporteur's party wants it to be a right to have citizenship in Denmark after living here for seven years. Today, of course, we have a constitution, as the rapporteur himself points out, which lays down the right to grant citizenship to the Parliamentary Parliament, and that means that it is politicians and not civil servants who grant citizenship. Is the rapporteur interested in changing the constitution so that it becomes a constitutional right that you can obtain citizenship after seven years, that is, when you have been in Denmark for seven years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214133	Free Greens do not believe that it should be a political atmosphere that should determine whether Danish citizenship is acquired. We believe that this should be an administrative decision. We believe that it should be objective requirements that enable Danish citizenship to be acquired.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214148	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214150	I can therefore understand that this is a change in the constitution, because then we will change the way in which citizenship is granted today to become an administrative decision. So the Free Greens want a change in the constitution that has just been said to be so high-profile. Is it perfectly healthy, so is it just me who sees it as a little bizarre? Or what does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214221	No, I'm thinking it's more bizarre when New Citizens want to go against conventions. I think it is more bizarre when New Citizens challenge conventions and challenge the principle of equality in the Constitution. I think that's more bizarre. What the Free Greens want and want is for everyone to have equal rights, for children and young people born and raised in the country to have equal rights and for it not to be a political mood that determines whether or not a Danish passport can be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214252	Thank you to the rapporteur. The 30 minutes have now elapsed. That means that all the rapporteurs from the parties have been there, and that is why I can now give the floor to the Prime Minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008214309	Thank you, and first of all thank you for a good and a very good debate today, in a little different than what we are used to: greater distance between the chairs and not quite the same party, although Mr. Sjúrður Skaale can make us laugh in the usual way. It is exactly as usual, but in addition there is not much that is as usual; it is not the time. We are only human beings here in the Assembly, and we must look after each other in every way, and I would like to send a particularly warm thought to all colleagues and friends in the Radical Left and also a special thanks to Mr Tugendhat. Morten Østergaard for a very good collaboration over many years. We have been close colleagues in both co- and adversity, and with that there is also a welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as a new political leader of the Radical Left. We look forward to cooperation. I am also sure that I am speaking on behalf of everyone when I say that we have missed the President of the Left here for the debate and I understand that I have special shares in the disease. I am, of course, sorry to say this and, in those words, send all the best wishes for recovery quickly. A special thanks to the parliamentary basis: we have close and good cooperation with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten. We are well in the process of implementing our understanding paper. Of course, the Corona has delayed some of the work, but we have not changed our ambitions. An opening debate such as the one that has been held today is actually often characterised by the fact that most of the day, at least, we are discussing with goodness and respect. Against this background, I also think there is good reason to thank the leadership in this House, both Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Mrs Karen Ellemann, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Mr. Jens Rohde and Mrs Trine Torp, who have sat in the chair alternately for a long day and evening; you have managed the debate in an exemplary way. When I dwell a little bit on this, it's because I think the Folketing is capable of having a factual and proper debate, friendly teasing, we laugh with each other and mostly at ourselves, and somehow it's easier to hold onto that soberness when you're in the same room or at least face to face. You can also be digital, but I think we see too often on social media that words become too harsh, even in the political discussion, perhaps because many people feel that you can afford anything, especially if you act with anonymity. You cannot, because it splits and it creates polarisation, and I think there is reason to be concerned about it. What if we could write to others like we'd talk if we met with them face to face? I think it would be good for our democracy and therefore for the cohesion of our society. All of this is meant as a tribute to you and to the debate we still have at Christiansborg, but which fortunately every day also takes place in local communities, associations and school boards throughout our society. I am also saying this because, fortunately, in some debates at least, I can feel a reflection after the corona. I think that we should bear in mind that the small problems should not be allowed to be blown up to be the biggest and that the really heavy social problems do not disappear in the daily noise that I think characterises the public debate. We need reflection, we need education, we need vision. This also applies to the important fight against sexism. It is about all of us working towards mutual respect, equal opportunities, decentness, decency, equality and equality in the way we deal with each other, talking to and with each other, everything that is fundamental and should be fundamental to a genuine community. Then today there are more from New Citizens who have sought a bourgeois renaissance, and there of course I pointed out special ears. Because there is nothing wrong with great ambition, and the Renaissance had many well-known and distinctive personalities... Copernicus, Erasmus, and it was in the Renaissance that da Vinci painted Mona Lisa and yes, I am in favour of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has recorded a Christmas CD, but here you still strive a little higher, and although I, as a Social Democrat, think that from time to time something is missing in the bourgeois story, it is of course a little too much if for many bourgeois politicians themselves you think you are stuck a little bit in the Middle Ages, which is what precedes the Renaissance. So it's not that bad, I have to say. But the Renaissance is a very important period, both in European and Danish history. It is precisely during the period when our ancestors are able to build the bridge between dark times and modern times. It is also in the Renaissance that belief in science arises, and after today's debate it seems almost as if there is a need for a broader renaissance than just in the bourgeois bloc. At any rate, I need to remind you that it was in the Renaissance, for example, that the compass was invented, and it was also when Tycho Brahe convinced the whole world of astronomy, and if it could succeed then, then it must also be possible for this government to convince the Folketing that technology and new inventions can again be used to make the world a better place, not least in the climate area. But enough about the Renaissance, after it comes the absolute monarchy, and there was the explanation for the build-up of the Prime Minister's Office. The hockey staff has been mentioned many times, and it has, it must be said, also received a lot of criticism. Mrs Mai Villadsen, for example, asked. Mr. Jesper Petersen, if he, if he borrowed Mrs. Mai Villadsen, it was 1,000 kroner, would prefer that she drank along the way or instead bought a scratch card and thus paid back just before the deadline. That is a completely false premise. Well, sir. Jesper Petersen is torn, and he will never borrow 1,000 kroner. to someone from the Enhedslisten, and I'm sitting here today thinking that you have to be careful about the mix-up of sport and politics. Now Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, for example, mentioned earlier, and there was something with a bicycle helmet and some cycling there, and I myself, at one point, predicted something about extended playing time in a football match where it was actually not an option at all, and now we have started with hockey instead, and it might somehow fit very well for us. It's a contact sport, it's going a little crazy, and not often you actually see that the hockey stick gets smashed up directly during the game. It's not gonna be that bad. Unfortunately, you can't send anyone into the penal vault. It seems that you can still play green powerplay here, even though you have had government responsibilities for 14 out of 18 years and were finally convicted of climate beers. Well, I said in the opening speech that I actually understand impatience. This is true in relation to the climate, it is true in relation to nature, and it is true in relation to our environment. We only have the world to borrow, and right now we humans aren't looking after it well enough. Plastics in the oceans and in the bellies of animals, imagine that a corona crisis was needed to restore calm to the sea turtles, the ice sheet that disappears, the oceans that rise, bees that find it difficult to survive, species developed over millions of years we are wiping out in just one generation. We can and we must do more to take care of our planet. That is the promise we have made and we are making. Not being exactly the same place on the exact numbers does not mean that we are not in the process. We've made decisions about more untouched forest. We have decided to ban spraying on protected areas. There is now more land set aside, there are new national parks, and there is a ban on those thin plastic bags. We are in the process and we have committed ourselves to a quite high target, and the greenhouse gases will have to come to an end by 2030. In those words, then, we also clearly stress that no one in the government is against high targets, but when we agreed on the 70% target, we who were sitting in the room had the courage to acknowledge to each other that we did not actually know all the way there. Since then, only a little more than a year has passed and we still do not know away the last piece of the road. Nevertheless, in just over a year, in cooperation with industry, we have made decisions that reduce emissions by more than 5 million. t greenhouse gases by 2030. That's a quarter. Is that enough? No, it's obviously not. But in this one year we have already agreed on energy efficiency improvements in industry, more money for green gases, more recycling, phasing out oil and gas pine. Some people are still saying that we're just investing in technology. Mrs. Sophie Løhde said we used a wand. These are a little brave words, however, I have to say, given how the Left presented the well brownest agricultural package in man's memory and, moreover, wanted to conjure up a million electric cars with a proposal where there was funding to promote a thousand. If the Left has a wand, we'd like to see it because we're open of mind. I'm just not sure we need hocus-pocus. We need real investment this time in research, in development, in new ideas, as has been done in our part of the world since the renaissance that Mrs Mette Thiesen sought in the bourgeois camp. We have already almost doubled the money for green research. Now we're gonna put 10 billion. kr. to a new green room for manoeuvre. The task here is to make the right decisions. The 70-percent objective has been decided, it has been adopted, it is legal. There is a green light ahead, because we agree on that. I am not worried that Denmark will reach the 70-percent target by 2030, because that is what we need to do. I can be a little more concerned about whether we have forgotten why we have set ourselves a 70-percent target, because the ambition is actually higher and greater than only 70 per cent. What we can do in small Denmark is only the beginning. The whole idea of the 70-percent objective is to be the showcase that the rest of the world can lean on. The climate struggle does not stop at Kruså, and if we are to bring all the others along, it is not only about the goal, but also about the methods we choose. Could we achieve the goal by closing every other farm in Denmark, as some have suggested here, but elsewhere? Yes, that would help a good deal along the way, but do we believe that the United States or China or India would pursue that path? No, that's almost self-evident. I hope that we can continue to find a green road that is attractive and attractive to the others and does not discourage us and that we can show from the Danish side that this is not a choice between climate or education, climate or care for the elderly, climate or new medicine or climate or jobs. These considerations apply in particular when we are discussing a new objective. How far should we be in Denmark when we write 2025, i.e. in less than 5 years, at a time when Denmark is more challenged because of covid-19. The starting point for the government too is that the more we can reduce now, the better. It has more effect to slow down emissions now than it has in 5 or 10 years. So I agree that we aim the high level of government, that we aim high, also in 2025. But, of course, there are some questions, or perhaps some, because it comes with a price. And I think the time has come for that price to come on the table. Because if I was a Dane who was watching TV today and listening to one, it must be said, rather overall climate debate now maybe with even higher targets for 2025 than that which has been discussed earlier, then I would like some answers soon. Exactly how are we gonna get there in 2025? Who's gonna pay for it? Where, then, will the financial burden be greater? What exactly are the instruments that the parties who want us to set a very high target by 2025 want to use? What will this mean for the individual workplace, for the Danish companies and thus for the Danish employees or for that matter entrepreneurs who want to get started? What does that mean for welfare? Right now, we're negotiating cars. Everyone wants to make the electric cars cheaper, but we have to remember to tell you I don't think anyone got it said today in the debate that it takes time to replace a car park. A car lives on average for 15 years, and on the way to it we probably need to make the fuel greener, so we have an effect here and now. If this and the present effect are to be even greater, then we also have to ask that we start pointing that way. Quite a few percent in an intermediate period may be what determines whether climate policy is going to divide us as a society or we can continue to stand together. I would really like to appeal to us to choose the latter. We have seen it in other countries: when you go from words to deeds in climate, the people suddenly face each other. The Danish people are still united. And yes, a green mandate was given. Let's not put this at risk. My hope is therefore • and I am looking, admitted, at some parties more than others that we choose a road, a Danish road, both in achieving the 2030 target and in the 2025 target. So dear all of you! We need a 2025 target. It is time for each party to go back and make a concrete plan, so that we can get it on the table so that the Danes can look inside the table, what each of us is proposing, the consequences, and then we can make the right political decision this year on the road also for the next four years. I can't wait. I'm committed to it. We're committed to it. We also believe in it, but we will continue to insist that the climate struggle must be won by all Danes not only by some of us. The climate has filled a lot today, and thank you for that. This is an important debate. Something I can hardly understand, however, and allow me to be a little direct, is how little the global pandemic and the corona have filled. I simply find it hard to understand. We're in the middle of a global pandemic. The infection rates are also going to explode in countries close to us. People are still losing their lives. A lot of people get infected. We're in the second wave. Several countries are afraid that it will get out of control. When I listen to today's debate in this Chamber, it is as if there is hardly any more. That is not acceptable, because we are right in the middle of it with many inmates, potentially more yet, and with a Europe where many countries are also reintroducing tougher restrictions than those in Denmark, where cities are beginning to shut down again, where countries with which we compared ourselves in the spring are in real lockdown. I am not going to speculate on what this is all about, but an appeal to us to take this task as seriously as we did in the spring, because the disease flares up. It's serious. It's not the past. We're not over it. We are still away in the middle of it, and with the global pandemic the uncertainty for all Danes here is still away ■ our jobs and jobs. There are emerging positive signs of real progress in the Danish economy. There is reason to be collectively happy, proud of that, because it looks better today than any of us had dared to hope for then in March or April. The number of card transactions is now at the same level as it was at the same time last year. The figures cover some major differences, not least within the professions, and for many there is still a long way to go. For this government, therefore, it must, of course, be a major priority to manage Denmark well through the crisis. Therefore, and this has also been a little discussed today, our proposal is, after all, an expansive financial policy in 2021, where we set aside the necessary and large reserves both to cope with the challenge of the pandemic and to continue to restart the Danish economy, and we are convinced that you cannot save yourself from a crisis. This is true in relation to the labour market if we are to avoid losing those who already have an insecure connection. And nobody can tell me, even today, that it is an economic responsibility to abandon them with the most years on the labour market, because one is concerned about lowering the share tax for some of the most wealthy. With our proposal, we ask the most wealthy to pay a little more. At the same time, we guarantee the welfare settlement and the Danish economy. I think there are some things to be taken care of with the kind of ■ of you, even here in the Chamber, who still do not recognise the need for a previous pension for those who are most worn out, who may be making the same mistakes as some others made in the 1980s and in the 1990s in the field of foreigners, namely that one has simply got too far away from the reality in which Danish employees live. Because when you can talk about wear and tear and about some of our unskilled and skilled people in the way that the debate goes again, it is more and more like the foreign debate, that you will start from your own life and how you feel, rather than seeing how much difference there is in this society. That is why we are going to go the way of investment and do more of what we are good at, both on the green and on the digitalisation, which has been briefly mentioned today, in terms of getting better technology, new collaborations and new trading partners. In economic policy we must build on everything we can, where we are strong, and therefore we must support Danish export companies. Earlier today, a broad majority in the Folketing agreed on 27 new measures to restart exports for nearly 0.5 billion. kr. It's an important deal. Thank you. During the evening break during the debate, the Minister of Industry has negotiated compensation for Corona affected companies and suppliers, cafés, restaurants and bars, which face challenges as a result of recent restrictions. We must restore the Danish economy, and we are in the process of doing so. We must use the money wisely and intervene where it is most needed, at the right time and to the right extent. Sometimes it takes some ice in your stomach, especially when you like to be in control, like me. Because we are still sailing away in unknown waters, which is why it is important in the eyes of the government to keep some of the powder dry, because there is still uncertainty. Then, in the usual way, we have had good speeches, speeches and questions from the North Atlantic MPs. Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a strong emphasis on the Kingdom community and the need for us as Danish politicians to tell the whole story about Greenland. There were exciting ideas in relation to climate change and fisheries in Greenland, and there was also an emphasis that we are also making really positive decisions together and that we have a common obligation to tell that story. Thank you for your excellent contributions on security policy in the Arctic. There is no doubt that several areas of responsibility, including areas which may have been taken home, suddenly have a security policy dimension, as was said. It will be difficult to keep things separate in the world picture we are looking into today, and it requires a much, much closer dialogue and much, much closer cooperation on foreign policy than that which the Kingdom community has been used to in the past. To Mr. Edmund Joensen: We fully support the Faroese wish, which is also being put on the platform today, for modernising relations between the Faroe Islands and the EU, among other things. in the field of trade. I have therefore, together with the lagman, written to the President of the European Commission, and the President of the Commission has replied that the European Union is prepared to further develop relations with the Faroe Islands. So that work too is set in motion. Furthermore, I would also like to acknowledge the words that we must jointly take responsibility for the security policy dimension in the North Atlantic, and moreover also acknowledge the words about the need for enhanced cooperation with the United States. Finally, to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale: I have completely given up answering just as cheeky and funny back, although I would almost like to do so with the chairman sitting in the chair today, but I must not do that. You could repeat old quotes, but we don't. It is really, really important, also in relation to the upcoming Arctic Capacity Package, that we have close cooperation with each other, including increased focus on being able to monitor the large geographical area we jointly represent, thereby strengthening our presence. Finally, I would like to say that there have been many good speeches, many good questions and speeches. I must admit that I have been impressed by two interventions in particular. First, Mrs Pernille Vermund's story about Cecilie and that night, or dark night, the rape is committed by a man with Somali background. I'm touched, I'm listening, and I'm really sorry it's going on. I am saddened on behalf of all victims who are today the victims of a very brutal and stunned violence and crime in our society. Therefore, in order to make a long story short, we also want the government to expel more criminal foreigners than is the case today, because of course it must have a consequence when you commit crime. I have no understanding that a Danish hospitality is being exchanged for rape, gang crime or drug trafficking. So we would also like to expel more. The second speech, which also made a great impression, was Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's gripping story and stories about the exposed children, with tears rolling down her cheek. It was a speech that made everyone in the Chamber listen. We also know some of the history behind it, but we know all of us who are here, that there are children in Denmark, that there are too many children in Denmark who tonight are alone, who are left to themselves and their own destiny, who experience a mother or a father or both, who do not live up to their parents' ability and thus fail, and who in too many cases also experience that we others do so because society does not always catch them because the safety net is not strong enough, and because in too many cases we do not yet have the ability to put the most vulnerable children ahead. We have announced new initiatives on the legislative programme, and I hope that we can use this parliamentary assembly to produce some real results for these children. In our view, this time we need to give them more rights, sometimes also at the expense of their parents. And in the midst of a global pandemic, the most important task for everyone in this room is to look after the Danes and Denmark very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221102	Thank you. I can then inform the Prime Minister that I had been looking forward to asking the Prime Minister questions today about our common past, but there is also the Prime Minister in control, so unfortunately that will not be possible. Therefore, I must immediately give the floor to Mrs Inger Løbberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221124	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for this fine review of what has happened today, some of it in a humorous Despite the fact that the Prime Minister got around well, it has to be said that there were issues that were not touched on, and that is, of course, one of the things I would like to ask about here. Up to the last elections, it has to be said that the President of the Social Democratic Party, who is also the current Prime Minister, was very precise about exit centres in Denmark and said very, very clear that there would be a new exit centre no matter what. Now here a year and a half after the money is spent, Lindholm is canceled, and there are incredibly many criminal aliens • they are at Kærshovedgård, and they are a major nuisance, but also insecurity for many neighbors and residents in the area. Therefore, it is not only on behalf of the Left, but on behalf of a great many people in the Ikast-Brande area, that I am now asking: when will the third exit centre be? The money has been spent, as I said, and the plans have been cancelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221243	Prime Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221244	Can't I say two things to that? First of all, and I say this quite without shame and without ducking, either on my own behalf or on behalf of the government, that when, as a country, you have to deal with a global pandemic that will have to do it in the spring, there will of course be other political tasks that will be delayed. And it is certain that I am going to say this a number of times in this debate and I am doing what I said before completely without shame: of course it is the case that there are other good political projects that have been delayed because there was one task in 2020 that came to be more important than everyone else, namely to save the lives and health of the Danes. One of the tasks that we have not managed to resolve at the rate that we would like to see is the question of a new exit or return policy, and thus also to provide a solution to the problem that Mrs Inger Købberg rightly points out, namely that there is a local community with an excessive task, and that is why we need to set up a new exit centre. The government is in the process of working, and it's of course in this assembly that it's being presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221352	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221353	Thank you. We did not really get an answer this morning, which is why I was actually hoping that the Prime Minister could be a little more specific. Now the PM says it's because there's a pandemic. It is now not because I have seen the Foreign Minister being heavily involved in the pandemic, and I think that the Foreign Minister could have worked with an exit centre while the Prime Minister was working with the pandemic. Having said that, it comforts me a little to hear that it stays in this collection. Will it also be before Christmas holiday that you will present where this exit center will be and the money will be put in place? 'Cause you spent the money... they're gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221441	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221443	At least it's gonna be in this assembly. I'm not setting a precise date. The task is important, and I know that there is a local community that is suffering from the burden that is that so many people are gathered in one place who, by the way, have to leave Denmark. The money should not now be so worried about, because the solution chosen by the previous government was an unnecessarily expensive solution to a problem that needs to be resolved and where it is also our clear conviction that it can be made cheaper than what was planned in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221517	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221521	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answer in this debate. See, in June, in one of the last hours of questioning that we had before the Parliament's so-called sitting-free period and before the EU summit on 17 July, we had a debate down here in the Chamber on the increased costs for the European Union if the European Commission's proposal went through. The Prime Minister said at the time that we would need somewhere between 3 and 5 billion. kr. extra a year and where should the money actually come from. Then the Prime Minister went on to say: "Where will that money come from? I cannot simply conjure them up, even though I am a great supporter of the European Union. So it is either from savings, tax increases or the absence of other initiatives. I just think that before you go down that track and say that it is a really, really good idea with a larger EU budget, it is fair enough that we are starting to have a discussion about whether it is from the climate or education or where you want to take that money from. Because I don't have them. Now, after the summit this summer, we have a bill of 4.5 billion. kr. extra. Where does that money come from? Where does the Prime Minister take them from the climate or education area or from tax increases or savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221630	I remember that debate and it was good that we had it in the Folketing. I and the government would have liked to have seen a lower EU budget. We would also have liked to see a better balance in the EU's recovery fund. We moved the final result in a better direction, not least thanks to very strong European cooperation in what is now referred to as 'The Frugal Four'. So we got some excellent Danish results home. It is the case with the expenditure we have on the European Union that it is now incorporated and, as it were, budgeted in our Finance Act. But it is no secret that if you did not have an increase in the EU budget, you would have had the funds available for some other tasks. Into the story, though, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen said so precisely that I can barely repeat it in exactly the same way, namely that the whole of Europe is dependent on the whole of Europe also coming out of this crisis, including Denmark. So the overall result is actually good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221742	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221743	Why is the Prime Minister not subject to the same requirement to be able to answer questions as she asks others? What happened in June was that the Prime Minister asked some of the parties of the Folketing to answer this question, that is, if we had a larger EU budget, where would the money come from? And the PM even said she didn't have the money. Now she can just say that they are budgeted in the budget. Why is it that the Prime Minister should not be able to answer the same question she is asking others to answer if, moreover, you want a larger EU budget? Although the Prime Minister says that they are now budgeted in the budget, I would like to know: what has been rejected? Is it just increased borrowing? Is it just part of it, or is it from savings on other things? Are these things that have now been abandoned as priorities? It is quite interesting for the Danish Parliament to get an answer to the question that the Prime Minister himself asked the Danish Parliament's parties back in June.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221830	But the Prime Minister has to answer all the questions that are being asked. Then you just have to remember to ask the question. I was just a little faster to ask that question the other way. I did so at the time, because I thought it was too free, not least for the Left, that it would not take the ordinary and, in my view, responsible view that when we give mandates in EU policy in major key areas, we do so, of course, broadly in the Folketing. There were some parties that followed and lived up to that in the usual way, and then there was a party that chose to stand outside, while at the same time criticising the presentation made by the government at the time. I thought that was just fresh enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221915	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008221918	Thank you. And thank you for your greeting to our party. It is true that we have had a hard day, but I can calm or deter you by temper, and how much one fears it is that we are still here and that we are the same radicals. So I look forward to working together as well. I would like to thank and acknowledge what I hear as an obligation to set an ambitious 2025 target. And it is quite relevant to ask what the price of it is and how we get there. We're gonna make our bid, too. I would also say that it was perhaps very relevant for the government to present a plan on how priorities should be linked. Then there will be a plan for how the greens will be economically linked; how we will be able to afford the green priorities and at what level and afford the welfare that we in Radicals would at least like to give priority to, but I hear that the government will?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222032	There are two priority discussions in this. One relates to how we organise our economic policy in this country at all, and it is clear that 2021 will hopefully have seven or nine rights! Knock under the table is a special year. In other words, the Ministry of Finance expects us to be back in 2023 in a sort of normal economic situation, and that is why I say bank under the table and seven-nine-tenths! Because then it's • understand me rather mildly let go when you have 2020 in the back of your head. However, 2021 is a special year in which we want to pursue an expansive fiscal policy because we simply do not believe that we can save ourselves from the situation we are in. So there is something about the fundamental economic priority, and it is clear that the handling of a global pandemic is a different condition than if this had been a more normal year. And then there is the priority of the instruments in order to achieve a result in 2025. It's two very different sizes. They want to meet at some point, because the initiatives that the parties want must also be financed. That is why I believe that we need a more global climate discussion which, in reality, also goes across the many and ambitious negotiating tracks that have already been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222155	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222157	Thank you. Yeah, I quite agree with that. It is true that we are standing for some uncertain years, but nevertheless plans are being made so that they can be changed, even when the uncertainty arises, it is vital for us that the green track and the economic track are linked, because we also need to be able to finance our green priorities and carry out the priorities together. And there aren't many years till 2025. Then we'll have to take cutlery of corona and the consequences it has on the road. We also agree that it is time for an expansive economic policy now, but then you have to have a plan for what will happen afterwards. That is what I am asking: will the government come up with such a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222245	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222247	I mean, we're talking about when we need to get back to balance. This path has already been set out in connection with our draft budget. What is also crucial is what we are using the expansive fiscal policy for. And then it is quite right that we need to ensure, together, that there is room for the necessary climate investment, but I also hope that we still agree that there should be room for manoeuvre for our welfare society. Because the climate is important and a clear green mandate was given, but I also believe that last year's parliamentary elections were also a welfare choice. Us, who today make up the majority here in Christiansborg, also got a mandate from the Danish people to start correcting some of the challenges that are in our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222330	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222333	Thank you. I would really like to pursue that track with the vulnerable groups a little, because when we talk about climate and we talk about corona and we talk about recovery in the Danish economy, there is plenty of space and plenty of speaking time for it in the Prime Minister's answer, but when we talk about the vulnerable groups, there was incredibly little speaking time, which I do not really think is the Prime Minister's own priority in the heart. That is why I would like to talk about this with, among other things. people with disabilities. Right now, they are increasingly seeing municipalities not delivering on what are their legal rights. They experience municipalities that say: Yes, yes, it may be that you need a little more help, but we do not have the economy for it. Then people with disabilities choose, for example. to pursue it by the Ankestyrelsen in order to subsequently get right at the Ankestyrelsen, not only once, but several times, but still not away in their municipalities experiencing what they are entitled to. I think this is a huge problem, and it is not, of course, because I have any problem with municipal autonomy, but it cannot be the case that people with disabilities have to change municipalities in order to actually get their basic rights delivered. I am thinking that the government must react to that too. It is, of course, a common ambition to provide for vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222457	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222458	Well, thank you for that question. It is an important topic to take part in an opening debate. Now there is a very, very big difference between what it means to be a person with a disability in function. It is, of course, from the fact that it hardly has an impact on the life one lives, that it can have a complete and absolutely determinative effect on the life one has the opportunity to live; of course, we must also have all the differentiations in this discussion. It goes without saying, I hope, that there are some basic things that need to be in place in a welfare society if you have a serious disability and in those cases you should not be dependent on where you live. But there are also things that, in my view, may well be a local priority. I mean, where is it you want to do something special? Are there any groups that are particularly interested in taking action? And as Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr knows, the government and I are not in favour of everything in Denmark being completely the same, and here too part of the answer from me will be that if we can get the employee out of all that paperwork soon, there will also be more resources for the disability area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222607	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222609	I agree with that. I'm ready to set the public sector free. But we're talking about people with disabilities. I could, of course, mention Mrs Kirsten Rolfsager, who lives in the municipality of Gribskov, who has experienced that she no longer has assistance 24 hours a day, despite the fact that when she sleeps she suddenly risks losing her breath if she does not get the help of a machine. This is something Gribskov Municipality has chosen to save away. It's a case she's been conducting at the Ankestyrelsen several times, yet she doesn't have any help 24 hours a day. It actually means that it's risky for her to fall asleep because she can't get the help she needs. She has arthritis, she has disability, she actually wants to live her life and would have been able to do so if it weren't because we had a municipality that has quite specifically intervened very violently in her life. And I do not mention it because it is a specific matter; it is just an example of a matter which is quite serious and which is not being dealt with today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222703	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222704	Yes, and it is almost always impossible to stand on the platform and relate to a specific matter in which, for good reasons, I and others do not know all the details. I think I have to repeat what I said before: there are some things that must basically be in place for people with disabilities in our society. But, I think, we need to think more of our welfare societies in the direction of local decisions and therefore also of local responsibility. I think that, although we say that this is what we do not want, we still end up wanting to have even stricter legislation on the part of Christiansborg, and I do not think that is the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222745	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222748	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is not a secret that we in the Enhedslist have been relatively critical of the government's climate talk about hockey poles, but I would like to start by acknowledging something that I think the Prime Minister said quite rightly in his speech, namely that there are a great many people in our country who right now need to have a concrete plan for how the green transition is going to change their everyday life and their lives. And there I would just like to promise that we in the Enhedslist will, of course, work for both an ambitious but also a socially fair green transition, and there I am glad that I sense that we are on the same team. But I would still like to ask a few questions about the technology, although perhaps the Prime Minister thinks it is a little medieval. For the day before yesterday, when we opened the Folketing, there were huge numbers of people, especially young people, standing outside and demonstrating because they are concerned that we in the Folketing will live up to the climate law we have adopted. And this is probably due to the fact that the government has questioned the 70-percent target slightly or at least questioned it by saying that very much has to be achieved 5 minutes by 2030 with new technology. I understand that it may be attractive and sound cheaper, but my question to the Prime Minister is just: what if that technology does not succeed? So what does the PM do 5 minutes by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222921	Then the Prime Minister must be allowed to speak. We have 28 speaking times, so please try to keep you within speaking time. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008222930	You can also skip if you think it's too late, but of course you decide for yourself. No one in the government has said that we have to wait for 5 minutes for 12 or 2 minutes for 12. Why on earth should we mean that? We have said with open eyes that we want a 70-percent target achieved by 2030. But why should we, as Danes, be on top of all the achievements that not many people in the current Parliament now have shares in, because we are simply too young for achievements, which this Parliament has been able to make decisions about over the years, so don't think that it should be part of the strategy? When, for generations, we have been able to make decisions that enable us today to produce clean energy thanks to Of course, it cannot stand alone. It goes without saying, but why should we not continue along the path that we have already chosen in Denmark and which is a unique international success?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223051	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223053	Yes, of course we must also bet on technology, but I would like to give you a few examples of why I can be concerned about examples that have nothing to do with the climate: it is the Great Belt Bridge, it is the Metrocity Ring, and it is the Super Sick House in Gødstrup. What do they have in common? These are huge projects that have been delayed. It doesn't have much to do with the climate, yet. For the government, much of its policy towards 2030 is based on green fuels, which come from building large energy islands. They are good, the fuels are good, but large construction projects are often delayed. If that happens, what's the plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223134	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223135	Sorry, I thought for a moment that what brought together some of these great visionary projects was that Enhedslisten had voted against them, and that is also true. There is still an amazement in some of us that you were against the Storebælt Bridge. And there are still missing parties that are against the subway. But it is brilliant that there is now a metro in Copenhagen, and it is also brilliant that we have a Great Belt Bridge. I mean, when I tell my own kids that when I was their age, there wasn't a Storebælt Bridge, they think it's a lie. But that was not, I must understand, because at that time we were opposed to the very, very exciting future projects which today unite our country. Yes, they can be delayed. Of course they can. That is why it is a good thing that we are already close to doubling the green research funds so that we actually make sure that we are not too late.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223227	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223230	Thank you. First, a quick comment, and then I will go to the question immediately. I cannot really understand why the Prime Minister is wondering so much that there has not been a discussion today on corona. I think that many of us may feel that we have not missed that discussion since March, so I do not think there is any reluctance to do so. Perhaps we are just thinking that there should also be room for other things in politics, and then I think that if we are to keep bringing the people along, it is good to have a reminder for everyone, and perhaps especially technicians and professional staff, that it does not matter if things make sense in the restrictions that are being imposed and that it is not just theoretical that they do so. Then I have spent almost all my speaking time, but there was something I could not have included in my presentation. I would just like to ask you a question about a health reform. It could be connected to this, too. The old government plus the Danish People's Party made an agreement just before the elections. As far as the regions are concerned, we did not get a broad agreement, but that does not change the fact that there will still be 200,000 or more runners in the years to come and there are many other challenges. I understood this a little bit at some point that the Prime Minister has some sort of board that says that we should only discuss this in 2022 or 2023. Could you consider bringing it forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223353	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223354	Yeah, we do, we move it forward, and let's make a broad health deal next year here in the Folketing. And so let us do it, as I said with all due respect, for the previous government did not succeed, because a health agreement should be broad. It should be broad, because it happens that there may be a change of government. Anything can happen. It has to be wide. It is quite true that we need health reform. We can see here during the covid-19 some very, very positive things in our healthcare system, namely that we have a health service with a staff with a very, very high level of professionalism, which can also adapt incredibly quickly. We have all learned a lot from the point of view of health during this year, but there are some unresolved problems. For example: We don't have enough doctors all over the country to take an example. As another example, we still need to have proper cooperation between what is happening in the municipality in the area of the elderly and what is happening in the medical profession and what is happening in the hospitals. So, yes to a broad health agreement next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223500	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223502	It is close to being the best news of the day, I think that next year we will be able to have this discussion because there isn't much time for it. I'm really glad. For as I remember the discussions we had and the presentation made by the previous government, there was a broad recognition, also in the then opposition, in the Danish Regions and in many other places, that many of the elements were actually right and good. Then it stranded on a discussion about regions or not. I shall look forward to that, because I think it is very, very necessary, not least for the sake of our patients and the many runners who are currently running around in the large hospitals and do not know where to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223547	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223548	I agree that there were certainly good elements in the health reform that did not materialise, especially with regard to this issue of how to strengthen cooperation between the many links that may be around the patient. I would say that the basis for making a health reform this time is actually better, because money is now set aside for 1,000 new nurses. That was one of the shortcomings, one might say, in the reform earlier. One of the things that the old health reform did not address was how we ensure that there are practitioners throughout the country. I hope we can work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223624	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223627	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for a fine speech and for supporting the desire of New Citizens that the criminal aliens who commit the most common crimes should, of course, be expelled if they are judged by Danish law. So thank you for that. I also believe that it means a great deal to Cecilie, who stood out with his name and face and who has done so precisely in the hope that we politicians take this seriously and when you are in power, you have the opportunity to do something about it. But my question is on something quite different. I note that the Prime Minister has come under heavy fire, both from his own parliamentary basis and also from the opposition, in relation to the climate debate. I am glad that the government has not gone along with this rabid wave and that it is not said that we now have to solve the challenges of the future with today's technology. Imagine if you'd done it 10 years ago... where would we be today? Probably not where we stand now. So thank you for that. The fact is that our emissions correspond to approx. 0,1% of global emissions. This also means that when we increase the target from 40%. At 70%, as has been done, it has virtually no effect at a global level. So my question to the Prime Minister is: will the Prime Minister guarantee that he will not accept the rabid idea of solving the challenges of the future with today's technology, which appears to be ruling on the left and in the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223802	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223803	I think there is one crucial point that New Citizens overlooks or there are more, I would say. But right here there is one crucial thing, and that is what it means for the rest of the world, that a majority here in the Folketing has chosen to adopt a 70-percent objective. It actually matters. It matters how the other countries in a number of contexts are pushed towards higher ambitions. It means something to the European debate, where we will hopefully soon have the opportunity to move the bar up there. So the 70-percent objective is good for Denmark and for the climate, but it is also very important for the other climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223910	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008223911	One is prompted to say: Listen to us gungling. But frankly, if an objective of 70%. That means we're getting poorer, that is, if you don't solve this sensibly, it'd be crazy. I'm not talking about not developing. I'm just afraid that you get on with the rabid idea that you invest at the wrong time and that you wind up instead of developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224003	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224004	I agree so much that I am sincerely astonished that in the discussion here in the Danish Parliament there is also beginning to be the resistance to the use of technology. I am surprised, because I have to admit that, for example. I hadn't come up with this idea of building energy islands myself. It is possible that my good minister had come up with that idea, I do not know, but I had not had that idea. It was the Radical Left that presented me with that idea. Someone has convinced me of that. It puzzles me a little and I say it in all love and friendliness that some of you who have convinced among others. I'm telling you that we have to do this, now we're problematizing that we're actually gonna do it. So it's actually just to say that yes, we have to make the necessary decisions now, but the technology is coming
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224113	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224114	Yeah, that's logic. But let's talk about something completely different. Because I got a little dicked when the Prime Minister mentioned this with a pension for Arne. It was such a little bit about the fact that, in relation to those of us who oppose the initiative of the government, it is not because we disagree with the proposal. No, it's because we don't understand Well, instead of arguing and going after the ball you go after the man and say: It's the sender that's the problem, and therefore you don't understand what it is. And I got a little dicked about that. Probably especially, because when I look at my family, most of them are such workers who also suffer from a long and grueling working life. My dad's a butcher, and I can look at his shoulders and back and see how it goes. My mother's husband has tennis elbow and osteoarthritis on his knees, and what do I know, after a long life as a craftsman. So I actually know these people and have them close to life, and I actually have sympathy for the idea that you should be able to retire earlier if you are worn out. Even if you are not so worn out that you cannot go on early retirement. But that is not what the government's proposal takes into account: there may have been 42 years on the labour market, alternately part-time and on unemployment benefit, and even if you are healthy and bodily, you may retire early while, if you have been there 40 years and are completely worn out and suffer from osteoarthritis, yes, you cannot retire early. And that is the criticism to be made by the Prime Minister, namely that the Prime Minister's own proposal does not help the worn out. It only helps those who have been x years on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224236	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224237	Well, the post actually started well and then it was a little more along the way, wasn't it? For a thought and a word that a woman who has been 42 years on the labour market and did unskilled cleaning work is actually not worn out at all, that is, that is what I find so infinitely difficult to comprehend. If you have been up early in the morning for 42 years and had hard physical work, there is a wear and tear. It is not certain that you are as worn out as some think you should be to get into some kind of service. But of course there is wear and tear, and there is certainly a very different wear and tear than the one that applies to people with a working life where you do not use your body. And, by the way, with a completely different working environment in the labour market 42 years ago than today. That's the clutch I can't believe you don't make. Actually, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224348	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224349	What I cannot understand, then, is that the government is not doing is the coupling and the logic that is in that you may well have been only 38 years on the labour market and be much more worn-out than the one who has been 42 years or 43 years on the labour market, even if he has done physical work. After all, people are not taken into account for being different. In this way, you end up wanting to end an injustice, and then you create a greater injustice in trying to rectify, because you do not take account of the individual. In other words, what we ourselves have proposed in the Liberal Alliance is what we call a free pension: to give people better opportunities for tax-free payments to save themselves so that they can decide for themselves whether or not to withdraw from the labour market earlier. Would it not be possible to imagine that this is something that needs to be done, that is to say, to give the individual more flexibility and responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224429	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224431	But that is because we are back at the core: should there be a right, or should there not be a right? Everyone here knows that if there is no right, there will be some of those who need it that will not be granted it. This applies to all other schemes and benefits. So it can be said that that system has a backside. On the other hand, if you make a right, you know that you will not hit 100% precisely. On the other hand, you do something else: you say to people: when you have worked for so many years and have done everything you should, you should not ask anyone, you should not be searched. Then you can be allowed to make your own decision. And how I hope that we will have an agreement so that we can make that decision ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224515	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224518	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister says she's not worried that we can achieve our 70-percent reduction target by 2030. What impression does it make that the Green Student Movement, the Green Conversion Council, Greenpeace, the Grandparents' Climate Action, the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the World Nature Fund, the Climate Movement in Denmark and the Climate Council are deeply concerned about whether we achieve this goal and say so in all types of media? Well, how can the Prime Minister be carefree when all those who know the most about this are deeply concerned? Doesn't that impress the Prime Minister at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224555	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224557	Two things. I think it would be good to have a little less concern and a little more optimism in this area, because I believe that Denmark has all the prerequisites. We're in an extremely privileged place to deal with these climate challenges. We have people with us there is a green mandate. We already have a more developed technology than many others. We have excellent companies, we have some of the world's best employees. We are one of the countries with the very best conditions. What if what we sent out from here was not only a concern, but also a real optimism, a force of action, a will to make it happen? Then it could be that it rubbed off on some of those out there who demand it and who depend on the decisions we make here. I do not believe that it is concern that creates climate change. I think it is a force of action; I think it is a will and, of course, an optimism.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224702	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224705	The concern comes because we are running out of time, and all those who know something about it do not think that we have come far enough. Well, we have to express our concern when we feel it and when it comes from the expertise. Now the Prime Minister is asking what ideas the parties that require a high milestone in 2025 have for achieving the goal; those are the alternatives among them. We would like to see a partial target of 60%. And what I would like to say is, as the Prime Minister asks about ideas, that our idea is a uniform CO2 What does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224821	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224823	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the final lines here. I have to say that when the Prime Minister thinks that the Danish economy will be assured of the future by withdrawing 10,000 people from employment and raising taxes and taxes by a billion, one will be slightly concerned about that future, because in that case it is a Denmark that will become poorer and thus have less chance of investing in the green transition, good cancer treatment and some of the other things we would like to do. What I really want to ask the Prime Minister about, since the Prime Minister thinks that we have talked too little about corona here, is the promise that the Prime Minister made to the Danes on national television during Corona, where there was a party leader debate in May, and where the Prime Minister said about tax increases that it would be a strange answer to Danish business, which is in a really, really difficult situation. And then my question is just why the government has chosen to do exactly the opposite of what the Prime Minister promised the Danes and Danish companies on national television in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008224936	We have to go back a few years in history when it is said in the way it is said by the Left. In 2006 we make a broad agreement here in the Folketing on the welfare settlement. The welfare settlement is on a very, very clear note, namely that there is a pre-retirement wage, because if not all, so at least a large part of us knew that with an increase in retirement age, there would be too much inequality in retirement age, and therefore there should be an early retirement scheme. The elected Left then, it has to be said, quite brutally, almost de facto to abolish. This means that a number of people who, by the way, have noticed that they have gone to work and paid taxes, so that many of us who are in here today have been able to go to school at all and get an education, cannot now withdraw worthily from the labour market. That is what we are correcting. It is not all sorts of other things that, from the point of view of the Left, we went from what we agreed in 2006.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225038	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225040	So, I asked the Prime Minister about something she said herself in May on national television, a promise to the Danes, to Danish companies that it would be in the middle of a major and serious economic crisis, and I quote the Prime Minister: a very strange answer if taxes were increased. And then I just ask quite simply: why is it that the government has chosen not to keep the promise made to the Danes and to Danish companies in May, in such a serious economic crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225114	The increase in taxes, Mrs Sophie Løhde among others. pointing out, of course, is the desire on our part for a social contribution from the financial sector in order to be able to finance what we talked about before. And I'm actually being seriously provoked when a question about some of those who have worked most in this society and who have built Denmark up the juice with body and soul turns into a question of labour supply and nothing else. We went to the polls to finance early retirement, among other things. with a social contribution from the financial sector. What we said before the elections is what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225148	Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225150	Thank you. It was, in fact, just a follow-up to that question, because I was a little surprised. Is it not true that it was Mrs Mette Frederiksen who was Minister for Employment at the time when the bill was tabled that changed the salary? And how could you do that if you are so fervently opposed to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225208	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225209	Yes, for the simple reason that the Danes chose back in 2011 that the majority in favour of the de facto abolition of the post-retirement salary had been retained after the election campaign. Social democracy went to elections in 2011 for the post-retirement pay to last. We did not get a mandate from the Danes to correct that. We were part of a government. There was no majority in favour of social democracy's policy. But this is not, of course, a problem which relates primarily to social democracy. This is a problem for ordinary Danish employees. There was a time in Danish politics when there was a healthy competition between the Left and the Social Democratic Party about who actually stood on the side of the employees, who really was, not just in words, but in deeds, concerned that the ordinary employee should have proper conditions. Let's get that competition back. For Arne and all the others who have served their military service in this community deserve a worthy withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225309	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225311	Thank you for that and thank you for the clarification that it was Mrs Frederiksen who was behind the early retirement change that she helped to implement. That is the truth behind it, but let us return to the climate debate. I understand that the Social Democratic Party has now become very concerned about technology, and we in the Left are also. We share many of the same views that technology can help us greatly. In the current negotiations we are having on the reorganization of car taxes, the government is suggesting that 100 000 more electric cars should come in, but, in this respect, there is also something that is very strange, namely that the electrical charging infrastructure should not be expanded until 2035. I simply cannot understand how one can be so slow about it. Now that you place such a crucial emphasis on having a major technological leap, is it not very slow to first have the electrical structure in relation to charging stations in 2035?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225412	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225413	As you know, we are debating the Left and the Social Democratic Party and a number of other parties about this, and we can be just as ambitious in the green area as we want to be together. We just need to be able to finance it. Where we are now, we have to move away from the headlines and objectives. I am pleased that so many parties support the 70-percent objective and that we have a very good climate law. These were good decisions we had made in the spring, but it is now that it is starting to be difficult, and that is why my call is of course at the negotiating table where we sit together there we can go as high or as low as we want us to be sure that it can also be financed and that it does not hit unduly hard, among other things. the ordinary Danish family, who still need a car to be able to transport themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225504	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225506	Thank you. I would like to continue a little, because, as the Prime Minister says, we must move, and we must not just talk about it. I want to talk about something completely different, and that's security. The Prime Minister has talked a lot about this, and there has also been a press conference today about it, namely that we must have security back. I think there are many of us who agree with that. That is also the right thing to say. In connection with the Lindholm Travel Centre, the government has said that it will not be implemented, it will be implemented otherwise, but it has just not come up with any alternative. As for the people who were supposed to be at the Dispatch Center Lindholm, we are actually talking about 100-125 people who should be accommodated, and it should actually have been inaugurated in 2021, which is shortly. Just to mention some of the people we are talking about, there are, in fact, 12 of those who are suffering from rape or attempted rape; 8 have committed murder or attempted murder; several have committed war crimes or serious crimes in their country of origin. They're the ones walking freely now. Where are they going? And does it create security that there has not been any clarification about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225606	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225607	It's quite important for this debate that we don't tell any Danes that this group can't also create insecurity if they had been placed on the island of Lindholm. After all, there is a reason why all the citizens of Kalvehave really, really feared for that location. To Vordingborg people were worried, yes, to Stege, up to Nyord, out to Borre people were worried, because the Danes have figured out that these citizens are not someone you want to have as a neighbor. Some of them are dangerous and serious crime has been committed. I wish they would all be sent out of Denmark immediately, because they should not be here. So we must be careful to give the Danes a picture that it will be safer somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225712	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225714	Yeah, today they're at Kærshovedgård. Just in 2019 the rules have been broken 40,000 times. What kind of rules are you breaking? It is that you do not show up; it is that you do not go to the place where you should be. That is to say, you are free in society, and that is to say, people convicted of murder, people convicted of serious crimes. A great many of them are also convicted of drug crime. What could you imagine those people doing when they don't show up? That's why I'm just asking the Prime Minister, because now that you want to create security, I guess it creates insecurity that these people are running free now. If the Prime Minister doesn't want them on Lindholm, where they could be reasonably controlled, is it somewhere out there in the world, is it somewhere else they have to be? What kind of solution does the Prime Minister have?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225757	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225758	Now the questioner has no more rounds, but if the questioner had had it, I would have asked if it was not quite understood that there is a ferry which is almost shuttled to the island of Lindholm. So if you had placed it there, they could go ashore at the Kalvehave, and then they could take a bus to Copenhagen or to Vordingborg or to Næstved or to a fourth place and commit their crime, create insecurity or have other kind of activity. The idea was not to lock them up on the island of Lindholm. No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225830	Then it's Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225832	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the words in his speech on education on Tuesday, because I fully agree that education is a pretty crucial factor for opening new doors in your life, but also for resolving some of the challenges that the crisis has come up with. That was also precisely why I proposed in the spring that we should set up and fund 5,000 additional study places. I am therefore surprised that it is now being proposed to remove money from education • 550 million. kr., which is referred to as marketing money, knowing that there is no marketing taximeter. So I hope that now I can get one: yes, we will do that when I ask whether we should not give up those savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225938	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008225940	I can at least say: yes, how glad I am that it will be included in today's debate, because I simply cannot understand the way in which this question has been returned. I simply do not understand why we should spend money in our country on commercial advertising of educational institutions. I don't understand. I'm almost provoked by it when that's what we spend our education money on. Why? Why should education in Denmark compete against each other for the same young people? What on earth does it give value to young people or to this society? That money can be spent far, far better. That's it. I am not shouting it, but it has been said and it has been emphasised. But to spend money on the marketing of training courses we said that before the election that we were going to save on, and we have proposed that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230033	After all, you have proposed moving 550 million. kr. From education to the police. And then maybe I'd like to tell the Prime Minister what some of this marketing is actually covering up. It covers open house, counselling, internship courses at study places. This helps to create some of the things that I believe both the Social Democrats and Radicals agree with, namely that we may be able to achieve a better gender balance in some of the educations where it is really biased. We can get education throughout Denmark, and we can help ensure better student match so that we get more students to stay on their education because they have chosen correctly. I would therefore like to know whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that all these things will remain there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230113	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230114	At the time a marketing of the courses in Denmark was made, it is a relatively new phenomenon that the Radicals were actually opposed to. At that time, you were opposed to a competition. I cannot quote anything precisely, but I can remember the discussion from, I actually think, the same thing that we Social Democrats think education is something you choose because of its content. It must have a local anchoring, it must be decentralized, and we do not want people to sit and fight each other for the same groups of young people. That is why we should really be able to go along with this question. And I just want to repeat what I said before: there is so much that is good to invest in education, but to spend money on marketing and on advertising I simply cannot understand should be wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230200	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230201	Thank you and also thank the Prime Minister for the speech today. Nature was mentioned, and it is good, because it is absolutely necessary that we focus on nature. We need to think about the butterflies, the beetles, the wild bees. One is that we must live up to an election promise of 15 national parks and 75,000 hectares of untouched forest; another is that there is also a need for real protection of these areas, real protection of nature. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is in agreement that we will also find out how we are doing the real legal protection of nature so that it is guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230238	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230239	The real legal But if you look at it historically, Denmark is also pioneering here as one of the first countries to at all preserve nature.I should not mention that it was a social democrat who was behind it at the time. But we have quite a strong history in Denmark to preserve nature areas and also to ensure access for ordinary people. We also have a very strong tradition of being an agricultural country, and we have a very cultivated country. That is why we are now in a situation where we have too little free nature. This applies to forestry, as is also the case in the oceans, but this is particularly true in the open country, where access to our fantastic animals is also restricted because of the way in which Danish Agriculture is organized. So this is a very, very important task, but I'm not sure that I can fully answer the question I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230342	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230343	I am happy to give credit to a Socialist Minister this time too. As long as we protect nature, I don't care who takes credit for it. It is a question of protecting nature both on land and at sea, of not trawling in the Wadden Sea, when it is to be protected, of ensuring that we protect the nature we set off. It is about giving some rights to nature in the way that we fence it in more, and there I am not only thinking about physical fences, I am thinking about the zones we make. All it takes is a job to set aside the land. It also requires some legislative work, and that is actually what I would like to ask the Socialist Prime Minister, in other words, whether she will then be the woman who gets credit for this step for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230429	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230430	At least I will try to have an open mind. I do not dare to respond adequately to exactly how we are going to deal with this work, but I would like to make it clear that I feel at least as committed to biodiversity as I am to the climate. We cannot afford to do everything at once, and it is, of course, the government's lot to point out that we also need the money to fit in. But I think we can take some of the next steps in the area of biodiversity, some significant next steps in the area of climate change just so it has also been said that it is not because we have gone away from our ambitions, nor in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230511	Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230513	Thank you. After all, a prime minister cannot know everything about everything, and that is why I would just like to ask the Prime Minister to have a small introduction to how higher education is financed by his Minister of Education. Well, that's not really what I wanted to ask. On the other hand, I would like to return to the question raised by Mrs Sophie Løhde. I must confess that there was no very good answer from the Prime Minister, and it is a serious matter if you cannot trust what the Prime Minister says. After all, the Prime Minister said clearly on national television in May that it would be a strange answer to Danish companies in a crisis situation to take advantage of tax increases. So I would therefore like to ask the same question that Mrs Sophie Løhde asked, namely: how can it be that the Prime Minister gives exactly the answer to the many companies that are struggling to survive the crisis that we are all witnessing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230617	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230618	I remember very precisely the party leader round we had that evening, and what I am saying is that we do not have a desire for general tax increases, and we still do not have a wish for that. It cannot come as a surprise, and certainly not for the Left, that we have a desire to introduce a right to a previous pension and how it should be financed; that was what we voted for. We have made it quite clear how we intended to do this. But my position is the same as it was in May: we are not in favour of just raising taxes in general, and we need to take care of Danish companies and Danish competitiveness in the situation we are facing. And there is my position unchanged. Perhaps I can say, now that I have the floor, that it was also the night when the Left proposed a halving of VAT. Is this proposal still valid?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230711	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230712	I simply do not understand the answer to the question. I'm really upset. So you can just look at the Finance Act and other things that have come from the current government, and then you can see that there have been tax increases no less than 23 times. And then the Prime Minister stands on national television saying that the answer to the companies here and now is not further tax increases. And then you can just look at the Finance Act which has been presented and which was under discussion in the Folketing recently, and there are also tax increases. Thank you, President-in-Office. ) In May the Prime Minister could have told how exactly to finance the early retirement pension for Arne.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230754	Thank you. Then we'll have to get an answer now. Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230755	However, the funding of the pension to Arne, including the cancellation of some of the tax reliefs that the previous government has returned in 2009, so it must be a VK-government made at that time, we went to the polls. After all, we went to the elections to introduce a social contribution from the financial sector. We went to the polls, and we have put it forward, isn't that the way we're going to work? We go to the polls on something, and then we actually try to do it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230834	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230835	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister finds that we have not talked much about corona here tonight, and that is probably true too, but one thing that is certain is that while we have not talked about it, somebody out there has been in the process of dealing with it for us. It is our skilled and competent front staff in the welfare sector, that is, primarily in the health, elderly and care sectors, and, at the same time, we have been very grateful to them. But what is paradoxical is that some of them have the most grueling jobs, some of them are the most low-paid, and some of them, at the same time, perform the most vital social functions, have shown themselves to be the case here during the crisis. That is why the question is: is it not time we gave them a little more than thanks? And there is a good opportunity for that now, because there will be public collective bargaining here in the spring of 2021. We have proposed in the Enhedslisten that we should allocate 5 billion. kr. to a low-wage or equal pay pool targeted at our welfare sector, that is, our sosus, our nurses, our educators and our teachers. Will the Social Democratic Party not help to allocate such a pool to the public collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230949	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008230950	I am of the very, very clear conviction that one of the single most important social pillars we have is the Danish labour market model. It is one of the most important individual explanations that Denmark today is such a well-functioning society. That is why I have very, very much respect for the fact that the collective agreement system should not be politically determined or defined, and for that reason I do not think the proposal is good. In addition, I would like to warn against the fact that we are selecting groups that we believe are more important to society than others. It is true that the rapporteur says that spring revealed some vital work functions that may not have been taken into account by everyone, and the rapporteur mentions some of the important ones. But that applies equally to the private driver who had to be at work, the cashier who had to be at work, and those who work at the pharmacy had to be at work. So, compared to the fact that someone is more important than others, I really think it was revealed in the spring that there are a great many groups, including some who are often forgotten, who are really, really important to this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231104	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231105	It is quite true that we have the Danish model and therefore we cannot interfere in how agreements are made in the private labour market. But in the public labour market, we are part of the Danish model because we are employers, and if it is not we who have to bring the money as a public employer, who is it? That is why it makes sense to say that we are adding 5 billion. kr. into a pool that you can negotiate on because it's the only place the money can come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231134	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231136	But it is simply a matter of interfering. You can have all sorts of opinions about it, but what is simply interfering as much as you can, and that is not the political task. It's not, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231151	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231155	Thank you. I'm still a little new in politics. It's nice to be here, and I've been here for about a year now. I have to admit, I had a little trouble comprehending that when we were going on summer vacation, we were shut down. In fact, I was waiting for us to make some scenarios for the development of corona in relation to infection, in relation to compensations, in relation to what we could expect, but we should not. As well as deserved that holiday, I had hoped that we would make those scenarios and would like to join together. It is a job that would have done that many companies who felt extremely pressured during that time and still do so, and their employees had some sense of what direction it is going in: if we do this, this happens, etc. Can the Prime Minister explain why it should go to as long as seven months into the crisis before the government finally announces that there will be not scenarios, as I call it, but what you call an early warning system?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231255	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231256	Yes, it is quite right that we have agreed that we should have an early warning system. I really do want to say right now: be careful that we do not pretend that such an early warning system can do more than it can. I say this because some of the countries that have an early warning system are now facing a more difficult corona situation than we do, with greater restrictions and major closures, among other things. in capitals. All our experience from this year shows us that we can plan something, that we can foresee something, but our ability to have discernment and ability to act is the most important thing. And while the infection in a number of European countries is now rising very rapidly and in some places too we are getting out of control, we are actually in that situation now, seven or nine rights! Cross everything that crosses can, here in the room that we have stabilized the rise. Actually, we're seeing a fall. It shows that yes, we need an early warning system, but that our nose, our judgment and our ability to make wise decisions remain the most important tool we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231408	Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231410	But imagine, if we had actually made the scenarios; then it could have been that we could have done even better. On the whole, it is just really important that we focus on companies and jobs. We have been good at supporting and making solutions for this together, but there are still industries that we have actually left behind a little on the platform. In particular, there is a great deal of insecurity out there in many companies and in the workplace, especially when the government is just launching one tax increase after another, which, of course, has a bearing on competitiveness. This is true, for example. As the Ministry of Finance itself has said, the tax rate could be reduced from 22 to 19 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231450	Thank you! Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231453	So, there is no doubt that some of our major export companies, which also pay corporation tax, are in a more uncertain situation because the world out there is more uncertain. If we are talking about uncertainty, then it applies not least to some of our smallest companies, i.e. the small café, the small hotel, the small restaurant, and not all of them are paying corporation tax. So it is also an emphasis on the fact that companies are very different. Now the President has risen. But the thing about issuing restrictions with as short a time as we have experienced here, we must do everything we can to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231539	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231540	Thank you, Prime Minister. If you do not want to make the social cake bigger, but on the contrary make it smaller than it would otherwise have been, and at the same time there must be affordability and green conversion, then there are billions missing in the accounts. You can then borrow, but that would be unsolidarous and unfair to future generations. Then there is only one tool left to get the box to vote, namely the tax screw, and it screws the Prime Minister and the government over and over again, and now we can see that both the negotiations on Arne's pension and a future financial law have been screwed up again. In this context, I should just like to ask the Prime Minister if it is still the policy of the Social Democrats that 95 per cent is still going to be followed by all the Danes who are out there; perhaps not so many at this time. of the Danes will not experience a tax increase. Is that still the policy of the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231639	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231640	In other words, it cannot be denied that we have lost some of the viewers together during the day and here at the stage of progress. I'm gonna have to arrest that premise. Why doesn't the social cake have to be made bigger? And why doesn't the Left mention the fact that it's getting bigger? After all, there is a very large increase in structural employment in the labour supply up to 2025 ■ that is a very, very large increase. Even if we were to have a right to a previous pension and I would actually still like the Left to take a more active part in that discussion, because I think that would suit the Left, then we will make the social cake bigger and it must be made even bigger. That is why we are organising an economic policy in which we invest our way out of the crisis instead of the opposite. I'm gonna have to arrest that premise. Why doesn't the social cake have to be made bigger? It has to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231735	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231735-2	The social cake is getting bigger because of reforms that the Prime Minister is opposed to and has criticised. What the government has done is to make the social cake smaller, and that is where the government should be inspired by previous governments. But that is not really what my question was about. My question was: is it still the policy of the government, the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister that 95 per cent. by the Danes will not experience a tax increase? It's a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231806	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231806-2	Yes, it is a simple question, but it is quite simple to reproduce things as they really are. I'm not against reform. I'm not against reform. I'm not against reform. However, we will have a qualified discussion on what reforms are of a size. One of our suggestions on how to increase social cake is to introduce a 37-hour requirement for women, for example, with a non-western background that they should work when they are in Denmark. It is, of course, a reform that increases social cohesion and, moreover, it will also promote equality and certainly reduce social control. Makes the social cake bigger. Second-generation reforms, where we train our workforce, make the social cake bigger. It's a reform. So it is not true that this government is opposed to reform. However, we intend to carry out good reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231847	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008231848	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'd like to touch that dear hockey stick a little more. I've seen a lot of hockey sticks in my life because when you invest in startups, you see them all the time. Sometimes it's because the plan is like that; sometimes it's just a bad excuse, and that hockey stick never turns into anything but a stick. But I think it is dangerous to turn the discussion on the hockey staff into a discussion on whether one is for or against technology. I believe that no one who has signed up to the 70% target is against technology. We all agree with the government that technology is going to move this. But what concerns us is whether we are doing enough to push demand so that that technology enters the market. Because technology first gets some prices that can compete with the black if there are thousands of customers who demand it. That is why we must already take decisions that push that demand. I think that's where the chain jumps off. For many of us who believe in technology will also see some political actions that make it work. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that the government is pushing that demand enough with a goal of reducing emissions by 1 million in transport? In the next 10 years or that this is a ridicule of the dream of a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232007	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232008	Well, the discussion is moving in the right direction, because it is now being said that everyone agrees that technology should be used. I am so quietly aware that we are now devoting much more money to developing that technology than the previous government did. In fact, we do not have to go back many years to see that governments spared research in Denmark, what an entire Danish business community wondered about. Now we are back on an investment path not only an investment path, we invest more money than we did in the past. Then there's the question of how we're going to influence the market. Yes, we have to do that, and we have to do it in the right places, and that is why we are putting forward stronger strategic cooperation with industry. However, we will be pushing the market if we agree on an agreement on the electric cars soon. So I still hope that we will use more effort at the table, because then we will be able to make exactly as good an agreement as we wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232109	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232110	My question was mostly directed at the demand side, but the Prime Minister replied mostly in relation to the supply side, because that is where we are dealing with research. But let us pick it up on the supply side, because the way we get the research to work, in other words into the companies, into the development departments, is by the fact that we have a lot of risky investors who dare to invest in completely new technologies. And it does not make sense when the Prime Minister and the government constantly talk about investing in new technologies, that you then want to increase the tax on investment, because that is what you do. And that is only something we can replace with a large state fund, because here we are talking about entrepreneurs who need 100 000, 200 000 in investment from an ordinary employee, for whom we stand together with the government to fight. Why should they now be penalised more severely for taking the risk of creating new jobs? And I think I speak on behalf of all Danish entrepreneurs when I say: Stop yourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232155	Sir. Tommy Ahlers! Time's up. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232200	We can always discuss whether we have enough risk capital in relation to new entrepreneurs. We have already made a number, I think, of good political agreements, for example. on the Danish Green Future Fund, where there is money directly devoted to this area. We have also done something in relation to the Growth Fund. And that is where we can always discuss whether we have made the right cut, but I think that history also includes a tax credit. In the spring we decided to raise the research allowance in private companies, and it is now as high as it has not been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232239	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232241	Thank you for that and also thank the Prime Minister for the speech. There are a great many questions you would like to ask the Prime Minister, among others. how the Prime Minister will ensure a paradigm shift in the area of the elderly and how the Prime Minister, as mentioned earlier, will ensure how people with disabilities will not have to fight through an entire complaints system to get the help they need. But I have another question, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister, and then the Prime Minister can take the other questions as some would like. That is in relation to the penalty rebate that is currently in our legal system. When criminals have to pass through our legal system, when they come to the courts, there are some who consider that the matter has simply taken too long and then they simply get a huge penalty rebate. This means that there is not really any justification for justice for the victim. So I'd like to know if that's something the Prime Minister wants to say we don't want that anymore. We're not going to get a penalty discount for criminals in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232353	Thank you for that! Then we'll get the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232354	In any case, we need to bring them down in some places for too long a time. I do not want to stand on the platform and claim that we can solve all the problems, but we are sitting here right now looking at the police and the prosecutor's office and therefore on some very, very important elements of our legal system. Here, too, I hope for a good deal. I also hope that we will talk about paradigm shifts in the area of the elderly. I believe that the most important thing in the area of the elderly is to ensure that our employees in the older sector spend less time on documentation and on the computer and spend more time with the elderly. That is why I hope that all parties will be involved in this welfare experiment, where we set a number of municipalities completely free from both legislation and state regulations. Perhaps I could hear in this connection whether the Danish People's Party is actually involved in this idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232457	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232459	Now it's really me who's asking the questions from down here, and that's great. However, as I understood it, the Prime Minister would like to see us simply abolishing penalties for personal crime and other things, so that the victim also gets the feeling that the perpetrator has been properly punished. Not long ago there was also an accident in which one young man was responsible for the death of three others, and he was then sentenced to three years. He ran away from the crime scene, he was affected, and he was a getaway driver. 3 years... President Thank you! )... he got to kill three people! So I hope it's something the Prime Minister wants to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232538	Thank you! Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232539	Yeah. The short answer is yes. We must always see if we have the right level of punishment. We have, of course, historically had rather low penalties in Denmark, also for serious crime, because at that time we were a country where there was little crime, nor of the coarse kind. Now we have seen in recent years that, although much of the crime has actually decreased, brutal, hard crime has unfortunately become part of Danish society, and some of it has to be answered with harsher penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232616	Lotte Rod, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232617	Does the Prime Minister think that we should have minimum standards with trained educators, where the time the managers are in the office doesn't count?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232630	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232631	I would like there to be less time in that office. And I know that I keep coming back to the same thing, but I have to admit that I am of the opinion that, although there is now a majority which introduces minimum standards, although we as a government have made a few good municipal agreements, and even though in the most recent financial law we are going to have priority welfare and certainly also do so in the financial law we are going to be negotiating now, I do not believe that we will have the welfare society we would like if we did not free hours and crews from documentation, bureaucracy and governance for, for example, the work with the children in the institution. So we cannot discuss norms without discussing what working conditions are like at all. I would like to have more educated educators, yes, but I would like the educators to be allowed to work with the children instead of some of what they are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232727	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232728	We are in complete agreement on this. And I think we should do a management reform when we have made the minimum standards so that we make sure that when we drop the money, we also get what we want in the institutions. But when I ask the Prime Minister, it is because the money on the table is too small. So will the Prime Minister help us get both educated educators, but also take the time out when the leaders sit in the office?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232754	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232755	Well, there are a lot of things I would like to do in the area of children, and the general area of children is important. The children at risk are at least as important, and they are often forgotten in the discussion. After all, at the end of the day we must have a financial law in which expenditure and revenue are in line. And if I'm going to listen to all the wishes there are, the calculation doesn't add up, so we're going to have to get to the table soon and start prioritizing things against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232823	It's Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232826	Thank you. There has been some wild news today: the Oil giant Total is pulling out of a new oil hunt in the North Sea and Total is serving with its exit a huge climate victory on a silver platter for the Prime Minister. The Climate Council has stated that continuing Danish oil hunting will lead to an increase in global CO2 That is why I just want to hear the Prime Minister whether he intends to seize the opportunity and cancel all new oil hunting in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232907	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232908	After all, I do not know what is involved in this question: all new oil-hunting. It is quite true that Total has withdrawn and that the Minister has already called for negotiations, because we must, of course, look at what this should have with consequences and, as in all other areas, we would like to appeal to some balance. We want Denmark to be fossil-free by 2050, our North Sea policy must reflect this and, at the same time, the activities around the North Sea are very, very important for real, very many people who go to work, not least in Esbjerg and on the West Coast. So we have to remember to bring all the nuances into this discussion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232954	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008232955	Well, that climate ball won't really catch the PM. Then let me throw another one. A reply to Mrs Zenia Stampe has shown that agriculture accounts for about a third of Denmark's emissions and that feed production now absorbs half of Denmark's total area. The world's largest meat production per year In other words, people are not just destructive to the climate; they also take all the space from nature. Will the Prime Minister solve the problem and reduce the number of farm animals in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233026	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233027	We need to start negotiating agriculture, and that is what we are doing with a clear aim: we need to reduce CO2 that is the task. These negotiations are about to begin, and we must then find a way of doing this in a way that is also balanced. For it is quite right that we need a Danish Agriculture with a lower carbon footprint, but we also need a Danish Agriculture which produces food, and we need not least all the jobs linked to agriculture, but not least to all those who stand and process the agricultural products produced in Denmark. But the task in relation to agriculture and CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233111	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233112	I note that the Prime Minister has mentioned employees a few times this evening, i.e. those who get up in the morning, are buttering lunches, going to work, working hard and then paying a pretty large proportion of this salary in taxes, a tax which unfortunately goes too far to pay some excessive benefits to unemployed immigrants and refugees. We in the Left really think that is a shame. That is why I also regretted reading in the legislative programme that the Prime Minister is now suggesting that the higher benefits that the Prime Minister promised before the elections would not come and which, after the elections, would only be temporary, should now continue to be minimum throughout next year. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is actually quite simple: how will the Prime Minister explain to these hard-working employees that their hard-earned tax dollars should now go to pay higher benefits to unemployed refugees and immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233206-2	I seem to remember that we have had this discussion before. We have not generally increased the benefits; we have introduced a temporary increase in the area of children. And we have done so until the Commission has completed its work and made its recommendations, and a new wise political decision has been taken. That is exactly the plan we are still working on. The Service Commission has been set up and is in progress. When it makes its comments and proposals, we hope that we can reach a broad political agreement on a smarter system of benefits than what was and what is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233247	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233247-2	The Prime Minister has not generally raised taxes; the Prime Minister has not generally raised benefits. Nevertheless, we note that both taxes and benefits have been increased. Whether they have been raised specifically or in general, I am not so concerned. I would like answers to my question: what is the Prime Minister's answer to the employees who now have to see that a three-digit million of their hard-earned tax dollars are now going not to welfare or green conversion, but to higher benefits for unemployed refugees and immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233315	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233321	I really believe that there is broad support among a great many Danish employees for what is also the government's fundamental position, namely that there must be a difference between being on the labour market and not being on the labour market. And it must be worthwhile to work on an excellent Left slogan, which I fully endorse. This applies, of course, not least to those who have not yet made a contribution to Danish society, because rights and duties go hand in hand, but the duty must always be before the right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233347	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233349	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the government's economic line, which, in my view, is unfortunately driven by a left-wing ideology rather than common sense. Let me give you a few examples. The government has tripled the taxation of generational change for family-owned companies. It is therefore a tax which only affects private companies; it does not affect listed companies, it does not affect foundations, it does not affect public companies, it only affects private companies, and it makes everything else equally difficult for a Danish family that wants to run its business. This makes it harder for the ordinary Dane to invest • it makes it at least more expensive • and it makes it harder for Danish companies to raise capital. You will also lend Denmark and the Danes to the utmost. And I could go on and on and on... all these actions are not healthy for the Danish economy. Does the Prime Minister really believe that the overall economic line is a responsible economic line for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233450	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233451	Yeah, I do. Surely we would not dream of pursuing an irresponsible economic policy. And it is the case with economic policy that you always have to read the field and see where you are. And we are in a situation now with a global pandemic with a major setback for the Danish economy and, by the way, with a majority which, fortunately, has also taken on the task of investing more in this society again. For example, the previous government chose to provide some tax incentives to cut education. I do not think this is a wise economic policy. I think it is wise to remove money from marketing in education; I do not think it is wise to cut back on education in general. in relation to the generational issue and to the question of inheritance. And I should just like to remind you that what we are talking about as tax increases is, of course, that we are cancelling tax cuts that have been granted a few years ago and which are very, very skewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233554	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233555	With all due respect, that doesn't make any sense. Our business rapporteur, Mona Juul, has shown that a lower corporation tax is a gain for the Danes, an economic gain across society. The Liberal Alliance has also shown with questions to the Ministry of Finance that a lower share tax is also an economic gain for the Danes and for the Danish economy. Why doesn't the Prime Minister listen to these answers? Will you listen to these things being a gain for the economy, or will you continue to just raise taxes and raise taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233628	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233629	No, we don't think you should just raise taxes and raise taxes. And some of the taxes that the Left and now some of the Conservatives have said we have raised and raised are those that have been voted in favour of it, for example. on cigarettes. I mean, if we're going to have a qualified discussion on this, we're going to have to look at what kind of taxes have been raised. We've raised the treasure on plastic, on plastic bags. Just before, we had a discussion about biodiversity, namely that we should consume less plastic. But I know that the Conservatives wanted even greater increases in cigarettes than the Social Democrats had. So maybe we should try to get the discussion qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233710	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233711	Thank you for that and thank you for the Prime Minister's reply. Today, after all, we have been told by the Minister for Justice that a residence ban can be imposed and that this is something that the Socialists will see to it that we can get through this parliamentary term, as I understand it, yes, perhaps already in this assembly of parliaments. The residence ban must be carried out in such a way that all persons may be subject to a fine of DKK 10,000 if they are staying in a specific place. Is that supposed to be all people? Get the elderly who sit on a bench and enjoy themselves, or the family with the stroller who needs to take a little walk in the park, also a fine of 10,000 DKK.? I am asking because at the press conference of the Socialists today it sounded as if everyone is suffering from a residence ban in a particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233821	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233822	I hear that there is actually quite broad support for the introduction of a residence ban, and that is not a new idea either. We have spent some time getting it refined and could then present it on Tuesday. We know who this residence ban is gonna apply. We know that. It is groups of boys and men who are harassing, insecure, criminalising or otherwise destroying a local area, a S-train station, a centre or whatever it may be. That is what has been charged, and I do not think we disagree on that. Of course, we want to do something that hits as precisely as possible, and then it has to be legally feasible. There may be a situation in which we have to accept, as if it were a general ban, because that is the legal way to go. And then we must take it with us if we are to achieve the result we want together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233916	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233917	But, Prime Minister, it wouldn't be better if we made a zone ban, where those who are criminals have done something we don't like, that is, gang members, some who are selling weeds, got a zone ban, instead of hitting the older lady who needs to sit on the bench or park a car in the parking lot. Can't the Prime Minister see that something is completely wrong here? I mean, law-abiding people shouldn't be hit by a residence ban, right? Do they have to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233950	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008233954	No, that is certainly not what the intention is. I just find it hard to see that the zoning ban, which was also a good idea, and we have supported that too, is sufficient because that tool is in the toolbox. Those boys and young men are harassing quite large areas, which is why we need to take further steps. After all, we must do what is legally possible, and that is a condition for it to be legally valid. I believe that the residence ban is stronger than the zone ban. The Zone Ban can be used for some things, the residence ban for some other and more general issues of this insecure behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234027	And then we reach the final questions in the time allotted. This is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234034	Thank you. The Prime Minister is quite right: it is not a new idea to ban residence, because that idea came directly from the Left. That's not what I'm gonna ask questions about. I really would like to say that I have to repeat Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's question was not answered. So now it is quite brief and concrete: is it still the position of the Social Democratic Party that 95 per cent. by the Danes will not notice tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234100	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234100-2	If we look at some of the tax increases we have talked about here, for example. in the stock area, only a very, very small part of the Danish population will experience it. And then, and I say this with completely open eyes, we have agreed to raise the tax on cigarettes. It was originally not part of the policy of social democracy. It was a large majority who wanted it. I've been bent. I know I'm one of the few back in the country who's still having a bit of trouble with those high prices on cigarettes, maybe because I know so many people where smoking isn't the biggest problem they have in their lives. But I've given myself. That has been decided, and it is also right to do so in terms of health policy. But it is a tax increase on which we broadly agree, and it hits wider than the 95 per cent. May I then just recommend in the end: you do not have to be sorry that the Left has an idea at some point, for which there will then be a majority in favour. It is very, very good in a democracy that one party gets an idea, some others work on the idea, and then we can adopt it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234204	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234205	That is absolutely right. I do not really think I pointed that out with a negative vote either. I just recognise that our ideas are so good that there are other parties that take them in. But why can't you be honest about your own policy? The fact is, the government has promised one thing and done another. They have raised taxes and taxes for billions and sent the bill directly to the Danes and to the companies. It is, in fact, closer to 95 per cent. by the Danes, who have received increasing taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234240	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234242	We have made decisions on targeted tax increases in some places, some of which have been broadly based, for example. on plastic and cigarettes and then we have a desire to ensure a dignified withdrawal. I repeat, moreover, that I think it would be a good idea for the Left to take responsibility for the workers who are worn out and who have done what they should do for this society. In our proposal for a right to a more dignified withdrawal, there are some tax increases on which we, by the way, voted. And in a situation where many banks have made large profits, we still think it is reasonable to have a greater social contribution, so that the people who have worked very many years on the labour market can hopefully soon be allowed to retire more dignifiedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234330	Then we'll thank the Prime Minister. Time's up. Then I shall see whether any of the rapporteurs would like to speak in another round. I don't see anyone reporting. Then I would like to say that the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234352	There are four proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 1 by Jesper Petersen (S), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Peder Hvelplund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 58 (S, RV, SF, EL and SIU), 52 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted in favour or against 0. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. V 1 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 2 by Sophie Løhde (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), draft resolution No. V 3 of Torsten Gejl (ALT) and proposals for adoption No. V 4 of Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the debate on the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234449	The debate is open. Would anyone like to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234515	The debate is open. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201008234600	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 20 October 2020 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
