ParlaMint-DK_20200124100052	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Skaarup (DF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Pernille Vermund (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the law on holidays) (Citizen's proposal). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Request no. F 36 (In the light of the Prime Minister's announcement of the Social Democratic Government's downgrading of traffic investment and the resulting uncertainty about the time horizon and the economy for political negotiations on a master plan for traffic investment up to 2030, the Minister will explain the government's reflections and plans on traffic investment, which was a key theme across the country in the social democratic election campaign last year, including in the light of the annual socio-economic congestion loss of at least 25 billion. kr., loss of labour supply, loss of cohesion in Denmark and loss of green mobility due to serious deficiencies in the traffic infrastructure?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200124100207	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124100243	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 January 2020. It is first to justify Mrs Liselott Blix's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124100256	Thank you. For many years we have been talking about the priority of medicine in health care. Who does not remember the party presidents of the previous elections, who all swore not to appreciate how much a person is worth or what the medicine may cost? At that time it was both Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt who said that there should be no priority in medicine. But when the elections were over, it was easy to get the regions to form a medical council, where we saw in the Health Committee, together with the Minister, set up seven principles to prevent tough priorities. It was precisely about how to measure the medical treatments that came. Then everything had to be clear, for it was mainly new and expensive cancer drugs that had to be measured up against. That was the discussion we had. In the Danish People's Party we made a great deal of effort to ensure that all groups, including the small and rare ones, had to be given priority. Therefore, the seventh principle states: "Equal access must be ensured for both large and small patient groups and must be taken into account for patients' individual needs. It must be possible, on the basis of a specific medical assessment, to treat with medicinal products which have been rejected for standard treatment. This applies, for example, to being able to provide high-quality treatment to patients with rare diseases or to be able to treat in order to avoid disability. • Now, after various cases have appeared, we can see that the seventh principle is not respected at all. It is grotesque and it is to keep the Danish citizens fooled as well as an accident for those people with a rare diagnosis as well as the relatives who currently have no idea where to turn. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party propose that either the way of measuring new medicines is changed to rare diagnoses or completely take it out of the hands of the Medical Council and place it in the Danish Medicines Agency. That's what F 27 is going to be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124100514	Thank you. Then we shall give the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124100526	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate on the assessment of new medicines for rare diseases. I have looked forward to today's debate and this is an important issue, and I appreciate that we will have the opportunity to discuss it. The Medical Council, as it is all about, started their work on 1 January 2017. The year before 2016, all the Danish Parliament's parties agreed on seven principles for prioritising hospital medicines, and the seven principles give the Medical Council a good starting point for working and, at the same time, provide the regions with a framework for the expectations that we in the Danish Parliament have for prioritising medical purchases in the hospital system. So the principles set up a framework that should take into account all Danish patients • both patients who are being treated with new expensive medicines, but of course also all patients who benefit from the important prevention, treatment or care we offer in the health care system, i.e. where the new expensive medicines that the Medical Council is looking at are not necessarily the right offer. Priority is not an easy task, but unfortunately it is necessary. For even though the government has most recently added 1.5 billion. kr. to the regions in the economic agreement • it is the largest amount in the last many years • our health care system is still under pressure. The course for the establishment of the Medical Council was also marked by the challenges associated with the increasing cost of hospital medicine. If you look at the figures, the cost of hospital medicine alone from 2007 to 2016 has almost doubled from 4.3 billion. kr. to 8,2 billion. kr. In the regions there was frustration that medicines with very little clinical added value could, in principle, take the budget place from other products and, above all, from the warm hands of hospitals, without any real consideration being given to the added value of the price. I think we would all wish that we were not put in this almost impossible situation where priority should be given, but unfortunately that is imperative. New innovative medicines are important, they turn on the hopes of people who are ill, but sometimes we see that the drugs create too much hope in terms of what the effect really is. If, at the same time, the industry demands millions of kroner without having sufficient evidence of an equivalent effect, then as a society we may have to say no. It is hard, but we need to make some very well-considered decisions as to whether the effect of the new medicines is in line with the amounts required, and that assessment is best done by the professional experts in the Medical Council. As a public health service, we must do our best to buy medicines wisely so that patients can continue to have easy and equal access to high-quality treatment, including in the long term. There was back in 2016 a hope that the Medical Council would prove to be a good tool to ensure lower growth in costs of hospital medicine, more warm hands in health care, and that we use our resources best for the benefit of patients. That was the hope. And it was also with some excitement that we in the Danish Parliament received the evaluation of the Danish Medical Council, which Danske Regioner made last year. We have had this evaluation reviewed both in writing and orally, and that was a positive evaluation. I quote here from the evaluation conclusion: "The Medicin Council is assessed... to live up to its purpose as well as to respect the principles set out by Danske Regioner's Board of Directors and the Danish Parliament. ▪ Another quote is: the Medicin Council has helped to ensure Amgros a stronger basis for achieving better prices through price negotiations on new medicines. In addition, it is stated that Amgros reports that their overall average discounts have increased after the establishment of the Medical Council. However, this evaluation also showed that some companies and patient groups have an experience that it has become more difficult to get medicinal products for rare diseases to be approved for standard treatment. It is my impression that the Council of Medicine has been aware of the problem of the fact that orphan medicinal products are, as a starting point, more difficult to obtain solid evidence of their effect, and there is a logical explanation for this. That's because there's a smaller group of patients to test the drug on. And it makes sense, of course, that it is so harder to measure the evidence. In order to meet precisely the challenges, the Medical Council has per. January 1, 2019, just over a year ago, decided to change the method for assessing medicinal products for rare diseases. Specifically, the change of method means that in its assessment of an orphan medicinal product, the Board of Medicines will base its recommendation more on professional and clinical considerations rather than on the static methods that are also used in the evaluation of medicinal products for common diseases, where by their very nature there is much more data. That is to say, the assessment, for example. is based on knowledge of similar medicinal products and their efficacy, as well as consideration of the severity of the disease and the efficacy of existing therapeutic alternatives. I also informed the Committee on Health and the Elderly about the change of method in my answer to Question 49 on 17 September last year. At the end of the year, the Medical Council will collect the effects of the change of method. I will follow that work closely, and I will also keep the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly informed of that work. But what has happened so far before we have the follow-up? There I find that we have been informed in the Ministry of Medicine that two applications for new orphan medicinal products have been assessed according to the new method, which was launched last year. In both cases, the Medicines Council has recommended the medicines. Of the 18 orphan medicinal products treated by the Council before the change of method, half were recommended or partially recommended, so one might ask whether it really is the case that the Council of Medicine says no to medicines for rare diseases almost per year. This is certainly not the reality. And if it is produced in this way, it creates an insecurity and helps to weaken an important Danish value as trust in public Danish health institutions and their health professionalism. The Medical Council is the body in Denmark that has the best professional basis for assessing new medicines for rare diseases. I think it would be worrying to move the assessment of new medicines to rare diseases away from the professional knowledge and expertise of the Medical Council. Indeed, it is not the case that the basis for the evidence of the efficacy of the medicinal products is improved by the fact that the assessment is carried out elsewhere. So I do not share that premise in the question. Would it be possible, then, to refrain entirely from a professional evaluation of medicines aimed at rare diseases? In other words, could it be imagined that medicines for rare diseases were withdrawn completely from the assessment system? I think we have to say no to going that way. If new medicines for rare diseases are not subject at all to the assessment by any specialist experts of evidence of the efficacy of the medicinal product before putting it into service, we do not know whether the new medicine is at the level of the existing treatment. So there would be a risk that new and probably also more expensive medicines would then be used, which either have a lower effect, or we could risk having far more side effects than the existing treatment. I do not think anyone can be served by that at all. I think that would be irresponsible for patients, but also for our health resources. It would also be extremely difficult to control the cost of hospital medicine, which I have explained has been growing wildly in recent years. Because without a solid assessment of orphan medicinal products, it will not be possible for Amgros to buy in medicines on behalf of our regions, in other words their purchasing organisation to negotiate at a good price on the medicines, because in practice there will be no basis for saying no to the purchase of medicines. And when you sit two negotiating parties against each other and one cannot say no, you can figure out what the price will end up being. So it is important, when we discuss this here, that we do so on the basis of the principles adopted by the Danish Parliament, and do so on the basis of our respect and our concern for each patient and our overall health care, but that we do so in a way that we do not end up printing an extremely serious and comprehensive blankocheck--- a real blankocheck--- for the pharmaceutical industry. Apart from the fact that it would be unfair, it would mean less warm hands for our sick and our elderly. So that's not the way to go. That is why the brief answer to the question put in the question is that I do not see a reason to withdraw the assessment of rare diseases from the Medical Council. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101606	Thank you. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, which is to be recorded. The first to sign up is Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101619	Thank you very much. I think the Minister is mixing things up. The Minister continues to say that it must be in the Medical Council, because it can then be compared with the treatment that exists. That's not what this is about. This is about new medicines where there is no other treatment, so there is nothing to compare with. Can the Minister not see that there is a very large difference in whether a diagnosis already has a treatment or it is a completely new treatment, as we see in some of the cases that have received no, and where there is no real evidence because it is a rare diagnosis? Can the Minister see the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101704	Yeah, I can do that. There is, of course, a clear difference, but I must also be honest and say that, in relation to these rare diagnoses, the rare diseases, where there is very little evidence of what works, it is most often the case that there are treatments which have little effect and where new medicines are then brought in, and, as I said in my speech, since the Medical Council changed its handling of this particular type of medicine, two medicines have been applied for and both have been approved. That is to say, I think it is too early to conclude that it has had no effect, since the two that have been applied for and assessed according to the new method have actually received an approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101804	Thank you. I would just like to say that there is no automatism in having the floor to make a brief comment to the Minister. You have to remember to press the button because we have pronounced, but not pronunciation. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101815	I would never argue against the President in relation to that. It was just a question of whether you could even ask the minister in this round. But you can do that. I understand that there is a proposal for adoption along the way, drawn up by the government and its support parties, and it says something about the Minister's wish to keep the Committee on Health and the Elderly informed of developments in the work of the Medical Council. I would like to know if the Minister could be a little more specific about that. Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that the Minister gave a quarterly written statement to the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Older People's Rights on developments in the work of the Medical Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124101858	Yeah, you could imagine. What I have proposed, also in my speech, is that Parliament has now received, and this was at my request, both a written and an oral review of the evaluation of the work of the Medical Council. The evaluation there has found no basis for changing at this stage the way in which medicines for rare diseases are handled, but they have put an evaluation of the element, an assessment of the element, in progress and I would recommend that we wait for a review which will be reviewed after two years, and that is the assessment that I will inform Parliament about. And as I said, we can conclude right now and here on a stand-by basis that since you changed your handling, you have a 100-percent approval of the types of medicine that have been applied for approval through the Medical Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102004	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102007	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question. After all, it is an extremely sensitive issue that we are discussing here because it has some dramatic consequences for the people affected by it. The Minister himself referred to the role of the pharmaceutical industry in relation to pricing. There is no doubt that this is an essential element in this discussion, precisely because the pharmaceutical industry is today so highly priced because we are also giving them the opportunity to do so. There is no secret that the Danish Government has so far played a rather foot-to-mouth role in ensuring more transparency and openness in the way the pharmaceutical industry prices. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister is willing to go in, including in the context of this discussion, and try to see whether we can ensure more openness, both in relation to the research results behind the pricing, but that we also get rid of non-disclosure agreements, in other words where we cannot see what prices other countries are negotiating, and that will thus prevent transparency in pricing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102113	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that openness is absolutely crucial here, but once again it is important that the openness that exists, and indeed must also be, does not contradict the fact that we in Denmark have a system in which we have actually managed to obtain discounts, also incredibly discounts, that is. We need more control over the galloping costs of medicine, which at least all the countries of the Western world are currently struggling with. That is why it takes a lot of thought to proceed with such a model, because I would be nervous about it. It may well be that at global level it could bring some benefits, but if it has negative consequences at national level in Denmark, I will not be prepared to do so. Our health services are already under financial pressure, and it is absolutely crucial that we do not let go of the pharmaceutical industry's pricing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102217	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102220	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I fully agree, and I do not see any professional arguments for withdrawing this assessment from the Medical Council, because there has to be an assessment of the effect on pricing. I would like to ask the Minister something. The Minister mentioned, as I remember it, that out of the 18 orphan medicines that have been assessed in the Danish Medical Council, 9 had received partial or full approval in Denmark. My question is as follows: What about the remaining 9, if they had been assessed according to the criteria introduced from 1 January 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102256	We are talking about technical assessments, particularly medical assessments. But what we have been informed, and what I can inform the Danish Parliament, is that at the end of the year, the Medical Council will prepare a thorough note to Danske Regions about the impact of the new approach to medicines for rare diseases. It is the case that companies who believe that there is a need for a re-evaluation can be some of those who have received no so far; it may be that there is new data or a new price or other price that will be able to resubmit an application to the Medical Council, and it will then be assessed according to the new criteria. And that will be the very best answer to the rapporteur's question, because then we will be able to see whether it has had a real effect on how it was assessed by the previous method.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102402	We thank the Minister. No one else has signed up for questions, so we go ahead in the rapporteur's round, and the first is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Socialists. It's not? No, it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124102423	It is good that something has not been completely changed when making new inquiries. In the past, questions were not to be put to the Minister in the first place. Times change in the Folketing. Apparently, changing the President of a party is also a change of attitude. There have been new presidents in the Left and the Social Democrats, and then you change your mind. Fortunately, we have not changed the chairman of the Danish People's Party, so we have still gone away from our position: there must be money for medicine, also for rare diagnoses and also for new innovative medicines. And I was very sorry to hear the Minister say how well things are going, but the Minister also pointed out that this is a question of money. The minister mixes the council's work with looking at another treatment • what I asked a question about. This is all about new medicine. If we want something innovative, we will also have to try some of the new medicines that come on the market and, yes, it costs money. The Council of Medicine had been given the seventh principle, and that is exactly what the problem is. It is true that we had a hearing in here at Christiansborg, where there was great satisfaction in particular with the first six principles put forward by the Medical Council. But both Danske Patients I can also find their statements, if that is what the Minister of Health and Medical Sciences could say that the seventh principle does not work. And it doesn't help either that you have created a new calculation model from January 2019. The last article in which I saw, Medical Societys and Danske Patients spoke out was from the end of last year. We live in one of the richest countries. We have a high tax burden and pay a lot of money in taxes, to society, to make it run around. We have opened up the country to refugees and immigrants, because we can afford to do so, but when a small group of Danes gets a serious, rare disease, we are ignoring them, and the Medical Council estimates that we cannot afford to treat them. We in the Danish People's Party have now struggled with this in the last year, as we have seen a group of people who are only getting worse, and seen that the hope they have for improving their disease is shrinking, because they are being denied the medicine that could help them. You don't even want to try it out. We know, of course, that there are ways of making agreements with pharmaceutical companies, which we have also given money to, in other words to make agreements in the area of innovation. So I am surprised that you are not trying to do anything, because they are the ones who become the problem when they sit between two chairs and disappear. We have diseases that are so rare that not many pharmaceutical companies are researching them. In fact, there are not many doctors who are interested in them either, because they are not as exciting to be interested in, as they are concerned about the diseases you focus on, because there are many who know about them, and we know with regard to cancer that the focus has been very clear, large patient association and collection days, and what I know, but a rare disease does not get very much attention and obviously not in this Parliament among my colleagues, and that is sad. When there is a product that can give these disease groups hope for improvement, it is expensive, and it also sounds really violent that one person should have medicine for millions, but we all want a medicine that helps a certain diagnosis, but because there are as few as there are now, there is therefore not the same support. I have two examples of this at the moment, and I believe that most of us in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection are familiar with the Spinraza case. Spinraza is given to people with a certain type of muscle loss called small. These people may never get into the labour market, but in many cases medicine can make them more self-reliant. We are currently seeing a family drive to Belgium to get the medicine, because you cannot get it in Denmark, but we also see that other families will now move to Sweden, where they can get this medicine, which gives them the hope that their children will not weaken at the same speed, so that they can continue to do some things even, it may be to turn around in bed, get up to sit in a wheelchair instead of lying 24 hours in a bed. You should try to meet them all, I think that would make an impression. The second example is the medicine Luxturna, which helps people with an eye disease that can lead to blindness, and there is now no other treatment for the disease, but there has also been a refusal. There are 19 people suffering from that disease. I think it is a pity, and unfortunately I cannot say anything other than that I can read out my proposal for adoption which I have sent around, but I have heard nothing from anyone, nor have I heard what your proposal was until 10 minutes ago. I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that medicines for rare diseases cannot be assessed using the same methods as medicines for large groups of ills. Rare diseases are serious and lifelong and affect very few people. Most often, there is no already relevant medical treatment that can be used as a benchmark to ensure a proper assessment of new medications. Small patient populations make it impossible to use common statistical methods. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure that appropriate methods are used to assess new medicines for rare diseases, so that these patients too are guaranteed access to new medical treatment. Without appropriate assessment methods, patients with rare diseases do not have the same access to new treatment as patients with more frequent diseases. • V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103054	Thank you. A proposal has now been tabled for the adoption of Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party, and it will be included in the further negotiations. Then suddenly there came a queue of speakers, and the first one I have to give the floor is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103111	Thank you very much. And thank the rapporteur for raising the matter. I think that debating is an extremely important issue. I just have a question about the seventh principle. Mrs Liselot Blixt quite rightly mentions that there have been criticisms from among others. Medical societies and Danish patients know that it is not used frequently enough in relation to what was intended. But the rapporteur also says that the new methods will not affect it. However, if the new methods mean that more medicines will be approved by the Medical Council, it will not be as necessary to use the seventh principle just as often in the wards. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103148	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103149	It is clear that if more products are approved, there will not be the same challenges. I do not know whether the old products have been tried with the new method, but perhaps the questioner knows that. I just think it's weird that the world around us is using these medicines and that we are now the only country that doesn't use, for example. Spinraza.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103218	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103221	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Now I just wanted to say that the rapporteur mentioned that no one had replied. We have not received any proposal for adoption, so of course we have not answered it either. Now, for example, the rapporteur himself mentioned Luxturna, a product which is expensive and in which there is at least a supposed effect. Of course, it is also one of the problems with the rare diagnoses that it is difficult to provide sufficient evidence of how well it works. However, compared to Luxturna, we know that Novartis, who produces it, even if they halved the price, would still have a great profit on it. Would Mrs Liselott Blixt not recognise that there is also a problem in relation to the pricing of the pharmaceutical industry, because if they set the price to be twice as expensive as it could be and still had a profit, there would in principle be two who would then be able to get medicine, or the patients who need it, might be able to get both eyes treated instead of just one? So does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a problem with the pricing of the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103332	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103333	I fully agree that there are also villains in the pharmaceutical industry who put their prices too high, but that also means that we need to be better at negotiating. It's like we're just shutting down when we say no to medicine, and that's all we're gonna do. I think we could make some effort there. You could make deals with them, and we know that we have no cure, no pay, or there could be other ways to decide it. I think that's a shame, because you don't give any hope to the people who get a rejection from the start. There are other ways of doing this. I apologise for the fact that the Enhedslisten were the only ones I had forgotten to send the proposal for adoption to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103408	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103409	That excuse is, of course, fully accepted. But it is only in a negotiating situation that the opportunity we have to negotiate as a public authority or as a health service is also to say that we will not accept that price. That is the prerequisite of a debate. What we have to threaten in a debate is to say that we are not prepared to accept that price; we will not pay it. And that would strengthen our position if we could see, for example, the background to that. Novartis prices as high as they do. Because then we'd be able to say that this is an exorbitant pricing. That is why a debate with the pharmaceutical industry requires that we also have the tool to say that the price is too high.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103452	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103453	It's a hostage taking. It's a hostage taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103508	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103509	I would like to know what alternative system Mrs Liselott Blixt actually imagines. For Mrs Liselott Blixt himself mentions that we are too bad to negotiate. And the Medical Council is, by its very nature, a body that has been put into this system because it has to form such a part of it that we are negotiating with the pharmaceutical industry. What kind of system does Mrs Liselott Blixt imagine? I remember back before RADS and KRIS and stuff like that. At that time you had to have a product, a patient association, a banging lobbyist and a couple of health politicians from in here, and then you drove out there and put drugs into the Danish market. Is this the kind of system that Mrs Liselott Blixt wishes to return to? Or what does Mrs Liselot Blixt think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103556	Years ago, when new medicines were stopped, we stopped in Denmark and could not heal as quickly as many other places. That's where we fell behind. I think you can make these very strict agreements with pharmaceutical companies that other countries can, and we would be able to. I think it is wrong to say that, because we have seen some bad consequences, we will not try to work towards achieving anything. It turns out time and time again that we have had ministers who have been able to make agreements both by pushing the price and by making agreements. And I have seen some of the agreements that have been made but are not public. But we are really debating these things, and it is also the case that other countries have said yes to the products.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103647	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103649	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix for bringing the matter to a debate. I think it's interesting. I have a few questions, because the Medical Council has been set up precisely in order to get some more tools to do well for negotiating purposes. As the question is put, it is quite specifically a question of pulling these small diagnoses and the preparations for them out of the Medical Council. Who, then, is to make the decision? How do you imagine a new model for preparations for those very small areas of diagnosis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103733	It is not in the proposal that it is all rare diagnoses that have to come out. It could be very nice, and I have previously wanted to avoid burdening other hospital departments in the individual hospital that you had a plan that you could have all rare diagnoses in an area for yourself, where we as politicians also prioritized the money that was supposed to be. I suggest that we look at medicines for rare diagnoses where there is no alternative, because there is no basis for comparison. This is what the Medical Council was supposed to do, namely to compare medicines with other treatments. And there is no other treatment as an alternative to the two preparations I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103807	Then no one else has signed up for Mrs Liselott Blix. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124103827	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this very important question. In Denmark, we have an independent medicine council whose purpose is to recommend the use of new medicines and new indication extensions. In addition, the Medical Council must also issue treatment guidelines and recommendations for the use of medicines in hospitals and in the primary sector. The Medical Council is an independent council of the Danish Regions, and it is therefore also the regions that have the power to assess whether there should be adjustments to the Medical Council, and that should therefore not be changed, because political arm's length is important. In the Social Democratic Party, we think it would be worrying to shift the assessments of new medicines to rare diseases away from the expertise and expertise of the Medical Council. The Medical Council is the body in Denmark that has the best professional basis for assessing new medicines for rare diseases, and since it is just a few patients with rare diseases, the data base for assessing new medicines will often be slender, and therefore it may be difficult to gather evidence of the drug effect. This will be the case, whether it is the Medical Council or any other body that makes the decision. We cannot solve that problem by moving the decision away from the Medical Council. That is why, of course, we have also noted that the Medical Council has changed its practice in assessing medicines for rare diseases, so that more emphasis is now being placed on professional and clinical evaluation and, to a lesser extent, on statistics when new medicines are to be used. If we withdraw the evaluation of certain types of medicine from the Medical Council, it will also undermine the possibility of negotiating good prices with the pharmaceutical industry, and this could mean higher prices for medicines, and that money will then have to be found elsewhere in our healthcare system, which, as the Minister has already said, is extremely tense. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we will follow developments very closely and look forward to the follow-up to the impact of the new guidelines that came earlier and that will have to be followed up later this year. So, in conclusion, I will read out a text which I hope the Danish Parliament can endorse, and I shall therefore make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish Medical Council, an independent council of the Danish Regions, has fulfilled its purpose. The regions have the power to make adjustments to the Medical Council. The cost of hospital medicine has more than doubled since 2007. The Medical Council is one of our best tools if the pharmaceutical industry demands exorbitant prices, and the council helps to ensure that health budgets are not put under further pressure. The Danish Parliament considers that it would be worrying to move the assessments of medicines to rare diseases away from the expertise of the Council of Medicine. The assessments shall be carried out with the involvement of relevant experts. The Danish Parliament notes that the Medical Council and the regions are aware of the challenges of assessing medicines for rare diseases. The Medical Council therefore changed the method in January 2019. Danish Regions have issued a guide to the regions on the use of medicinal products not recommended by the Danish Medical Council, based on the seventh principle of the Danish Parliament. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will follow the work of the regions and the Medical Council on the impact of the change of method. The Health and Elderly Committee shall be informed. • V 53). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104154	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to state who is behind the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104159	Yeah, that's right. I'm sorry I forgot. Behind the proposal for adoption is the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104212	Thank you for that, and it may seem strange that I repeat it, but I do. A proposal has now been tabled for the adoption of the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and this proposal for adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. So far, two comments have been written in for short, and the first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104237	Thank you. I would like to hear something from the Socialist rapporteur. In the past there has been a debate at the People's Assembly, where Spinraza, which is given to children, was also debated, and Benjamin asked: why can I not have Spinraza? There the Socialist rapporteur, who at the time was Flemming Møller Mortensen, replied: Benjamin, I can give you an answer; if the doctor who helps you says that you will benefit from this medicine, then you must have it. First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with his party colleague in that reply and, in addition, what the rapporteur is saying to the muscle loss fund's proposal for a pool of solidarity, in which it is imagined that, for example, there will be an increase in the number of jobs created in the Community. The sale of cheap over-the-counter medicines is subject to a modest tax. It was also a proposal that the Danish People's Party took to the negotiations when we negotiated the reserve, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour of it. These were two questions to which I hope the Socialist rapporteur can answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104346	The Socialist rapporteur is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104348	Thank you. To the last question, I simply do not know enough to answer that, so I would very much like to follow it up and try to understand what it is about. I simply cannot answer that question. In relation to the first question, it is true that if there is a doctor who would like to try out a medicine, the doctor can apply to the region for it. So that was a very good answer that my colleague gave at the time. I do not know the specific case, but it is the case that there are opportunities to try out medicines, and therefore there are principles for this very thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104430	Yes, and that is all it has to say in relation to the debate that has taken place and the many examples that have been that one in three of those who have applied have been refused new medicines. This has been the case in the past, but I can feel that the Socialist rapporteur may not have followed the debate and may not be fully involved in the debate on medicines. That is why I would ask the rapporteur to follow this up and to follow up on the proposal from the Muscle Dwindling Fund, which is a very good proposal. Because I can of course hear from the Socialist rapporteur that it is a lot about what it costs and not so much about human life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104506	The last thing I thought was a rather harsh statement to make. It's just that I'm not the one who's assessing the medicine. It is professional knowledge that does it, and it is the doctors who know the most about the medicine. So right there I would very much like to lean on professional knowledge rather than sit and assess what things are going to cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104529	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104531	Thank you very much. Hard, it is when we see a boy who has been turned down to medicine in Denmark and then goes to Belgium and actually gets better. It's tough. It's tough to know that we live in Denmark and can't get that help when you have a sick child. It's tough. But will the rapporteur not be able to see an advantage in withdrawing expensive medicines from the hospital departments so that they do not have to judge whether it should be two nurses or an expensive medicine to spend money on next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104611	Well, there's just no better idea than that it's the Medical Council that's handling these assessments so far. Well, I haven't heard Mrs Liselott Blixt make any better bids so far, so I really think we should lean on the professional knowledge of this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104615	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104617	I have made it very clear that it is within the Danish Medicines Agency that we have a great many competences in terms of giving some medicine, and that is where we can also ensure that there are some funds. Of course, there must be funding from what the region is currently holding for rare diagnoses, and then, of course, there must also be the fund that my colleague mentioned. So the economy will be there too. However, it is a question of some others taking some rules on some other basic conditions, because it is new, innovative medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104646	Well, I'm just so nervous that we're hollowing out the whole foundation. This is also about how we should be able to finance it properly, but it may be that Liselott Blixt can explain how it should be financed at another time. I mean, it's all about having some experts sitting on the Medical Council right now who are doing a good and thorough job and who are in the business. And they have a huge professional knowledge with them. I don't know what Liselott Blixt imagines we're gonna make an extra piece of advice? Well, that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104719	Then there is no more inscribed to the rapporteur. We thank Mrs Birgitte Vind. Perhaps I should explain that when we in this chair always intervene in relation to changing, it is because there are officials sitting there just listening and asking us for them to separate things, both in terms of taking the record and making the television broadcast that we do it. It's not like that to control things like that. It was many times better if the debate was just allowed to run, but it is for purely practical reasons. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124104751	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for travelling and the Danish People's Party always makes important debates. However, allow me to remind you of at least three of the seven principles of the work of the Medical Council, which are of course intended to ensure free and equal access to high-quality treatment. And these are the seven principles which the Danish Parliament's parties have agreed to. Without this rapporteur's speech having to become such a lesson, it is a question of professionalism, that is to say, in assessing medicinal products, there is a thorough and systematic assessment of the therapeutic benefit to patients and of the evidence on which it is based, of course, based on the necessary and sufficient professional expertise. At the same time, the independence of the Medical Council must be guaranteed and maintained. This implies that the assessment of medicinal products must be based on objective criteria and on professional judgements, so as to ensure an independent basis for decision-making and thus an arm's length analysis at the political level. And I think that's really, really sensible. As the last of the seven principles, we have stated that access to treatment must be guaranteed. This means ensuring equal access for both large and small patient groups and taking into account the individual needs of patients. And this also means that it must be possible, on the basis of a specific medical assessment, to treat with medicinal products which have been rejected for standard treatment. This applies, for example, to being able to provide high-quality treatment to patients with rare diseases or to be able to treat in order to avoid disability. The other four principles are geographical equality, openness, the rapid entry into service of new, effective medicines and more money health. And it's these principles that govern the work of the Medical Council and their choice of method and, at the very least, their operation. And I just think it would be dangerous to start steering up here from the speaking chair of the Folketing. The regions are competent to make adjustments to the Council of Medicine and per year. On 1 January, the method for assessing medicinal products for the treatment of rare diseases was adjusted. The treatment of orphan medicinal products by the Medicines Council is based on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) definition of orphan medicinal products. The definition is that it is medicinal products for rare diseases that are life-threatening or chronic debilitating or where the drug is unlikely to generate sufficient profit to justify its development. The evaluation of the value of new medicinal products is usually based on both statistical calculations and the decreased clinical assessments of the specialist committees. In the case of orphan drugs with a sparing data base, it is by nature difficult to evaluate the efficacy of the medicinal product based on statistical methods and with a clear conclusion as a result. In such situations, therefore, the evaluation of the medicinal product in the Medical Board is more dependent on scientific clinical considerations. And that would in fact mean that the Medical Council would therefore ask the specialist committees to argue whether they expect the new medicine to be better, as well or worse than the medicinal product to be compared with if there is a medicinal product to be compared with. The expectations of the Trade Committee will typically be based on their biological and medical knowledge and experience. And in the Left we have confidence in the method choices of the regions and the Medical Council. It is, of course, and with good reason, a work that we want to follow closely, but to which we still want to maintain the principle of corporate income tax. I think we are wiser in doing this, and we owe it to both professional knowledge and, ultimately, to patients as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105147	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105149	Does the rapporteur not find it strange that almost all countries other than Denmark have granted Spinraza to their groups of sick people with the disease that benefits from it, where Denmark has few people who can benefit from it? And does the rapporteur not think it is a pity that we are actually seeing people who now want to move from Denmark to be able to get the medicine in another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105220	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105221	But I really think I would be making a violent attack on what I have just said here if I started standing up here from the platform and assessing individual preparations, on the one hand, and on the other, and on the other hand, on the way through the work of the Medical Council they have had. Well, that is by its very nature what lies in the work of the Medical Council. By looking at it a little more closely, I have noticed that we have changed the choice of methods, in other words, in the large areas of medicine, in the large areas of therapy we are running with QALY, that is to say with statistics, and in the case of rare diseases and minor therapy areas we will be running with a more qualitative view of the individual preparations. This is something that we are going to follow closely, and moreover, under the auspices of the Danish Medical Council, a specific manual of methods is currently being drawn up and will be discussed on the Board of Directors of Danske Regions, and I would almost think that it will also be discussed here in the Danish Parliament to some extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105335	I find it sad that everything is made up of measuring instruments. We are now missing the humanity that is important, including in these situations, because two people are not the same, two diseases are not the same, especially when it comes to rare diseases. So it cannot be put into a spreadsheet, as one apparently would like to do on the Left side. And I can see that this was quite convenient, because the former President of the Left did not want to give priority, because then the regions would only have to do so, and then responsibility would be pushed away. That's amazing. I do not think I have a question for the rapporteur; I am just saying that it is sad that we have arrived at this point, that it is a form to decide whether or not to take medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105415	However, I would like to answer the question I did not receive, because Mrs Liselott Blixt is quite wrong in principle here. The work of the Medical Council will not be based on statistical assessment in the case of rare diseases. In other words, it will be a qualitative assessment, precisely because there are rare diseases. So what the specialist committees are going to do is to make a professional assessment which is not based on statistical reporting, because that is not possible. So what Mrs Liselott Blixt says is actually not quite right. It has nothing to do with things being stuffed into a spreadsheet, almost quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105500	Thank you. No one else has signed up, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105518	Thank you very much for the floor. I have been looking forward to today's debate and I would like to thank the authors for raising this issue, because it is an extremely important issue that we face when we talk about medicines for rare diseases. After all, these are people with quite serious suffering, where there are often, if at all, no alternative methods of treatment. Now I understand that there must be no tools on the platform, so unfortunately I have not been able to make a powerpoint presentation. I could talk at length about population sizes and statistical significance, impact sizes and things like that, but I'm going to save my fellow rapporteurs from that or you'll have to catch me afterwards. The preface of today's questions is absolutely correct. Medicines for rare diseases are developed and tested in other ways than medicines for more widespread diseases. Therefore, they must also be assessed differently. This is due to a number of factors that several of my fellow rapporteurs have already mentioned, and there will often be a much worse understanding of these rare diseases. By its very nature, it is difficult to make large, well-controlled and randomised studies simply because there are not enough patients to take off. It is very slow and expensive to develop medicines for small groups of patients. This is well known, and that is why special programmes have been drawn up both in the American FDA and in the European EMA for these so-called orphan drugs, because you cannot simply transfer the requirements one to one from ordinary to rare diseases. This is not a new phenomenon, but a recognised issue. That is why this group of medicines has also seen a rapid increase in recent years. This is pleasing, not least for patients. So the questioners are quite right about the problem, but in my view they are fundamentally wrong about the solution, because it will not be better if we move the assessment out of the Medical Council. We do not get a better understanding of, or a greater data base from, the disease. It merely requires a new independent body to assess these types of medicine. And then we're straight on. Because I assume that the questioners also believe that the assessment should be professionally based and that we should not compromise on the arm's length principle, because it is at least an essential principle for me that this is not a political decision but a professionally based assessment, otherwise we are undermining our own healthcare. We have to give priority to our resources, whether we like it or not, in a health service that is already under pressure. Therefore, evidence of efficacy must be required so that we can assess whether a new medicinal product meets the price required by the industry. It is quite obvious to me that we have to do this. It should also be borne in mind that adjustments have already been made to the practice of the Medical Council and that several changes are on the way. As mentioned by among others: The Minister changed the principles for the assessment of rare diseases in January 2019 and this has resulted in 100 per cent. In this case, two products have been evaluated and approved by the Medical Council. As you know, other methods of measurement are also being introduced, such as: QALY, i.e. Quality-adjusted life-years, where you look not only at the life-long but also at the quality of the extra years you get. It's something that I've been incredibly fond of for a long time before I went into politics. There are lots of challenges also with QALYs, but it gives something extra that is important to have in the evaluation of medications. So I recognise the premise, but not the conclusion of the questions put by the authors to the Minister here today. Medications for the treatment of rare diseases will by their very nature differ from other medicines, and therefore the assessment must also be different. It is well known, and the expertise is present in the Medical Council. I therefore see no reason to move the evaluation out of the Medical Council, but I think it is important that we keep track of how it is going, what is happening and whether they are fulfilling the mandate they have received from the Danish Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105915	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124105921	Thank you very much for a fine answer. Could the rapporteur imagine a council council which, as it were, has rare diseases in a group, just as they have now tried to make a different design of measuring instruments, but where they also look at the economy? For some of what we hear in the hospital wards is that when you need expensive medicine, you have to choose between two nurses or the medicine, and that is also one of the reasons why we want to pull it out. Because that is often what you think of in the regions, that is to say, when you are given expensive medicines, there is something else you cannot afford. So our call was also to create an independent economy, which was based on rare diseases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110006	One can imagine a great deal and without a very specific proposal it is difficult to say 'yes' or 'no' to it. I just want to say that dragging the assessment somewhere else does not solve the problem, in terms of how we should assess it, and I think that we can get just as far within the framework of the Medical Council by changing what we are making of the assessment. As I mentioned, there are recognised, well-known ways of measuring medicine where there is no other preparation to measure it against, where you look at what would happen if you did nothing. Now we are not going to go into detail here, but there is a way to do that, where you cannot necessarily do a large, well-controlled, randomized study, as we know it from other disease areas, and where you do not necessarily measure a preparation against an old one. So the methods are there and I see no reason to believe that the methods cannot be brought into the Medical Council by the experts we have sitting there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110053	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110056	But we do not follow the principles that we are actually working on. Now, for good reasons, the rapporteur was not here when we discussed the principles, but we did so precisely because we heard that the Medical Council was being formed, and we would then hurry to establish some principles so that we also ensured that expensive medicines, medicines for rare diagnoses and innovative medicines, and that we were first movers, etc. etc., come with me. I just think that the problem is that the Medical Council does not live up to the seventh principle, as well as many others do not think that they do, and then they do not do what they should. So there are some things where we do not follow the principles that we have given from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110138	As I also mentioned in my question to Mrs Liselott Blixt earlier, we have to look at it. After all, we have changed our practice just over a year ago, which means that preparations which were not approved earlier will, in all likelihood, be approved today. This can be verified by taking the nine medicines, which have been through the process and which have received a 'no', and by seeing whether it will change anything, and that will ultimately mean that it will not be necessary to use the seventh principle so often out there because the medicine will be available. I fully agree that it is important that we have the medical assessment as the basic principle of complete but it must still be based on a professional basis and on evidence of efficacy, especially in the case of expensive medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110216	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110230	SF's usual rapporteur in this area, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, is unfortunately prevented from being here today, and then I was the one who won the prize by being allowed to be here, and I can hope that my past in regional work can bear me through. What's the price of a life? And what is the price of a good life? But it is impossible to answer, because every time we face specific fates, it is impossible not to want to help as much as possible. The stone-rich pharmaceutical industry would like to be even richer and would like all new expensive medicines to become standard treatment both in Denmark and in the rest of the world, and we can see that the increasing cost of medicines is taking on more and more resources. Politicians, neither in the Folketing nor in the regional councils, cannot and must not make the decisive decisions as to whether a new expensive medicine is in line with the effect. That's one of them. Which is why we have the Medicine Council. The Council must then, of course, draw on the experts who work with rare diseases... they cannot have all the competences on board all the time... and the Medical Council must explain the expected impact and forecast for patients compared to the price of the product. But in these calculations there are also paradoxes, because often costs are calculated narrowly in each area. However, there are many other costs of non-treatment which, in turn, are dried up in other areas. So an immediate saving or a small cost in the health sector sometimes costs money, for example. the area of employment. If we can prevent, for example. blindness means a world of difference for the individual and the family, but if we can prevent blindness in a child or a young person, we also prevent that citizen from being associated with extra costs for society for the rest of our lives. For there is a great economic difference between being able to take an education and caring for ordinary work in blindness with a good life and also with employment, but the economic difference should, however, be included in the overall calculation. After all, it is about income, taxes, cash benefits and other things that can get into play if you have a disease. However, the SF does not believe that we should change the competence of the Medical Council. Of course, all costs, including the derived ones, must be taken into account when important decisions are made that deeply affect other people's lives. However, the conclusion is that SF wishes to maintain the relationship and arm's length between the existing players.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110540	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124110553	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking this important question. This is an incredibly relevant issue, but it is also very emotional, because basically this is a debate about whether human life and quality of life can be made up of money. And we must note that we do this every day in the health service when there is no room for the elderly medical patient in the hospital and the patient is discharged prematurely, even if there is insufficient care available in the home community; when there is a citizen with mental illness who is rejected in the emergency reception because there is no room; when the staff is so pressured that there is no time for the necessary delivery, care or medication; or when there is no interpreter available for patients without sufficient language skills. It is all about priorities where absolutely necessary tasks are not being solved. And that has to do with human costs. That is why we must ensure both adequate resources, but we must also ensure that the resources we have are given the best possible priority. We must also do so when it comes to the priority of expenditure on medicines. Since 2007, the cost of medicine has doubled. Expenditure continues to increase, and so does the profits of the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, in 2017, the Danish Council of Medicine was set up as an independent council under Danske Regions in order to ensure the rapid and uniform entry into service of new medicines across hospitals and regions. It should make greater demands on the documentation of the effect of medicine, ensure a stronger basis for price negotiations and supply. In addition, the Medical Council must address itself to the seven principles of the Folketing's priority in hospital medicine: professionalism, independence, geographical equality, openness, the rapid entry into service of new effective medicines, more health for money and access to treatment. Therefore, the Medical Council has just been appointed to carry out the difficult task of assessing the efficacy of medicine. This is precisely not something that we, as politicians, have the power to assess. And that is why it is also important that we respect their efforts and that we refrain from interfering in their decisions in time and prematurely, because it is sensitive and because we have just given them a task. But it is clear that we must assess the framework within which they work. And it is, of course, the seventh principle of access to treatment that has been discussed. And that is partly understandable, because no one can imagine the impotence and desperation of treatment if it is rejected. One is completely innocently taken hostage, as we also discussed earlier, in a game of evidence, effect and price. There is no doubt at all that the hostage is the patient and the next of kin... a deeply unhappy situation. But who is the hostage taker? Is it the public sector that does not want to post or is it the pharmaceutical industry that pricing too high and does not offer transparency in research results behind the product? There is hardly a clear answer. But I think it is obvious that we need to look at the pricing of the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical industry does not price what has been of the cost of research and development. They are pricing precisely according to what society would have of costs if the product did not exist. They do not provide transparency in pricing and costs. They demand non-disclosure agreements which mean that other countries cannot see what we have paid for the product because they want to prevent competition. In other words, they are doing what they can to make as much profit as possible, and it will be patients and health care who will pay the price. That is why I think it is absolutely essential that we look at the conditions for the pharmaceutical industry to be able to price so high. And that's why I don't think the solution to this problem is to move tasks out of the Medical Council. The Medical Council has changed methods here in January 2019 compared to the small diagnosis groups and rare diseases. I think it is quite sensible to focus on development, because it is clear that there is a particular challenge in the rare diagnoses, also in relation to whether the specialist committees have sufficient knowledge, resources and competences in relation to them. But I think that we should respect the work of the Medical Council; it is a difficult task that we have put before them. On the other hand, we must fight for better control of the pharmaceutical industry in relation to their secrecy and their high pricing. The Enhedslisten therefore supports the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111054	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111059	Thank you very much. In fact, I believe that Enhedslisten's hatred of companies that earn money is greater than the love of the small groups that actually need help. At least that is what the argument says. But would the rapporteur be able to see an advantage in withdrawing the whole area of rare diagnoses? When it comes to hospital treatment, we can see that we have two small centres of rare diagnoses, which lack focus, lack of doctors, lack of money and finances, etc. And they're the ones standing in the line of fire when it's that we're looking at what we can afford at the hospital. We could pull out the area so that it is not a choice between one thing or the other and so that we ensure that there is also affordability to treat people with a rare diagnosis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111146	Well, in the Enhedslisten, we have no hatred for the pharmaceutical industry. They do an excellent job in researching and developing new medicine. The only problem is that the way they're pricing is completely wrong. And what we are asking for is, in fact, just a more reasonable pricing in relation to having paid the cost of research and development also for those preparations that do not turn into anything and, of course, there must also be a reasonable profit. But when we see that there are preparations, where profits are simply abnormally high, even when we see it in relation to other areas of business, then we have to take action. For who is it that pays the price for the high pricing? Yes, it's staff and patients in the health care system. And that is why what we are asking for is, in fact, just a fair pricing, and that is where we think we have a task. In relation to the question of whether we will withdraw the assessments of medicines for the rare diagnoses from the Medical Council, I would say that, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I do not think that is the solution. For who, then, is it that has to assess its impact on it? When Novartis comes with their Luxturna preparation, we will have to have some who can look at what evidence is behind it. I mean, how much effect is there? What are the side effects? And there we have to have a professional body to assess it, because we cannot do that as politicians. Nor can we just leave that to the pharmaceutical industry, because then it means an excessively high price. So I think the Medical Council is absolutely necessary, also in relation to the small diagnoses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111302	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111305	Well the Danish People's Party agrees that you have to make a lot more of it with the pharmaceutical companies, create more transparency and something like that. We are in complete agreement on that. But that doesn't mean we don't think about the people who actually get stuck in this game. That is also why we are not just talking about medicine; now perhaps there will soon be a reading board. And who's gonna get stuck? It is therefore every time the small groups, where there is no focus, where there is no economy, where nobody really cares about them. And that is where I ask the rapporteur whether you can see an interest in pulling it out, too, so that the other departments do not have to stand and watch that we can treat 1,000 cancer patients with one preparation in one department, but one patient in another department.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111348	Well, I don't agree that we don't focus on the small and rare diagnoses. I think it is extremely important that we have it. That is also why I commend the Danish People's Party for taking up the debate. Because I think it is important and it is clear that there are some particular challenges precisely in relation to the rare diagnoses. I just don't think the solution is to pull it out of the Medical Council, because whether it's patients with small and rare diagnoses or if it's larger patient groups, there's a need to have an independent body to assess the effects of medication. It is not always the case that what the pharmaceutical industry praises their preparations is quite correct. That is why we need to have an assessment of it, and that is what the Medical Council can deliver. We should not do that, but we should allow the Medical Council to make the professional assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111440	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party for debating the issue of medicines for patients with rare diagnoses. I have no doubt about the good intentions of the proposers to move the evaluation of medicines to patients with rare diagnoses out of the Medical Council, because it is probably the wish of the proposers that more new expensive medicines be approved as standard treatment for these patients. But that's exactly why we set up the Medical Council. Here we have gathered the expertise, and in the Medical Council we get a balance of impact and price on the basis of the results presented by the pharmaceutical companies. The question is often how much medical treatment can cost, measured against a weak or very limited effect, and how good documentation there should be. If they are to pay hundreds of millions of kroner for medicines with little or even no effect, the regions will only have the opportunity to cut back on other treatments or lay off some of their staff unless, in other words, the Folketing and the government provide increased funding for medicines. That is why it is a good thing that we have the Medical Council, which we have just evaluated. And it is not the case that the Medical Council only rejects medications where the effect is uncertain. I have just delved into it and found a simple example in which the Medical Council has made an assessment based on very limited data of a product called Crysvita, which is a remedy for a rare hereditary bone disease called something as exotic as hypophosphataemia, also abbreviated XLH, which is also a little more mouthed. Children suffering from XLH are at risk of severe bone deformity due to a genetic change affecting the kidney's ability to retain phosphorus in the body. In the most serious cases, the disease gives children crooked legs as soon as they get up and go. Crysvita is the first treatment for XLH patients. It has been approved by EMA on the basis of an open-label phase 3 study with only 52 children aged 5 to 12 years. The Medical Council assesses the quality of the evidence to be very low and the clinical added value to be unknown, but presumably moderate to large. The list price for this treatment is 1.7 million. kr. per year per year, patient, and even in view of moderate to high added value, the advice has assessed the cost to be very high. Nevertheless, in view of the severity principle, in this case, the Medical Council decided to approve treatment for the most affected children and adolescents, with the reservation that after 3 years it will be examined whether new data have been obtained on the basis of the treatment. By this I mean it can be said that the Medical Council has made a very good decision. Because we can't just let the millions go. The fact is that the manufacturers of new animal medicines must ensure that the medicine is tested on a larger number of patients, so that you do not buy the cat in the bag, to put it that way. I think it would be useful to propose a model for patients to be put in care, which is often the case for children; it is a question of treatment and then only pays the manufacturer if it turns out that there is also the desired effect for patients who are being treated. Then, if the effect turns out to be satisfactory, you can withdraw treatment on a larger scale to perhaps include the entire group of patients who have the disease. It could be a model that could be tried out, because it is often very few people that are involved, and therefore the data base is very limited. It is a model where you go in and try it out, and if it has the desired effect, then you pay the price, and if it has no effect on the patients you start it, then you can avoid having to pay for the product. Overall, it will be a no to the proposal that expensive medicines should be pulled out of the Medical Council. We think that the Medical Council is very good and has shown that we have the opportunity to get more discounts on the medicine than we were given in the past, and if we look at what other countries pay for medicine, then we have come into a more favorable situation than we were before we got the Medical Council, and I think we should be happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111952	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124111956	Thank you very much. The rapporteur himself refers to EMA, which has approved a preparation, and they did so with Luxturna, which is an eye disease, an eye disease that you get as a child and slowly becomes blind. In fact, I read an article by our good friend in the Health Policy Journal, which writes if we should not look at expensive medicines as capital expenditure. I thought it might be in the spirit of the Conservatives. We are going to see medicines in the future such as those here, which are more targeted at the individual, that is to say genetic preparations, and it is becoming more expensive, and I think that now that the rapporteur himself says that there was a preparation which EMA has approved, what they also have with Luxturna, which is for this eye disease, I would say that the reason for saying no in the Medical Council is the economy. My question then is whether the rapporteur thinks that it is to live up to the seventh principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112102	Well, it is in my best opinion to live up to the seventh principle when you have a very expensive preparation, which you then assess in relation to the effect it has. That is why we have set up the Medical Council to assess these things, and I think we can say that it has been taken into account. But, as I have said, I would like to propose, in relation to those very expensive new preparations, where you may have too little data, that you make a system where you go in and say that we will only pay if it is the case that you achieve the desired effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112142	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112145	But isn't it because they think blindness doesn't die? If we now saw it as a construction cost, that is, that we actually helped some people to keep sight, as it turns out this means can, it could be part of our solution for our entire economy. These are some of the things that medicine can do, and which fortunately also keeps people away from the hospital beds as we see it getting better with. So can we see it as a construction cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112222	You always have to see things in a whole. Now I do not quite know the story of the preparation that the rapporteur mentions there, but overall, I think we should be glad that we have a pharmaceutical industry that is constantly developing new products that give people a better life and that can help keep them healthy and in the labour market and increase their quality of life at all. But you always have some border cases where you weigh the effect in relation to the price. As far as the product is concerned, which can prevent blindness, as I have said, I do not know the product, can one ask whether one can now also be sure that it can, or is it something that lies many years in the future and something like that? These must be the considerations that the Medical Board has had as they assess the product in question. However, as I said, I think that the Medical Council is the best place we have for assessing medicinal products in terms of efficacy and price, and that is why I think we should keep the evaluation in the Medical Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112335	Thank you. All patients are entitled to treatment, if possible, and patients should not be penalised for being affected by a rare disease, i.e. not many people have. That is why I think the intentions behind this question debate are good and I can support them. So thank you for the call for it. In the alternative, we do not support withdrawing the treatment of rare diseases from the Medical Council, because that is right now the best we have. I do not know exactly how the Medical Council works in everyday life, but I would strongly urge the Medical Council to use the specialist committees. I suspect that they could be used more, and they are important to use, because there are specialists in the small diseases that work with it in everyday life and they have a knowledge that cannot possibly be held in the Medical Council. I would also like to say that it is important to look at the concept that the Medical Council should assess the effect of the medicine in terms of price. Disease has many different grades. Cancer can be cured, and diabetes can be neutralized, so you can have a life without being burdened with the disease, and as far as muscle loss is concerned, there is a possibility of little progress, or you may be able to prevent a decline. It is of great value to the people who are affected by the diseases. So when we say'more health for money', as I have heard here today, I think that one should think very carefully, because what is more health for the individual patient? It is not just the many that can be saved from the costs that are about to have a disease, but it is also the few. Another thing that I also think is important in relation to the small diseases here is that you cooperate with other countries, because if we have a disease that 26 patients here in Denmark suffer from, it may be difficult to make any statistical material, but if you cooperate with other countries where the disease also exists, you have the opportunity to do some statistics and assess whether the medicine has a good effect. A third thing that I think we should look at, and which has also been promoted in the past, is the cost of medicines, and there are many reasons for this. We have expensive pharmaceutical prices for many products, and it actually turns out that the pharmaceutical industry spends more money on marketing than they spend on researching, and that makes no sense. The fourth point again is that we need to focus much more on prevention. We probably cannot prevent these rare diseases, but we can prevent many other diseases that can release some money so that we can take care of the rare diseases, and we could do that by seeing much more about diet, exercise and stress, which is also an expensive disease to treat. So we have some things that we can do and that we should do for everyone's health. I continue to believe that the Medical Council is the best, so I therefore support the proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112646	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from New Citizens at first, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112706	Thank you for the floor. In public health care it is the case that medicines must be evaluated by the Medical Council before they can be used. After all, these are assessments that must be objective and objective and, of course, the aim is to ensure that there is always a balance between the price and the effect of the medicine. It is a balance that can be very unpleasant to think about. A number of rapporteurs have also mentioned this, since there is a price to be paid for disease and human welfare. So there are many dilemmas in it. But even under a social democratic government, the state's financial capacity is not unlimited, so otherwise there is a risk that we are giving a wrong priority and, overall, it will harm more than it will benefit. Even without PowerPoint, Stinus Lindgreen provided a brilliant review of the professional challenges in evaluating medicines against rare diseases. I will not try to outdo it, but I will agree with it. We believe that the problem raised by the Danish People's Party is real, but we also believe that the solution envisaged by DF is wrong. The Medical Council is a good institution. It can undoubtedly be improved, and we are happy to support initiatives that lead to improvements, but precisely because it is a good institution, it should not be undermined, and the proposal here will do so. I also think that a little thought should be given to the alternative. If there is no body working according to the principles of the Medical Council, lobbyists for both drugs and patient groups will get much easier games than they do today, and this can lead to very unsavory campaigns based on individual cases and on completely unspeakable priorities in health care. It is, after all, a situation which is simply worse than the situation we have today. We have not been sent in advance the proposal for adoption in which the governing party is involved. That makes sense, so it may be that we support it, but we need to read it a little more closely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124112950	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further and the next is the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113003	Thank you for that and also thank you for today's debate from me. As I started by saying, and I think the debate between all the rapporteurs is marked by the fact that it is not easy to prioritise. It is hard, but we will have to make the tough decisions as to whether the effect of new animal medicines is in line with the price that the industry demands. The assessment requires solid professional expertise, and the question we are discussing here today is: where is the best job? After all, it is today with the Medical Council, which, as you know, also has a great deal of focus on the challenges of assessing medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. In addition, however, we have today also focused on the importance of remembering the seventh principle in the regions. If you take stock of it, you can see that they follow it in three out of four requests from doctors to use exactly medicines that the Medical Council has not recommended, and that clearly belongs to the picture. I also think that the debate shows that we are far in agreement on the objective and to ensure that resources are used wisely. It does not make sense to spend a large part of the health care budget on medicines that have no proven effect. We cannot defend that when the money will go from warm hands, prevention, treatment, care, etc. So the goal can never be to open up a roof-top self-table for the pharmaceutical industry, lobbyists and others by establishing a new model on industrial terms that does not encourage industry to provide documentation for the new products being developed. New innovative medicines are extremely important. But we also need to be able to say no if companies charge exorbitant prices without at the same time being able to demonstrate a similar effect. As I said, I will follow the work of the regions and the Medical Council to look at the impact of the change of method, and I will keep the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly informed. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Medical Council has taken up the issue and changed the method, so that more account is taken of the challenges of precisely assessing medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113239	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113242	I wonder if it is not sad to be a minister in a country which is one of the only ones who does not give priority to any medicine, as the other countries do. And I wonder whether this is something the Minister of Health is talking about with the other health ministers, because it must be interesting that you are the only country, such as the United Kingdom. We are not going to give any of those preparations here and that you are happy with it and you are thinking: Yes, we have not done that. Is that what the Minister thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113310	Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113312	No, I am glad to be a minister in a country with a strong health service where there is a very, very high level of professionalism and where we have succeeded in what many of my colleagues in the rest of the world are struggling with, namely to better deal with the huge increase in medical costs. As we can broadly see, it is of course the case that, whether the public pays or whether private pays, we have seen a general increase. In Denmark we have some tools, so I am very, very pleased with that. Then I am also satisfied, as I said in my speech here at the end, that the Medical Council has changed the method of assessing exactly the medicines, the preparations we are talking about here and since they have changed the method, 100 per cent have been approved. of the applications received.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113413	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113416	Will the Minister at all set something in motion to investigate some of these things? Maybe get a lower price or some other thing? What will the Minister do? It must be the prime task of a health minister to help some of the citizens of Denmark who are ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113433	We can't argue about that description of the task at all. After all, there has just been an evaluation of the work of the Medical Council. That was the general work, and it was a great evaluation. But then the second task is to evaluate the change of method that has taken place and to assess its effects and whether it needs to be changed. I will follow it very, very closely and discuss it with the regions and with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113502	Thank you. There are a few more brief comments. The next one's from sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113514	In general terms, we agree with the government's handling of this issue. I would like to return to the formalistic nature of the way in which this debate has been handled by the government. I just want to hear from the Minister whether it will be the government's method of working forwards to base its proposals for adoption only in relation to questions debates on its own parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113536	Thank you for that question. There I can say very clearly: no, it will not. I would also like to express my regret from this because I have heard both the Danish People's Party and several others say that they had either received the draft proposal for adoption very late or had not received the draft text for adoption at all. It is absolutely essential that when we discuss such difficult areas and also difficult political issues as we have to say, this is where a broad consensus could be reached, that it also requires a proper process and proper time. I must be the first to regret the fact that it has failed here, and I must also say that I have already taken care of the fact that this does not happen again after the talk and what has happened here today. So, of course, I have to be measured on that too, I know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113624	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113632	Thank you. Apparently we have had a debate of over an hour and a half which is really about a single specific medicinal product. In other words, we have spent an hour and a half lobbying for a specific medicinal product. Does the Minister share my view that this is a worse way of giving priority to medicine than the method we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113659	I certainly agree with what came to the question, namely that medicines should be given priority and assessed in places where we have our medical profession, and where effects and side effects are collected and elucidated by the medical profession, and that is exactly what the Medical Council is doing. Perhaps I think that the characterism of the debate is just as simplistic, because there are some very relevant and very interesting principles in play here, and I think there has been a good debate on them. And it also looks to the Folketing to address the major principles that lie behind such an important element as priority and evaluation of medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113747	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. Then the rapporteur for the questioners Mrs Liselott Blixt has asked to be able to round off the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113803	Thank you very much. I would only like to thank you for the debate. I am glad that some people think that this has been an important debate. I am sad that some people feel that it is a waste of time to talk about some citizens who fall between two chairs. The fact that I mention two different medicines is because they are the examples of what we will also be able to see in the future. These are also some of the examples that make me fight for these people. I spend more than an hour and a half on a day fighting for these people. I have spent 12 years fighting for the people that many others just think are indifferent and that you don't want to help. That is why I think it is a pity that, as a minister, we do not say: what can I do? Instead, you put the ball over at the regions, over at the Medicine area. It does not relieve the Minister of responsibility. I will continue to stop the Minister from doing so, and this is not the last time we are going to discuss this. I just want to thank you from here. Thank you for the debate. It's been exciting, no matter what you think. The citizens know a little more about how to prioritise from in here, and they can then take stock of it. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113913	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113917	Yes, and that is just a brief comment which does not necessarily require an answer. I see it more as an expression of the right of the strong that some have the opportunity to fight for a medicinal product right in the Chamber because they have an advocate. What about all those who don't have a mf that will fight for their preparation? They're not gonna be very well placed in this situation. And that is where I think we should have some factual and professional priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113946	That's where I can tell you, sir. Henrik Dahl, that those people come to me too, and I just as much fight for them. So the weakest also have a mouthpiece. They have it in me. So I don't want it to depend on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124113954	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place only on Tuesday 28 January 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114020	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114034	Thank you for the floor. I think I speak on behalf of a great many future, present and former students when I say that today is a really big day. It has been long awaited, because today we are dealing first with the draft law to abolish the education ceiling. The bill is an expiry of the 2020 Finance Act and with that bill the legal status will be reinstated from before 1 February 2017. In practice, this means that it will again be possible to carry out more than a fully state-funded higher education. If you have already completed higher education, you will now have the opportunity to complete a new course of training of the same or shorter duration. The bill we are discussing today is about all the young people whose dreams have changed because they have become wiser and want to change their paths. It is about young people who find it difficult to find a job with the training they have completed. It is about young people who see exciting opportunities in combining the education they have already taken with another and perhaps new education. It is about all the young people who simply chose wrong in the first place. The stories have been many. The educational ceiling has proved to be a leg buckle and a source of frustration. Today we say very clearly to all the young people that it's okay to choose wrong, it's okay to choose if it's okay to get smarter. Too many young people today feel pressured by having to perform, having to find the right way in life in the first chop and having to be successful. With the abolition of the education ceiling, we ease part of the pressure on a generation where too many people are affected by doubt, stress and anxiety, and too many are affected by performance pressures. The abolition of the educational ceiling does not only do it, but it is an important step on the way to freeing the young generation from the performance race. Because when you're young, you have to be allowed to experiment, you have to be allowed to test yourself off and take chances. And the sure choice is far from always the best choice, and sometimes you step aside, and then you have to be able to choose again. That is the only responsible signal to send to the thousands of young people who are in doubt. This is also how we create the best framework for the next generation to carry our society further and develop it. That is why I am somewhat puzzled that the Left today, contrary to the promises of the election campaign, apparently intends to oppose the bill to abolish the education ceiling. Why is it that the Left will not help ease the pressure on young people and students? Why is it that the Left will not help send the very clear signal to the young people of the country that it is okay to choose wrong? I hope we can get some answers today, not least for the sake of all the students and students and young people who may have crossed the left at the last election, among other things. Because the Left said that they went to the polls to abolish the education ceiling. I hope we get some answers from the Left today to some of those questions. In conclusion, before we go further into the discussion, I would like to express my special thanks to the many students and students who, in the associations of the student and student movement, have engaged and have stood up on behalf of their own generation and spoken against politicians. They have set themselves up and explained why the training ceiling has had unfair consequences and why it has sent the most unfortunate signals to their generation. I think we owe them special thanks today, because if it were not for them, we would probably not be dealing with the bill at all today. Social democracy wholeheartedly supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114425	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114431	I would just like to say, as a start, that I fully agree with words for words in the speech that was just given, and my question is really just such out of curiosity: what kind of interrogations have made the Social Democrats stand with a different attitude to it? One of the things that I really respect and appreciate is that there has been such a new direction in education policy and tone on the part of the government in relation to the previous government. So I am just quite sincerely curious about what kind of discussions and middle bills have led to the social democracy being held elsewhere today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114510	Just like this bill sends a signal to young people that it's okay to get smarter, that's what we've become in Social Democracy. Because at the time we voted in favour of the education ceiling, probably primarily because we wanted to finance a solution to the unemployment allowance, but also because we did not see all the consequences that the training ceiling would have. There we have now learned more from the many stories that have been told about young people who have ended up in unfortunate situations, where there has been a leg buckle, and not least all the young people who have told us how pressure they have felt about an educational ceiling, because it has sent a signal to them that it was not okay to choose wrong and that they should be stone-proof of the choice they had made. That's where we've gotten smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114548	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114551	This is a comment which just supports the rapporteur. The focus on well-being that is currently in the government, i.e. how it is that we ensure a motivating learning environment, is one of many links, you might say. So I just wanted to say from the alternative to the Social Democratic Party that we are fully on that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114615	Thank you, and I'm really glad. I also agree that this is not what is doing alone, but it is a first step towards ensuring better well-being for our students and for all our young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114625	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114632	Thank you for the floor. After all, the educational ceiling was rolled through by the three largest parties in the Folketing in the last days of the pure V-government's time in 2016. Perhaps I lack a little more reflection from the Social Democratic Party on why it was so important to roll through the educational ceiling. For when the three largest parties wanted it, it could of course be no matter what the rest of the Folketing thought at the time, as the Folketing had put together. Why was this important to the Social Democracy in 2016, and what has happened to today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114705	First of all, it was important because the training ceiling was part of the financing of being able to do something in the area of unemployment benefits. But as I also just answered Mr. Uffe Elbæk, we have also become wiser, and in 2016 we did not see all the consequences that the education ceiling has proved to have for young people who have felt too pressured to have to make the right choice in the first place, and it has ended up with too many young people on their educational path.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114728	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114735	How many people do the Social Democrats expect to take advantage of the opportunity to take a double education now that the education ceiling is gone?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114747	I do not have a clear answer to that today. I do not think there will be many, and it was not really until the ceiling on education was introduced. I really think the most important thing about this bill is the very clear signal that we send to all the young people in the country that it's okay to choose wrong. It's okay that you have chosen a path that turned out not to be right for you and then you have the opportunity to choose a new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114806	Thank you, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114810	How many people do the rapporteur think have actually caught up with? What many, many young people have been stuck in this educational ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114823	I believe that, having followed the debate on the educational ceiling and, in fact, since its implementation, listening to the many pupils and students, we will be able to hear that they have told stories, both about how they have ended up standing and could not move forward in the education system because they have ended up with an education they probably should not have had and they are now given the opportunity to choose again. But there are also the stories of the very many young people who have felt that the ceiling on training was a pressure on them, a pressure that the choice of training they had made should be the right one and that there was no other way. This has actually meant stories about students who have dropped out of their education just before they were completing their Bachelor's degree programme, for example, because they were in doubt whether it was actually the education they would end up with, and they would not dare take the chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114902	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114905	We're talking about stories. After all, it has always been possible to decide whether or not to do so in the course of your education. That is not a problem, and we can continue to do so. So I'm asking if you know how many it is. We have tried to find out what kind of people are getting into trouble and how many people really have that problem. I'd like to know if you have any figures and any idea of that instead of the stories and a debate. Because we've heard a lot about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124114932	I don't have a specific figure with today. However, I can only say that when you talk to students and students around the country's education programmes and with the student and student organisations, you have no doubt that there are young people who are caught up in the educational ceiling. I myself have met students who have told me that they were finished with their bachelor's assignment at the university and chose not to hand it in because they were in doubt about what the consequence would be if it really turned out that it wasn't the education they were going to have. After all, it is quite headless that young people have chosen not to complete their training because, because of the ceiling on training, they were in doubt whether it was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115001	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We shall move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115018	Thank you for the floor. I can say that we in the Left have also been surprised by the effect of the restriction, the regulation of access, that is to say what is called the training ceiling, and that is not what it is called and how it has actually worked. In Denmark we have a tradition that we have strong educations and that we have world-class educations. We are very concerned that we can use education and knowledge across different fields, and there we have to say that what we need a training system for is to ensure professional resilience and professional adaptability. We need that. When we look at the fact that we voted in favour of this law at the time, it was rather opposed to our overall position, because we really want to have a rather free choice and to be able to move in the direction we would like. But the essence was, as the previous rapporteur has said, that we had a challenge with the benefit system, where some people were in the situation that they were about to fall out, and there is the fact that we in the Left have the starting point for the money to fit in. So there were some difficult political choices at the time, and we have to recognise that what we have seen is somewhat similar to what the previous rapporteur said. We have seen that for some it has probably created some myths about what the possibilities were and how one was tied up, we may not have sold the opportunities well enough, and there has indeed been a list of what kind of training one could take after one had taken an education and where there was good employment opportunities. However, we recognise that there has been an insecurity in the families and young people, so we recognise that as far as the zero error culture and the right choice are concerned, and so on, we recognise that there is a challenge. So in the Left we actually sympathise with the proposal that lies and, on that basis, we choose, so to speak, that we have a challenge. Because we have the challenge of having chosen to make it more expensive to be a Dane with the Finance Act, and taxes have also been imposed on family-owned companies etc., and these are things we do not like. So we need funding, and that is why we have to say that the funding that lies here is not a financing that we agree with. We want us to have one more funding for which we can stand by the mark, and that is why we are choosing the model that we are abstaining. We are therefore in favour of abolishing the education ceiling in question, but we want the financing model to be different from that which is now there and we therefore choose to vote yellow on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115319	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Uffe Elbæk
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115324	I am a little surprised that you choose to vote yellow. In any case, before the elections, I heard very clear reports from the Left that we were also ready to abolish the education ceiling. Now there is a financial law that has gone through and there is an economy for it. You may disagree with the funding, but there is an economy for it, and then the signal from the Left must be that basically you still think the education ceiling is okay. I'm very surprised. Can the rapporteur not elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115403	I really don't think there's any reason to be surprised. We are, of course, expressing exactly what the rapporteur before me said, namely that we have actually been surprised at what the consequences have been. Because very, very few people are actually affected by the ceiling on training. But when we choose this approach, it is because we also said in the run-up to the elections: we want to abolish the education ceiling, but we also want to find a solution that one can finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115431	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115434	I think that as a student, if some students hear this debate, they get confused about the position of the Left. They say they want to end the training ceiling. Now a Finance Act has been passed, and the Left may then disagree with the way in which the Finance Act has been put together, but we have abolished the training ceiling or I hope that we will get so far that we have abolished the training ceiling. Why the hell does the Left not just say: we also want the education ceiling abolished, so of course we support this? It seems that the economy is more important than the young.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115510	I have to say that I think that we are precisely signalling that we consider the problem that has arisen about what is referred to as the training ceiling to be real. What we are then just saying is that we want another funding, and we do not agree with the funding that has been provided. That is the consequence of our voting yellow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115528	Well, then, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115532	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and for his sympathy. I am here with a graphic from Facebook now I have made it very, very big, so I hope the rapporteur can see it with a picture of a big smiling Tommy Ahlers, on which it is written: Away with the educational ceiling. And with great downstairs it says: Left. It is, of course, a very simple and, in fact, a very fine message, with which I fully agree. My question to the rapporteur is this: does not a graphic like this give the clear impression and the clear picture that one is against the educational ceiling, and can the rapporteur then confirm that what is currently under way is a clear example of a word I actually hate a breach of promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115617	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I should just like to point out that it must be the spoken word that is being used in the Chamber, because it may be difficult to see what is being shown, but it may also be difficult for the rapporteurs to record what is being shown. But now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115634	Thank you. But I can say quite clearly that what I am saying here from the platform is exactly what Tommy Ahlers said before the elections, namely that we wanted to get rid of the education ceiling, but also that we wanted to find funding that was one by one so that we could finance the abolition of the education ceiling. That is exactly what we said in the run-up to the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115656	Thank you. Now I want to leave the graphics behind, but when you have it, I just want to say that there is nothing with any middle bills or anything about the fact that if you make some sort of agreement that fits, you might want to, if you find out someday, perhaps vote for the education ceiling. It says that the Left would like to abolish the education ceiling if they regain power. You don't want that now. Now in Copenhagen and many other places where many students live, they have been told that if they voted for the Left and the Left regained government power, the educational ceiling would be abolished. What will the rapporteur say to all the young people who have voted on the Left of the clear conviction that the education ceiling would be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115733	I would say exactly the same thing I have said here from the platform, namely that our approach is that we will get funding other than that which lies there. It has become more expensive to be a Dane. We want to prioritise the funds differently, and that is why we are voting yellow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115747	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115749	Thank you. It has, of course, been interesting to follow how the Left was at first a driving force in introducing the educational ceiling, which very many young people were sad about, for then in the middle of the election campaign very conveniently, shortly before people were going down and voting, to want to abolish the education ceiling. Soon after the elections, it would not be abolished anyway, and now we will vote yellow. I think that's strange. I really think that I need some security first of all, because something important to the SF is that this educational ceiling will not come back if the government one day has to change, which I hope will not be the case. So can the rapporteur promise that it will not be the case that the Left will again table or vote in favour of a proposal for a similar training ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115836	Our approach to voting yellow is, of course, to indicate that we will leave the decision that is going to be taken now in force, but that we will find another funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115847	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115849	I asked you something else. I asked if the rapporteur would promise that the Left will not introduce a training ceiling again if they gain power. I just hope I can get a yes or a no or a promise. That's one thing. The second thing is that it is something strange about the financing discussion. I've never heard it before in my 41⁄2 years in here. Does this also mean that the Left will not be involved in a police settlement, that one will not be involved in planting more untouched forests, that one will not accept that more teachers will be employed because it is also financed by the Finance Act? Will the Left report out of all of the stuff we're about to negotiate on a police settlement and perhaps on compensation that's being financed by the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115925	As far as I know, we're not negotiating a police settlement right now. I note that the Left agrees with the views expressed by the Social Democratic Party in relation to the consequences of the education ceiling, which is why we choose not to vote against but to vote yellow because we disagree with the financing model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115943	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124115948	I must admit that I am now a little confused about what the Left thinks about the question of the education ceiling. First you wanted to keep it; just before election day you changed your point of view so you wanted to get rid of it; now you don't want to get rid of it; and suddenly you vote yellow with the argument that you don't agree with the funding. However, in the Left's own draft budget, in which we ourselves had the opportunity to give another funding, it was not included either. So can the rapporteur explain what the view of the Left really is? Do we want to abolish the ceiling on education, or do we not want to abolish the ceiling on education?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120020	As it appears and as I have explained, we have sympathy for the elements contained in the proposal and we will not vote against it. However, we are voting yellow because we do not agree with the financing model on which the current financial law is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120036	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120038	In addition to going to elections to abolish the education ceiling, the Left also went to elections under the slogan the same welfare as the Social Democratic Party just without tax increases or anything like that. And now it's gonna have to be a test. Can you deliver all the same on welfare, improvement of education, etc. without tax increases? And isn't this just the first proof that I'm sure there will be a lot of evidence during this parliamentary term that the Left cannot provide the same welfare when you don't want to help find funding for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120107	There are, of course, a number of things that have been adopted, in what I call the Red Finance Act, which we do not support. So there are a number of things where we're not on board. That's why our approach is that we're gonna make the equation stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120128	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Dorthe Hindborg with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120132	Thank you. I have to admit that I'm also somewhat confused about this approach, and I think it must be hard for young people to understand this. I don't have that much seniority in here either, but it's also a little hard for me to understand this approach. How do we explain this to the ordinary students and the young people who are going into education? We know that when you start an education, you have a dream about what has to come after you. It can be really hard to know what it really is. We know this because we have the experience in life we have. I find it hard to understand what meaning it makes for students and what meaning it makes for society that you have to drop out when you reach a piece in your education • typically quite a short time before you could actually finish, and then you start something new. How can it be better economically for society? How can it be better for the labour market, which I have the impression of the Left is actually very concerned about, and which is crying out for labour? I find that difficult to understand; I would like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120236	That is not what we are saying. After all, we are saying that we have understood the message that it has created nervousness and to an extent that we had not foreseen, and the Social Democratic Party apparently did not. What makes us voting yellow in this context is funding. And what we are interpreting is that the education ceiling will be abolished, and our financing model will just be different from that which lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120303	Mrs Dorthe Hindborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120304	Thank you. Something else that's important to me is the misfortune we see. That was also mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. I think that is actually very serious. We see, as we think we can agree, much greater dissatisfaction among young people than I do when I say, for example. was learning. And I think it's actually sad, that is to say, to experience that you don't think it's important enough. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is one's attitude to this, and how is one going to help with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120342	It seems that the questioner is of the opinion that we are saying that the training ceiling must remain. We choose precisely to vote yellow, and we do so with the reasons I have given.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120357	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120414	Thank you. I should just like to ask very briefly: if you have the opportunity to do so and you cannot just find a different funding, will the Left reinstate the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120416	Our signal by voting yellow is that we recognise the challenges of the education ceiling. And when we vote yellow, it is alone because the funding there is, we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120429	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120437	Thank you. So I would like to hear: does the Left have a plan that the different funding that they want to find in order to abolish the ceiling on education should be found within the financial framework that already exists for education, or will they find the money elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120453	We don't have an overall plan for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120457	The next brief remark is from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120515	Thank you very much. I have to ask the rapporteur again whether the Left has any intention of reintroducing the education ceiling if power changes after the next elections. Because I do not think we are getting a clear answer from the rapporteur, so I would like to hear a yes or no to that. Will the Left promise that the educational ceiling will not be reinstated if power changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120519	It is the case that, by voting yellow, we have indicated that we understand the challenges that exist, but that what we disagree with is funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120531	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120532	So we cannot get a clear answer as to whether the Left will reinstate the education ceiling after a choice? It annoys me and I would just like to give the rapporteur another chance to answer whether or not it will be reinstated after an election. In the same vein, the rapporteur can also answer whether, if you want to finance it yourself, you will do so by means of more cuts in the education system, which has already been a great deal in previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120557	If it were our intention to reinstate it, we would probably vote red.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120604	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120607	After all, we are not getting any closer to any real answer from the rapporteur, so I would actually like to ask something else, but start by saying that it is depressing that you cannot actually guarantee that you will not reinstate the education ceiling. You just have to take note of that as a student out there and as a citizen and choose at all. But I would like to ask something else, because the rapporteur says in his speech that you did not foresee the pressure that the education ceiling brought about. I think it is quite right to recognise that we have become wiser. But I still wonder a little, because there were so many students, organisations, researchers and citizens who pointed out that this would create pressure, not only on the young people who will end up choosing a new education, but also on all those who are in doubt about what to choose. So I just want to hear: will you listen more to all those people later, if or when one day you might regain power and want to create a new education policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120706	In the Left, we always listen. But the essence is that what we were facing back then was a challenge in the benefit system, a challenge that I am, in effect, listening to the current government again being presented to and there we chose to say: How do we meet the challenge? We did so together with the Social Democratic Party, and there we found a solution. That solution then turns out to have had consequences that were more far-reaching, not for the specific students who had actually come into difficulties, but very, very much for how one perceived the situation and the pressure one experienced. So I think that our approach is clear and I understand that it has given rise to the issues that the previous rapporteur well illustrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120758	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120801	I just think it was remarkable that when the education ceiling was introduced there were so many who stressed how harmful this would be to all the young people who felt so enormously pressured by the austerity policy that I think the previous government put down very much over our entire education system. So I really just hope that the rapporteur, although he will not guarantee that the Left will not reinstate the education ceiling, will at least guarantee that you will actually listen to students, their organisations and educational researchers when you make policy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120843	I repeat, we always listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120843-2	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Left rapporteur Thank you for the floor!), so that we proceed in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124120856	Thank you. We have now discussed the limitation of dual education in here several times. I have stood here many times and defended the rule that was based on a logic that there should be restrictions on how much education one takes at the beginning. I was at a conference yesterday, which was very much about lifelong learning, which was about continuing training in all forms at all levels, and where you actually got into a discussion about how much education we should have when we start working and how much education is needed along the way. We're using today, I mean, it's about 97%. of our education budget to train at the start before we enter the labour market, and 3% while we are in the labour market. I do not have that discussion today. I think we could take that up. I actually think there's a need to take that. So, in fact, I still think that the very principle of limiting the amount of training you take before you enter the labour market can be good enough. But I must also say, when I stand here today, that I have learned from this process. At the time, I was involved in introducing the progress reform, which I thought was necessary at the time, and I think it was still so, but it provided a very clear framework for students. It pushed the student into de facto becoming more students than students because we came from in here and said: Now you have to do it, now you have to do it, and now you have to do it. Then comes this rule, which to some extent probably all students have been experienced as a door that has been closed. We don't want an education system where doors are closed; we want an education system where you can always move on where you can always build upstairs. When these actions give that experience, I am completely committed to abolishing it again. I'm afraid we can't change the experience in the young people's heads, but we can try to signal that we actually want an education system where wherever you are in the programme you can take some extra education, can move on, can build on top and can use it to change tracks to do something completely new, to get a new job, etc. etc. So at the same time, I think that when we do this, we also need to have the discussion on how to ensure that this is not just about being able to take two courses straight in rap, but about how to take lifelong learning-wise training along the way in your life when you need it, when you need it on the labour market, or when you as a person need it. That is why we support the draft law on the abolition of the restriction of dual education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121155	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121158	I think it is such interesting reports that come from the Danish People's Party. I fully agree, because one thing is that we are discussing the ceiling for education and training today, but what the rapporteur is also raising the debate is whether we have an educational system that corresponds to the labour market of the future, where we have to learn throughout our lives. It is just to emphasise that I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur brings that perspective into it and also in one way or another sets the context for the discussion we have today. So it's not really a question, it's just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121239	I am glad to hear that, because I think there is a basis for us to develop on this, that we can discuss together how to create it, how to create resources for it, how to get this lifelong learning, continuing training, etc. etc. implemented to be a reality in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121257	Thank you. The next short remark is Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121300	Thanks for the game. It has been some exciting debates we have had over the years, and I am glad that the Danish People's Party says so clearly that the limitation of dual education now needs to be removed and that it should not come back. I also think that these are some very exciting ideas that the rapporteur makes about lifelong learning, and I fully agree that we need to discuss how to get education later. I would just like to ask a question of pure curiosity: we have, after all, done this advanced education in universities, which is one year old and which you can take, even if you are out on the labour market, but it is not an option you have, for example. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur would be interested in discussing the possibility that at some point it might be possible to take it as a follow-up to professional training.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121354-2	Well, I'm very ready to discuss all forms of continuing training. I am not sure that this must necessarily be something that follows on from professional training. I have to admit that I see the one-year courses that we had completed as something that, if it is to have a life, should remind a little of vocational training, that is, something you take later in life as a supplement or further development of the education you already have. However, I am fully involved in discussing all possibilities for relevant further training.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121424	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121424-2	In fact, I fully agree with that. I think it was a mistake, but it was a political agreement, and I stand by it that you should be able to take that one-year education right after the bachelor, because there you have the candidate or whatever you want. So I also see it as something that you should be able to go to later, and fortunately there are also more education where you can come back after you have been on the labour market and then take it. What about making the model for professional education not that you can take it right after, but that you can return after some time in the labour market and then get such a 1-year master's degree?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121458	Well, I think there might be some exciting perspectives in that, so I would very much like to discuss the details of how to do such a thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121501	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121516	Thank you. Come on, I am glad to be here today for the first reading of the draft law on the abolition of the education ceiling. In Radicals we have fought against the ceiling of education from the start. We fought before the elections, we fought during the election campaign, and we stood firm after the elections, both when it came to the understanding paper and to the financial law negotiations. And frankly, I am really proud to be the radical rapporteur for higher education today. We write 2020 in the calendar, and fortunately we live in a world full of opportunities. Of course, our education system must also be full of this. With the abolition of the education ceiling, we will have more opportunities. If we have a teacher who has been three years on the labour market and finds that he or she wants to study as a social worker, then I see only a victory, both for the individual and for society, in letting him or her do so. The negative effects of the education ceiling have been severe, even worse, than I think, among the parties who voted in favour, were actually aware that they would be when it was adopted. With the fear of mischoosing, the fear of completing his education and the fear of regret having no choice, there has been a lack of uncertainty in our education system ever since the introduction of the educational ceiling. It has had an almost crippling effect on too many young people. We are putting an end to that now. Nor is it a secret that I was sincerely disappointed because the Social Democratic Party did not have the abolition of the education ceiling as a priority in the draft Finance Act. Fortunately, we were parties that stood firm for the students and for our degree programmes. Having said that, I am very pleased that the Minister for Education is now also putting on the social media, that you are really happy to have to abolish the education ceiling, and that we take responsibility together and make the changes we promised during the election campaign. I hope and expect that there will be no more sledgehammering in relation to the education ceiling and that we can now stand together to maintain its abolition. I would like to say a thousand, a thousand thanks to all the students who have fought with us. It pays off to fight for political change and we can be really proud that we are having the education ceiling demolished today. That is why, of course, I would like to say that we are very pleased to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121825	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124121833	Thank you. Why shouldn't a nurse be able to become a doctor? Why should a social worker not be able to become a psychologist, and why should a psychologist not be able to become a social worker? Why should a physiotherapist not be able to become a sports teacher, or why should a mathematician not be able to go back and become a mathematics teacher at a time when we need teachers? I've been looking for those answers for a few years, but I've never found them. The truth is enough and that's probably why we're here today... that there never really was a good answer to those questions. The fact is that the educational ceiling has created that state of affairs, has prevented people from becoming smarter and the desire to choose if they chose incorrectly in the first place, and at the same time a signal was sent not only in higher education, but all the way down through our education system, our youth education and our primary schools, that one should preferably choose correctly for the first time, otherwise the table might be caught. Why did you end up there, so how did we end up in that situation? I have also thought about this a great deal, perhaps because I have been sitting in the Chamber many times and trying to get this ceiling abolished. I think it was because the logics of the Ministry of Finance and the competition state were once and for all swallowed up in education policy. It must always go faster, it must always be choices that bind when you make the choice, and you must make the right choice for the first time, and you must choose what the labour market wants to choose for the benefit of what you choose. But the truth is that it has nothing to do with education, it has nothing to do with quality, it has nothing to do with education, it has nothing to do with lifelong learning, it has nothing to do with our educational tradition, because it is just about moving faster and faster, so you can get more and more labour market supply and save some money. The educational ceiling is, and remains, an education policy freak, and it is good that we are abolishing it now. Education for SF is about the opportunity to become smarter all your life, it's about having the opportunity to change tracks. I remember that when a majority adopted the education ceiling, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, on the same day out saying that one could take an education, and then it was just that, was an out-of-date thinking, because now one had to train oneself for the rest of one's life. And I think that's right. Politicians must create opportunities for people, not take opportunities away from them, politicians must give people freedom, do not restrict them and make them afraid to fail. The educational ceiling is an example of a law that made tomorrow worse than today, and today we are going back tomorrow and giving young people more opportunities. We are shutting down the education ceiling once and for all, and I am sure it will not come back. Congratulations to the many students who have opposed this, congratulations to the student and student movement, who has mobilised from the beginning and helped to create support for the first citizen's proposal ever in Denmark; congratulations to the many parents, grandparents, uncles and aunts, mothers and fathers who have been complaining about it here and have helped to give it a voice, even over in the bourgeois camp where it was adopted; and congratulations to the educational policy that is returning to a track of education, quality and freedom. SF is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122227	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122232	To begin with, I would just like to thank the rapporteur for a huge piece of work with us in the Enhedslisten, the student and student movement and many others for fighting against the educational ceiling. I asked for the floor because I wanted to highlight something that the rapporteur raised in his speech, and which I think is so right, namely that the arithmetic models have made their contribution to education policy, and this was so much an expression of the educational ceiling. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's reflections on whether it has not in fact been much, much more expensive, because there are so many young people who, just before they have finished, have dropped out and who have suffered so much from the pressure that it has meant that they have not been able to complete their education, so that it has derived consequences that we would never be able to figure out, and that education policy should therefore not be pursued according to such competitive and arithmetical parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122336	Yeah, that's right. Now I do not know the figures completely, but I remember them slightly so that the saving was about. 75 million kr. at less cost to su and to it, it costs to have students walking, and then the rest was on dynamic effects. This is also why I brought the Ministry of Finance into my speech. The starting point has been that there was some money to save here because you push young people through faster, which then gets into the labour market and helps to increase the supply of work. But I have asked several times: what about those who drop out, what about those who get sick, and what about those who mistrust? You can't count on them. So yes, I fully agree with Mrs Mai Villadsen that this should not be the starting point when it comes to education policy. The starting point must be to make people free and make people formed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122430	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122432	I fully agree, and that is why I am also proud that we are now jointly trying to settle a dispute with the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance, which has sneaked into all areas where we are making policy today, and that is really sad. I think there is a lot we must do in the future to ease the pressure on students. After all, there is still some delay in the progress reform. We will soon discuss admissions and grades, and there I look forward to working with SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122502	But I can only say that in the same way, because it has been a little fun to experience the fact that primary school pupils have felt pressured by the ceiling on education. Many have also said: How can that be? But I think it's about that fear of failing, and the educational ceiling had just become the symbol of that. But grades and speed, that one must constantly choose faster and faster, is also something that fills, and changing the recording system and the scale of character can be another way of reducing the pressure on young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122529	Well, then, sir. Uffe Elbæk asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122532	So, I really think this is an interesting debate, because we are discussing the training ceiling, but when I listen to the rapporteurs who have been up already, a much wider discussion on education policy is opened up. The rapporteur points to all the right things, i.e. the progress reform, the system of grades, training in relation to education, what is the focus on the individual young person, the individual pupil, or is it the labour market in 10 years' time? It is actually just such an indication that I think there is a new political majority and that there is a momentum right now to actually try to look at the education system with some brand-new glasses and it is simply also high time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122625	I fully agree, and I think that the alternative has also been like one of the banners of the shift since the alternative came into the Folketing. But I think it is a general movement, that is, that it should be more about education, about quality and about creativity than just pushing young people through quickly. The funny thing is, I think it is also a movement that I have seen in several of the bourgeois parties. I sat and wanted to say more Ahlers, less Ellemann, because Ahlers, as Minister of Education, really helped push this agenda like a rapporteur like Mrs Anni Matthiesen. So let us bring together all the good forces that want education policy to be about quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122700	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122701	The last comment is indeed important, because I agree that there should be some rapporteurs in the bourgeois block to build bridges. Now we heard the Danish People's Party, and I am in fact constantly in agreement with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, not only in this debate, but also in previous debates, when we have talked character system etc. In other words, there should be an opportunity to bridge the gap in this educational policy debate and not to do so party politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122732	I agree with that. I believe that one of the major debates in the future will be about how to ensure that education is something you do all your life. In fact, I believe that we work too much and train too little throughout our lives. How can one make a model that fundamentally changes it, so that the starting point is not to save on education, but to provide more education throughout your life? I think that will be a huge debate in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122754	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122757	Well, I would like to support this debate and discussion that we need to look at our education system with new eyes. I think it may sometimes be an advantage to come and see the world from the outside and in and not from the inside out, and that with the various competences we bring in, we can complement each other. However, in the time I have been a rapporteur for education, I have seen that this has just been the case. It's like there's a system missing from it. And I understand that the kids are confused, because you don't know which branch you're going on, and then you find out that sometimes it's sawn half over, sometimes it just stops there, and then the question is where you can actually go. So I think we should look at it with some completely different glasses, instead of turning somewhere and then somewhere else, that is, that we get a look at what kind of educational system we offer to young people; how we simplify it; how we make it easier for them to find their way. Because we actually have a very good education system in many ways, but it also needs a review so that it is easier and simpler for young people to think long-term too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122900-2	I think that is an interesting point, and I believe that basically, as an educational politician, education must open doors to people and give people freedom. That's why we have education. That was among other things. One of the reasons I was very much against this ceiling. In other words, when you make major educational policy changes, you usually give 3 years to make them, but here you made them over a summer, and you had not informed the counsellors that this would happen, so the counsellors sat at some educational institutions and advised the young people to finish their bachelor's degree, although they knew that this was not the training they wanted, so they were caught. This is a good example of how to make something more difficult for young people and close more doors. So the point is that if we can make an educational reform that allows education throughout our lives and that makes it more flexible across education, I would find it so exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124122946	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123002	Well, it sounds as if there could be a really good discussion and debate, where we can sit down together and look at this in a whole. We from the Conservatives would very much like to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123011	Well, I agree with that. There is also a tradition of broad training agreements, most recently on the licensing system. That is also why I would have liked to see a very, very broad majority in favour of abolishing the ceiling today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123018	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123032	Thank you for the floor. It really is a wonderful day to be a rapporteur for education, because it is fantastic to stand here in the gallery and to make a speech about the fact that we are finally abolishing the ceiling on education. In the Enhedslisten we have fought fiercely against the educational ceiling since it was introduced a grey, cold December day in 2016, but it is actually the student's victory, I think at least. It is the students who have kept pushing and shouting and saying to the Folketing that it is a miserable piece of legislation that has been introduced. They have stood outside in the rain and sleet year after year and demanded the abolition of the education ceiling. I can actually remember how I hung out of one of the windows up there to take a picture of them standing with pavilions, which together shaped the words: Drop the ceiling. They have waged an untiring battle. That is why the history of the education ceiling is also the history of political pressure working. This is the story that if a case is good enough and one yells loud and long, then you can convince almost all of the Socialists too. So I would like to thank the students. Your tireless struggle has led us to stand here where we stand today, and it is so extremely important. For the signal sent out by the educational ceiling was that there is no room to be mistaken in Denmark, that there is no room to choose whether or become wiser, and such signals should not just be sent to young people. I fully agree with what has been said in the past that it was also the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance that were pushed into an education system. One saw that one could save a few crowns, but did not look at the real consequences of the pressure that was put down over a whole generation of young people. So today is a day of celebration, but there is much more we need to do in the field of education policy, and there is enough to do. For over the last 20 years many educational policy accidents have been made, such as: the progress reform and training cuts, just to mention a few. There is no doubt that today we are easing the pressure on students, but we must do more. We need to reform the way we absorb, the way we give grades, the way we value education in Denmark. I look forward very much to participating in this, and I think this debate in the Parliamentary Assembly today shows that there is hope ahead and that perhaps the thinking of education is moving a tiny bit in Denmark. So I would like to thank the students. I look forward very much to pressing the button and abolishing the educational ceiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123343	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And this is Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123402	Thank you. Well, it is an interesting discussion we have, and I really like the fact that it has spread beyond that, that we are talking about an educational ceiling. We have looked at the education ceiling; we have been involved in voting for it, and it has to be said that it has just been addressed as a ceiling, as a limitation. But it is the dual education law, which means that you can not only train yourself side by side at the expense of the state. But you can go out and use your education, work on, and then you can get another education. And there are quite a lot of exceptions to that law on dual education. Nor have we been able to find figures on how many people are caught up, so we have actually said: okay, we can help to see if the education ceiling should be removed, but we need responsible funding. I think it is very important that we actually look at the fact that what we should be involved in is that we should look at our education system all the way through life, rather than looking at the 95% as we are now. of our resources, which lie in the established training programmes. We need to think new and we need to make the young people clear. There are 32 vocational academies and 101 vocational training courses, so the young people are confused about which way they should go. And that's why we don't think that the fact that you have to finish your bachelor is necessarily a really great pressure. It is actually good to finish your education and go out using it. But then you have to bear in mind that it is not a dead end; you can continue to train. What is also a pity about the proposal is that you let the champagne corks jump, but that is to say, it is not as if there is always something negative when you make a proposal. Several studies actually show that this will adversely affect employment by 1,200 people. And now we just have another proposal that will have a negative effect on employment. Of course, we are a little sad about that. What is the hops in this is: where is the money to come from? So we can say that we really wanted to vote for it, but we also said no to it in the Finance Act, because we are not just going to raise taxes to lift this. When it is fully phased in, it costs 370 million. kr. We will, for example: I would rather look at saving up to 4 billion. kr. In other words, to improve the efficiency of job centres and employment, find the money and then come up with a proposal. And then we can get it removed. So we have to vote no, because we think there is someone in here who really has to look at the fact that we just don't have money for it all... not if we want the big green transition, not if we want to educate ourselves all our lives, not if we want a healthy welfare for our old people, who are getting older. We have so many expenses, and we have such a high level of service. Sometimes we also have to bear in mind that the public sector not only provides a great service, but that it is also the kind of thing we share; something we take care of; something we are responsible for. So I think there is much more to it that we can also help young people to go the right way. Nor should they be afraid to stop, go out to work and get back into the education system. In fact, we have a very good education system and it is actually quite flexible. And with the flexibility package you also have the legal requirement today that you can take your bachelor's degree, go out to work and move on. So, unfortunately, we have to vote no, and we do so because we have not received any proposal that will mean that the money will fit. I even think we heard Mette Frederiksen say that she would use the inheritance tax to finance education. And that again has a negative impact on employment. But I look forward to talking about education and young people in a much broader context and looking at it in our education system so that we make it up to date and simpler and easier for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123755	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123757	Now I'm confused at a higher level. On the one hand, in my optics, there were some very good tactics in the debate just now. It wants to have an open discussion on education policy and ensure that it makes sense for young people and that it has the dynamism and flexibility that is needed. And now I cannot find out what the rapporteur is actually saying. My uncertainty is, do you vote no or do you vote yellow?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123854	We are voting 'no' and that is because of that funding. Let us say that there was a funding proposal for how this can be done. We will, for example: I want to look at employment in relation to these job centres. What we hear is that you want to raise the tax, you want to use the inheritance tax to finance it here too. And that's why we have to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123900	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123901	But then it can be said that Conservatives lie in the slipstream of the Left. Conservatives are all the more precise: they are actually voting against the bill. But I cannot hear whether it is a good idea to maintain the ceiling on education or whether it is only because of the funding. And if that's the last of it, the movie's gonna break for me. Because either you are against the education ceiling or you are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123938	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124123939	Not necessarily, because if you're making a proposal, it has to be funded. If you also heard Rasmus Jarlov's speech here when we had a budget debate, then you were also saying no, and that was exactly the same argument, that is to say that we have to say no, because we cannot allow it to be justified by the fact that we want to raise taxes because we have to lift it here on education. And we are not in favour of raising taxes to raise it for education. We think a job could be done to find the money somewhere else. That's why we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124008	Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124011	I think I'm just as confused as sir. Uffe Elbæk knows exactly what the Conservatives think, but let it be. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, who comes out of business and has a long experience of himself in this Parliament, whether it is not a natural part of young people's journey towards working life and to find their right shelf, that one chooses wrong, that one makes choices that turned out not to be the right ones. Does the rapporteur not recognise that it is part of being young and that the educational ceiling helped to limit young people in their ability to choose wrong, to become wiser along the way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124053	When you're young, you can't know very much. And when I had to choose my own education, we didn't have much information, so it was kind of: Well, the best possible is what can give me something. There's a lot I might have done differently today. Young people may have too much information, and they need to be tried out. But you have to say to the young people today: It is not a dead end to taking an education, and you can also drop out in your bachelor's degree • You can drop out 2 years in your education and change to something new. That is not the problem. The only thing you can't do is go straight ahead on an education at the same level or a lower level. Then you're going to work, and then you can get an education again. But you can go on training. And what I want to say is that of course you can change it, and it's hard to choose, but we have to make that system simpler and easier for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124150	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124151	But is not the abolition of the education ceiling precisely to make it easier and more transparent and to remove some of the gaps which it has proved to be leading to in the education system? That is why, of course, I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also has the concern expressed today by many other parties in the Assembly, namely that we have a generation of young people who feel very pressured to perform, to make the right choices, to be a success from day one. And if the rapporteur also has that concern, does the rapporteur not recognise that the abolition of the education ceiling is an important step on the way to easing just a little of the pressure for young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124224	I think it is possible to discuss the whole matter of being under pressure and having to perform whether it is different from what it was in the past. I just don't think we've talked about it that much. When I finished myself, we had a very, very high degree of gratitude, which was 10-15 per cent. There was real pressure; we knew there were no jobs, so there was a lot of pressure. There's always been. What is also a pressure today is a social pressure. These are other things that also give rise to pressure. We do not have a particular need to fight for an education ceiling, because we cannot quite see whether this is the battle that is worth fighting, so that it changes so much about everything. We can't see exactly how many people get stuck. We just want to say that there has to be a proposal on how to finance it without raising taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124308	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124310	Thank you for your speech and for an exciting dialogue so far. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not really know how many people will be affected by the education ceiling. At the same time, however, the rapporteur says that it weakens employment by approx. 1,200 people. It's obvious to think that the number and that's what Mr. Søren Pind is also previously confirmed as Minister of State, in a range between 900 people and 1,800 people who will be affected by this. It is just to say that there are actually quite a lot of people who are affected by the educational ceiling. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur so low-practical: why should a mathematician not be able to become a teacher when we need teachers? Why wouldn't a psychologist be able to become a social worker? Well, what's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124359	Recently we had a delegation inside our committee, so those who actually say that we can go out and use those who are experienced and get them as teachers. And so can you. Why don't you take those degrees later? And, of course, exceptions have also been made in those areas where there is a shortage of qualified staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124423	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124424	[Sound emission]... there are plenty of places where we lack labour and where exceptions have not been made • e.g. In relation to teachers. Then it is true that there is what is called Teach First, but it is seriously under pressure, so it is not certain that it will continue to be there. And why, when we need teachers, should a mathematician not be able to take a teacher's education and become a teacher for our children when there is a shortage of teachers? I simply do not understand that. But another question is: is this like the line for the Conservatives, that is, that the Conservatives do not want to be part of something financed by the Finance Act? Does this mean that we are opposed to strengthening the Climate Council, that we are opposed to police conciliation and strengthening the police force, because it is also financed by the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124501	This has been said because taxes had to be raised to finance it. We were even told by the Prime Minister that it was because you had to raise the inheritance tax. Why don't you go back to college? We just want to say that there is also something in that you get an education free of charge from the state; you get su. We have an enormously luxurious education system. Should we be able to continue to train and train? We just think that there is something in principle about going out and using your education and then working on. You can do that today, that is, as it is today. Then perhaps you can see if there are several places where some exceptions need to be made. And this is the whole discussion on how to get qualified people in, so that all those with high grades can also apply for teacher training. But it is a rather different discussion than the one about education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124546	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124124604	First of all, what several rapporteurs have said is a really, really wonderful day. It is a perfect day, that is, a perfect day for education policy. Why is that? It is because we are now discussing a bill which helps to abolish the education ceiling, and we, like a number of other parties in this Parliament, have been fiercely opposed to it from day one, both the specific bill at that time and the educational thinking behind it. Therefore, as some of the other rapporteurs have done, I must also give a huge thank-you to all the young people who have kept saying that this is completely wrong. There is almost such a little karma about it here, because the discussion about the education ceiling was in connection with the very first citizen's proposal that was put forward, and it is exactly two years ago today that this is the case on the 2nd anniversary. That is why there is praise for all the young people out there in student organisations, student organisations etc. So we fully support the bill. However, I would like to say a little more, because I think that what is interesting with the debate that has been so far is that it has become a little wider and that across the blocs, but also across the parties, there is a desire to discuss education policy with new glasses. It is simply also high time. In other words, I feel as if we have been in such an educational policy thinking or tunnel as has been far too one-dimensional and too narrow for the last ten or fifteen years. And that is why I see what is happening today as the first step in a series of initiatives that hopefully will allow us to set our educations much more free, so that we give freedom back to our educational institutions to find out how they can organise an educational programme that suits the students they work with, the local area they are part of, and the industry they represent. So, for God's sake, give educational institutions far more freedom than is the case per year. date of day. And let us get back to the fact that education starts and ends at the student, that is, that all the policy we adopt is based on whether we dress our students for the future that is on their way. There again, I think, there has been an overly, too narrow academic focus. So when we say that we need to have good education, you immediately think that it is education that trains our young people's heads, and so do they, but we also need to have educations that train the student's heart, said a little poetic, in other words, train the soft skills. And we also need some educational institutions that have a much more practical approach to it, so that we have a balance between head, heart and hand. These are some of the things I think are just below the surface when we talk about abolishing the education ceiling. So in every way, we think this is new tones. We think that we have a government that is puffed in the right direction by the support parties, but also that we have a minister who, according to what we have heard so far, really cares about the students, so the courses are for the students and not necessarily the first one for the labour market. Of course, there is a link to the labour market, that is, to people going out and having a job afterwards, but how the hell do we get our students ready to take care of their lives and find out if they're going to get a job or out and create a job? And are there all sorts of other intermediate forms? That is why I am sincerely so happy to hear the Conservative law that there is an openness to look at the education policy with new glasses, as is the Danish People's Party. And I am quite sure that for the Alternative, SF, Enhedslisten and Radicals there is an enormous desire and concern that we should have the very best degree programmes for the students and thus for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125044	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the alternative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125055	Thank you for the floor. New citizens support the bill. Education is important both for the individual and for society as a whole. It is important that people end up on their right shelf and have the opportunity to have a job that makes sense to them and creates value. Young people need to pass through the education system in a reasonable time. No one enjoys being an eternity student or wasting their time in an education that can't be used for anything. It is both a waste of their time and an unnecessary cost to society. It is beneficial and meaningful to enter the labour market, and I think that people in general are also experiencing this. I understand the intention to prevent double education, but in New Citizens we believe that the ceiling on education is too rigid. Although it is desirable for young people to choose the right education in the first place, and this is what most people do, there should be the possibility of choosing another education if it turns out that they have chosen the wrong course. It would be a shame to exclude skilled people from becoming good, satisfied and productive citizens because they have made the wrong educational choices at a young age. We must try to avoid people taking education that they can't use for anything. It can be regulated in other ways than through an education ceiling. There may be, for example: The number of places on individual courses is regulated, and this is already happening today. So new citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125213	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125222	Thank you for the floor. When I write my memoirs one day, the question of the educational ceiling is going to fill a lot. The intervention itself was educational policy pointless. There were very few people who trained in the way that was banned, and this is very clearly seen in the economy. We spend almost 9 billion. kr. At the end of the year, a total of 340 million ECU was allocated to university education and a grant of 340 million ECU was made. kr. It's change. But the procedure was made because it had a fiscal effect. The three major parties in the Folketing needed the money, and then the intervention was made. Nevertheless, the Left succeeded in portraying the educational ceiling as the end of the earth, as the worst violation of the competitive state logic ever seen by the world and as one of the main causes of distrust in higher education. Now the ceiling on education disappears, and it will not be felt because it did not affect almost anyone. The disappearance of the training ceiling will have no positive consequences for the simple reason that it had no negative consequences and in three months' time we have forgotten that the training ceiling ever existed. I don't really know what to call it. I've been looking over into film science for inspiration. Alfred Hitchcock had something he called a MacGuffin, and a MacGuffin was when one provoked some situation using a plot element which in itself was pointless, and I would like to give an example of that. If you remember the film Psycho, most people remember that it is two people who have a confrontation inside a scary house, Norman Bates and Sam. But how does Sam get into that creepy house? Nobody remembers that at all. It's because Sam's boyfriend committed a bank robbery, and everyone forgot until I remind them of it. This whole sequence where Janet Leigh's character is being murdered, Hitchcock called a MacGuffin. The educational ceiling was a political MacGuffin, but it worked as well for the left as Hitchcock's MacGuffin worked for Hitchcock. The training ceiling was the training policy for opponents, but the training ceiling was not the training policy for supporters, and that is what is interesting about the training ceiling, because it is such an asymmetrical conflict in the Folketing which is almost impossible to win. That is why I am, of course, extremely pleased that it will stop. I would not say that 340 million. kr. is cheap to avoid a pointless discussion, because it is still unreasonable to produce taxpayers' money in this way; I might feel tempted anyway, but I am not doing so. But we support the proposal and are pleased that this MacGuffin no longer exists. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125545	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125548	I think the rapporteur underestimates the importance of the education ceiling. I don't know, but I think so. I know the rapporteur as someone who goes to things very rationally, but sometimes politics and symbols are not rational. When you have been around primary and secondary schools, you can see that some of what has filled the most for them has been the ceiling on education. Then the rapporteur will say that it makes no sense, because it will never hit them, and I agree that it is not rational, but it is there. Because I think it stood as a symbol of what young people feel, that is, there is no room to fail, that one must always choose correctly for the first time. That is why I believe that the rapporteur is wrong when he thinks that it will have no effect on young people. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125644	Well, it's Friday, and sir. Jacob Mark has known me for many years as an exceptionally good company. So I suggest we see each other in about a year's time, and if that's what I'm saying, I'm going to buy Mr. Jacob Mark, and if that's what Mr. Jacob Mark says he's gonna buy me a beer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125704	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125705	I think we should call that a deal. Then I would really like to spend the last 30 seconds reading my favourite quote in this whole debate ever, because I have been in it from the beginning, and that is as follows: I have two master's degrees, and I have them in two subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with each other, namely cinema and sociology. For some periods I have lived on one and for some periods I have lived on the other degree, and it is probably mostly the last one I have lived on. But no matter how and how I wouldn't be who I am if I didn't have both of them, and it has been of incredibly great benefit to me both as a person and to the state in terms of tax payments. Who told you that? It's my favorite quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125748	Since I used a film-scientific example in my rapporteur's speech, one can almost figure out that it is me, and I stand by that as well. It has not been a secret, because I have said in public that I personally do not think that the educational ceiling was a good idea, but that we were greasy into it when some agreements were made at the time of the transformation of the government in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125810	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That concludes the rapporteur's report, and we will conclude with the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124125824	Thank you. The former rapporteur called it a perfect day. Others have said it is a great victory, and others again say that this is a sign of something bigger, a new way of thinking about education policy. At the same time, it is also my first draft law as Minister ever, and it is the first draft law from this government in the field of education. And what better reason to signal to all our young people that there must be room to choose wrong, to make mistakes, to turn around and go a new way. That is what politicians have to do for us. This must also be the case for young people in their educational choices. This has contributed to a sense of not being allowed to fail. I think it's surprising a lot of people this is gonna end up affecting. But the fact is that it is many, many young people that I have been talking to in recent months too, who mention this as what they are taking down, as the signal from political teams that you must not fail. You can discuss this here as the narrow part, it is which in the large picture will hit a limited number of young people. You can also take a step back and say that it potentially affects the 90,000 young people who have to choose education this summer. I think it's the last thing at stake. And then we are in the middle of a wider discussion of what our young people are really doing in terms of their educational choices. What are the currents of their way of learning, their way of being young people, their way of going to education? I have a growing concern about the feeling of not having to make mistakes and about what the effect is on so many other things in the way they educate themselves. Because we need young people in this country who dare to take risks, who dare to risk their fur, and who go to their education as something that actually has to be grown all the way down to the depths and right up to the heights where you can challenge it, but for everything in the world it must not be a question of going to the curriculum as something you have to memorize in order to be able to say it for the exam. We also need young people who, when they get out on the other side of their education, get into our companies with innovation, zeal and courage to say their opinion. But most recently, when I had a meeting with a number of companies in this country, several of them said that they are increasingly getting young people out, who hardly dare to raise their hands and bid, and when they do, they start by saying: Now I don't know if that's right, but... The innovation power, the courage to actually venture, the willingness to learn its profession, both on the overall educational spectrum, but also in terms of being able to reflect on what is written and to be able to bid in with its own opinions it has a gigantic value for a society. And we're lucky to have them. There are many other places in the world where you do not have them to the same extent. Our innovation centres around the world tell me that some of what they export is precisely that they can create cooperation agreements between universities in Denmark and companies in Germany, where we bring down students who say: This is the solution to your problem. This is something that we hear from German companies at least is not applicable to German universities to the same extent. We get messages from lecturers at higher education, who say that in the subjects where you need the very highest cut to get in, they really need to spend a very long time teaching the students • those who should be the cream of Denmark's youth • the way they learn, because that way has primarily had a purpose for the exam, where you should perform and get a high grade. The way to learn is the opposite of what it would like to be like in our higher education courses, namely an exercise in reflecting, being formed and being trained to form its own opinion. The educational ceiling has contributed to the flow, to the pressure, to the feeling of not having to venture the fur, but having to walk on the safe path. There is something bigger at stake, and that is why it is a perfect day for education policy. And it is a huge victory. It is not least for the many students who have called out about this; who have politically gone to us, also to my own party, that now we had to learn from our mistakes. I say today that we must have the political courage to do so and send out the clearest signal I can at all to our young people that they can do so too. There's gotta be room for that in this country. This is a bill that is part of a major financial law that has a different way of going to education policy, and I look forward to the rest being unfolded. I look forward to discussing this further, and I look forward to seeing a new year in our higher education free of this ceiling this summer. Thank you very much to the students who have fought the case and to the political forces, many of you sitting in this Chamber today, who have put political blood, sweat and tears in this fight. I look forward to it being adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124130437	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200124130454	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 28 January 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
