ParlaMint-DK_20200204130014	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on State aid for education (su) to be reserved for Danish nationals). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving parents the power to postpone their child's school start by one year), motion for a resolution No. Β 83 (Proposal for a decision to allow parents to decide for themselves whether their child should start in kindergarten before the child reaches the age of 3), motion for a resolution No. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of the subsidy for free schools based on Islamic values), motion for a resolution No. Β 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark) and motion for a resolution No. B 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expulsion of criminal foreigners after the first judgment). Søren Espersen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equality between all parts of the Community in the field of military service). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on claims for the use by insurance companies of medical certificates in personal injury cases). Mads Fuglede (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Marcus Knuth (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 39 (Will the Prime Minister explain the work of setting up a reception centre for asylum seekers outside Europe, including what the Prime Minister, who promised in his opening speech himself to lead the work of a new asylum system, has done in concrete terms to deliver on the promise of a reception centre outside Europe, and what the government has done and will do in relation to the announced Danish one-off to deliver on the promise of a reception centre outside Europe?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130159	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130230	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal and a vote can be taken. It was about V 55, and the vote is over. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 55 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130403	I need to know if anyone wants to speak. Since no one wishes to speak, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130414	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, which has been elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF, NB and LA). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 49 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130524	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130530	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130557	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130601	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130637	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204130653	Thank you for the floor, President. With the motion for a resolution we are debating today, the Liberal Alliance will reduce the daily allowance rate for graduates by DKK 5.154. a month, from DKr 13,644. DKK 8,490. of the highest rate of benefit for non-parents at 45%. First of all, I would like to stress that it is not the government's view that the daily allowance rate for graduates should be cut. The daily allowance system is a central cornerstone of the Danish flexicurity model. This provides flexibility for companies that can quickly adapt to new markets and new times, and safety for workers if they lose their jobs, so the government is concerned that we have an unemployment benefit system that is financially secure and has broad public support. Nor is cutting the daily allowances in which the Liberal Alliance and the CEPOS are travellers, as proposed by the employees or employers. Thus, the Employment Council did not mention a word about this when they sent out their bids for what can be done at the level of graduating. The Liberal Alliance itself refers to the Daily Allowance Commission in its comments on the motion for a resolution, and it makes sense to address the work of the Commission and recommendations on graduates in the benefit system, but the Liberal Alliance alone refers to carefully selected parts of the Commission's report. The benefit commission rightly states in their report that there is evidence that young people react more strongly than others to financial incentives and that a rise in income on transition to graduation benefit can prevent their incentive to be comfortable in geographical and professional terms when seeking work. A key point in the report, however, is that a balance needs to be struck between different considerations. Thus, the benefit commission also writes in their report that the dimittend scheme is a food chain to the unemployment insurance system that ensures that it is attractive for people in training to insure against unemployment. The Commission also points out that graduates are a resourceful group that belongs to the labour market. And: The alternative to the graduating scheme is, however, that part of the graduates enter the cash benefits system instead, where they do not belong. In this way, the newly trained people receive cash benefits because they belong to the labour market. At the same time, the Commission concludes: unemployment is often a short-term and temporary problem for graduates when they enter the labour market and they subsequently contribute to the insurance system. Against this background, the benefit commission comes with the balanced recommendation that the rate for graduates should be made slightly less favourable and reduced from the then 82 per cent. of the maximum daily subsistence allowance at 78%. I believe that, politically, with the agreement on a safer benefit system, we have struck the right balance between the various considerations underlying the graduating rate. With the agreement we entered into an agreement in the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Danish People's Party, in which we have chosen to distinguish between parents and non-parents, and we decided that the graduation rate for non-parents should be reduced from 82%. 71.5 per cent. of the maximum daily allowance rate. This is an agreement which the government continues to support and which, moreover, the Liberal Alliance itself signed with their government participation in the last parliamentary term. Having said that, I would like to stress that I do not share the view of the Liberal Alliance that newly-educated people are driving it off and keeping half-sabbath years on daily allowances. I am convinced that the vast majority of graduates are working to get started using everything they have learned from education and earning their own money, for example. is able to move from the room that they have rented during study to an apartment. Life as unemployed is hardly the dream scenario for young people after completing their education. And once the student friends start getting into a job and earning their own money, it's not fun to sit back on graduation money. Daily allowance allows newly trained people to search for jobs that match their skills. A good start to working life is both important for the individual and for society in the longer term. Having said that, I am also of the opinion that graduates should not go and wait for the dream job... that is not the purpose of the graduation allowance. Newly educated people need to get started quickly and gain some experience, and this must be supported by the employment system; right and duty indeed apply to graduates. This means that after completing education, young people must search widely, both in terms of type of job and in terms of geography. Like everyone else, they must actively seek all reasonable work that they can do, including unskilled jobs and jobs outside one's professional area. Graduates with medium- and long-term higher education must at the same time take jobs throughout the country without taking into account daily transport time, if necessary in order to fill jobs with skilled labour. However, due account shall be taken of family circumstances. And, of course, the cashiers must follow up on the fact that young people are actually available. If they don't, it's got to have consequences. It is also not an end in itself to get graduates in jobs completely outside their field. There must be room for looking for the right job, but if the job is not there, we are doing the young people a disservice by letting them go for a long time without getting started on the labour market. There is no doubt that this is a difficult balance and that there are many differences of opinion on it. For the government, it is crucial that we create the best framework for the early entry of graduates into the labour market. In my view, it is paradoxical that right now we are in a situation where many companies demand skilled labour while so many graduates are on graduation allowance. We can and must do better. I am concerned that we support that job centres and a-boxes create an earlier and closer contact with companies and meaningfully help young people translate how their skills match the needs of companies. Therefore, the conciliation circle behind the employment reform in the autumn extended the training scheme by 12 million. kr. in 2020, so that more unemployed graduates can get help to get out to work. But we cannot only lift it in the employment system. That is why I also cooperate with the Minister for Education and Research when it comes to combating graduation. Young people are our future, and that is why the government is very concerned that we are taking advantage of the good times to get more graduates into the labour market more quickly. However, the government does not believe that the solution is to cut unemployment benefits to graduates and risk young people completely opting out of the benefit system. There are basically two ways to solve the challenge of graduating: whip or effort. I believe that we can help graduates more intelligently than we can by lowering the daily allowance rate for graduates. As I said, I do not hear that employers are asking for the graduation rate to be cut. I have noted here that Danish Industry has stated in the past that unemployment benefits should not be cut, as this may have consequences for labour market flexibility. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. We cannot vote in favour of a proposal which, in this way, weakens our benefit system and which, in the end, can weaken the flexibility of the Danish labour market. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131432	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131444	Thank you. Now the Minister says that there is a choice between the whip and the effort, but it has to be said that it is not the healthy incentives and the personal effort that the Minister is aiming for; it is the whip; it is the right and the duty of thought. It is the social democratic thinking that you have high benefits: it is not worth taking a low-paid job while on unemployment benefits, in return you must be whipped around a bit because you have the right and the duty to do so. This has been the case for many years for benefit recipients, including graduates, and the fact that we have the whip has not solved the problem. Then the Minister is talking about right and duty, and we have been doing so for three months now, but it has not got a single graduating at work. It is known from calculations from the benefit commission that it will get 6,000 out of the approx. 20,000 unemployed academics in jobs • possibly in Netto, possibly in some of the type of job that the Minister himself calls for you to accept, even if you are on unemployment benefit after completing training. This opportunity is now available by voting in favour of this, so you get 6,000 out of the 20,000 jobs by changing the healthy incentives completely without using the whip. Wouldn't that be a sensible way to get rid of graduation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131557	No. As I clearly stated in my rapporteur's speech, I do not think this is a sensible way of doing so, because it does not strike the crucial balance which the Commission on Social Security, like Mr. Alex Vanopslagh himself keeps referring to ends up recommending. It is, of course, to ensure that there is also a food chain in the benefit system, and that is an advantage for the individual in the long run, but it is also an advantage for the whole of our social model and for the very same companies that benefit from the flexibility that comes from the fact that we have a strong flexicurity system. In addition, I think it is also part of this debate to say that I think we can and must do better than that, because some graduates may take longer to get a firm foothold in the labour market. However, once they have a firm foothold in the labour market, they have a closer link with the labour market throughout their working life than so many other groups. And that should count in the equation that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh lays the foundations for his proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131656	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131658	So let us say that we ask the good officials of the Minister to count on the consequences by implementing the Liberal Alliance's proposal to lower the rate of graduating slightly so that you do not double your income by going from being a student to being unemployed, but only experience a small increase of 50%. by going from being a student to being unemployed so that we are counting on the consequences of it, and it turns out that it will not very much reduce the proportion of students joining an unemployment insurance fund will the government support it, or will you just come up with a new argument not to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131732	In the government, we always listen to all the arguments that come out in any debate, but the position of the government is quite clear, I think, namely that we are on the goal of what we agreed back in 2015 in the agreement on a safer benefit system, and that we also think that we have found the right balance between encouraging people to join an unemployment insurance fund on the one hand and ensuring that companies have the necessary flexibility as part of our flexibility system and, on the other hand, ensuring that the groups of employees who will have to enter the labour market after training have been completed. And again, I think it is worth holding on to the fact that, although it takes a little longer for some groups with long education to get a firm foothold, we are in a situation in Denmark where we have a much higher participation rate and a much closer link with the labour market for all groups compared to virtually all comparable societies around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131828	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131830	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to say that when we talk about graduates, we believe that they should of course be available for the labour market. And, of course, an effort must also be made to get them to work. We can also agree on that and that is the attempt we have made with the cashiers that they should also help graduates to get to work for the first six months. The same applies to the 'A' boxes which are not included in the experimental scheme, which are also allowed to make an effort during the first six months. It is also in the agreement on the simplification effort that the municipalities must make an effort to provide unemployed people with jobs. We can also agree on that. But then I just have one question, because when I look at what they write at Altinget.dk about the labour market, I see that they write that the Minister has removed the objective of the job centres that they should help find qualified labour for companies. The Danish Employers' Association does not understand this, so why the objective has been removed for the job centres that the job centres should not be measured by whether they help to provide qualified workers for the companies. Can the Minister explain that? Is it a mistake that it says here, or is it the case that the Minister does not think that the job centres should be measured by whether they can help provide qualified labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204131952	I would say that it is in any case a very strong misinterpretation by the Danish Employers' Association of the objectives, what can be said, which we have now sent in consultation, and it has only been sent in consultation with the Employment Council. What I have written very clearly in the letter to the Employment Council is that, as I see the objectives I have given to the Employment Council and have sent to a hearing, they must all be the funnel that leads to companies getting the necessary and qualified labour. I am very willing to listen to whether this should continue to be an independent objective. As far as I am concerned, it is certain in itself that when we say that we have a goal that more people with a non-western background are going to work and that when we say that more people with a physical disability are going to enter the labour market, it also leads to that. And then I added a new objective, which I at least think is also important, and that is that we have a common goal among all partners in the Employment Council that more of our unemployed and sick fellow citizens should experience better and more dignified treatment in the meeting with the system. There I think we have a common obligation when we can constantly hear about all the cases in the media where people are asked, for example, whether they are able to wipe their backs and everything else. What is meant by these objectives is certainly not that firms should not have the necessary and qualified labour ■ on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132110	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132111	Now I do not think that the Danish Employers' Association is thinking of new employees who are sick; they are thinking of skilled workers who are ready to enter the labour market 100%. And there are a lot of these graduates who are, of course, since they have taken a high education. There are also job centres responsible for helping companies by saying: you need some manpower, we have some available graduates... shall we not see if we can match you? It's not like you remove it from the job centres, is it? Otherwise, at least it is something that the Danish Employers' Association misunderstood and I misunderstood because it was a clear agreement in the context of the simplification effort that the job centres had the task of helping to provide labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132155-2	There is clearly something that has been misunderstood in this matter, understood in the sense that the objectives that I have put forward in consultation with the Employment Council are about the Employment Council helping to guide me as a minister, but also, for that matter, the municipalities in how we achieve those objectives. Nothing is going to pull the curtain away under the things that have been agreed in connection with the renewal of the LAB law, and there is nothing at all that stands in the way of or prevents you from doing what you can in the job centres to match the unemployed to better jobs on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132232	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132236	Thank you for that, President. When we had the Minister in consultation on this subject, i.e. the number of unemployed graduates, the Minister withdrew a rabbit from the hat and a partnership. We couldn't know with whom, we couldn't know how, about what or when. As the Minister is under pressure during the consultation, the Minister is told that it is on the way through the government's Coordination Committee. Couldn't the Minister just give a status today on what the government's top coordinating committee said to that? So when do we get anything concrete to see here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132318	In a very short space of time, an briefing will be sent to Mr. Morten Dahlin on the development of these partnerships. In the meantime, however, I have noted that a large number of players, particularly among some of the cashiers and trade unions, who represent many of those who unfortunately have a rather too high degree of gratitude, will participate in these partnerships.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132338	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132341	I think that was exactly the same answer we received at the conciliation meeting: soon. So now it's been a while, and then we'll see how long it takes this time. Should partnerships lead to concrete recommendations in relation to amended legislation? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132400	In other words, if the partnerships may propose concrete initiatives which will also lead to legislative changes, then we in the government will clearly listen, just as I assume that the rest of the Folketing will be very careful about that. After all, the whole idea of partnerships is to bring together the actors in the field of employment with those in the education sector, and also those who represent some of the groups that have an excessively high degree of competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132428	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132442	Thank you for that, President. I do not think it surprises many when, as a Socialist, I really want a strong benefit system with the broad support of as many people as possible. The more people who support that system, the more strengthened is the flexicurity system and the stronger is our country. One can just look at previous statements by Danish Industry, which believe that we should not touch the daily allowance any more, as everything else can mean more termination agreements and thus make it more difficult for companies to develop and create jobs, as is unfortunately seen in many other countries. It is a benefit system which has in many ways helped to make our country rich and preserve the society we know so well and which we love. We must not destroy this, and that is why I do not think we should cut the daily allowance further, not even for graduates. I certainly recognise that there are many highly educated people who find it difficult to find a job at the beginning of their working life and that today too many are unemployed, and that is deeply unhappy. I have talked to many of the young people that we are talking about today, who earnestly want a job and to come out and make money and show what they can do. That's what they've been training for for many years. In fact, they are also very concerned that they can't find the dream job, so I don't buy it because they drive it off and don't want to get to work. Therefore, our task is not to degrade the benefit system, so some may opt out, but to help these young people in jobs. They must, of course, be available, like everyone else, and there are now stricter requirements for them, in relation to how far they should go. In fact, I also believe that they should take the jobs that are, although it is not exactly the dream job, as I am not a second in doubt that it is better for them to get out among others and make a difference, and then the job they want will probably show up at a later stage. I clearly believe that we need this group of young people among our companies, perhaps much more than in the past. Our job as politicians is to get companies to understand this and make the right job match. I have talked to many companies that have just taken in an academic and have found out that the employee is helping to develop and strengthen the company. We must spread this message to more companies throughout the country and preferably outside the cities where it is also needed. That is why we need to support various academic schemes that are struggling to spread this knowledge and to support the opportunities for the unemployed academics to come into contact with these companies. After all, I am pleased that the Minister will start work and listen to all the parties out there who know the right solutions. So with these words, I do not think it is the right solution to cut the rate, but instead to make an extra effort to get more academics into business, and that is why the Social Democrats are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132730	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132734	Thank you. I noticed that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said that he does not believe that there are too many unemployed academics who are too fine to take specific jobs, that they are, as it were, going and losing it. So, let's take the controversy and rhetoric aside, because of course you can disagree with it and look at the substance, that is, the question: are there too many unemployed academics who say no to certain jobs that are available, because they do not think that it is worthwhile, as they have gone from being on su and then almost tripled their income by being on cash benefits? Well, now I've just done a quick google search before today's debate, and it comes out with examples of academics on unemployment benefits who themselves stand out and say they won't take certain types of jobs. In Berlingske on 31 October it was an Emil Lundbo from RUC who studied global studies and who said he would not work in IKEA in a job he had been offered because it was night work, so he did not want to. In Information one could read about Heinrich, who said that academics should of course not take a job in Netto. It's better they're on cash benefits and spend their time looking for a job. The chairman of the Akademikernes A-kasse, Lars Qvistgaard, has been out saying the same thing: that you should not take a job if it is in Netto. And the list goes on. Unfortunately, I have no more speaking time. I have an example here from Politiken, where there is someone who says, of course, that you should not just take any job. So I would just like to hear: can the Socialist rapporteur not just acknowledge that when you have so generously provided a benefit system that doubles the income of people who go from being students to being unemployed, then of course it has the consequence that they are too fine to say yes to certain types of jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132903	Now the rapporteur is going to google, and then the rapporteur can google on and see what I have said countless times in this area. We have strict availability rules in this country, and there's nothing to raffle about, of course they have to. I have also met many young people who have actually done so, and I have also met many young people who have not done so, and the young people who have taken a job and have come out every day have a clear advantage when they are looking for jobs, because they are much further ahead than the other people who are still burning away. That's why it's super good. I just don't think the solution is to cut the graduation rate. I mean, the solution is to make sure they get a job, because I actually think they're needed out there. And that is why it could also suit the previous government to come up with solutions in this area. That is not what has been done, and that is why I firmly believe that we must take the lead in finding the right solutions. And that is what the Minister is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132955	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204132957	No, it's not. So, you talk about right and duty and about taking a job, and then you describe what the system is already today, but it is a system that has not solved the challenge of unemployed academics who are too fine to take certain types of work. But then you will not follow our solution for any reason. Now I know that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has a background as a port worker. I have a great deal of respect for this, and I would really just like to ask the question of such reasonableness in that let us say the brewery worker Arne or the carpenter Lars or the port worker Leif must pay one of the world's highest taxes for people who have read spatial designs and society and visual arts and European ethnology to mention some of the courses with the highest degree of graduating skills. Is that fair to people who go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133040	Let me tell you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh something that I don't think Mr. Alex Vanopslagh knows. Many of those people I have actually worked with for half a lifetime. They are actually okay with the fact that they work and pay taxes so that others can get an education for free and for others to get su if the educated people at the same time think it's okay that they can retire earlier because they are worn out then they think it's fair. But many others think so, among other things. the rapporteur, not. So yes, there is reasonableness in it and I myself, as a young person, have helped to work and pay taxes to these people if those people who have of course had a long education also help to give people who are worn out a previous retirement. That's fair, and that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133120	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133136	Thank you. Today we are discussing the motion for a resolution B-44. And I would like to start by commending the Liberal Alliance, not so much for the specific resolution, but more to highlight an important issue that we in the Left have also tried to raise a little attention on ourselves, namely how to get more young people to take a foothold in the labour market, with a particular focus on newly educated academics. Because here we have a pretty big problem. If we look at developments, we just have to note that from 2008 to 2018, the number of unemployed graduates has increased from just about 6,000 to over 20,500. This means that, compared to the years of the thundering financial crisis today, we have more than three times as many unemployed graduates, and these are mainly unemployed academics. It is therefore worth noting in a hot labour market, where employment is still historically high, even though the government's eager efforts are beginning to slow down a little. And that is why I think it is important to make it clear that in the Left's optics there is no doubt: this is a major problem. And, of course, it is first and foremost for the many young people who come out of their education full of courage and joy and then have to start their careers on cash benefits. It is not sustainable for them, and I think we should do everything we can in here at Christiansborg to help them become part of the largest and perhaps the most important community we have in Denmark: the working community. And then it is a healthy principle that if you can work, you have to work, and that principle does not change because you have a Master's degree from a university. And although I think most of us can agree that it is worst for those who do not have a job, we must also note that, unfortunately, all of us are also affected by the fact that there are too many unemployed graduates. Because expenditure has increased quite significantly. In 2008, we spent about 1 billion. kr. for benefits for unemployed graduates. Now we're spending almost 3.5 billion. kr. In the Left, we support our unemployment benefit system, it provides financial security, and it is an invaluable part of the Danish labour market. However, it is worrying when we are talking about 3.5 billion. kr., we could have spent on anything else: more nurses, better cancer treatment, higher quality in the education system. We could have hired more educators or more police officers, we could have lowered the tax on those who actually get up in the morning and go to work, or we could have spent the money on the climate and the green transition. But no, we now spend it on unemployment benefits for unemployed graduates; those who have already received the most expensive courses and mostly in su. We could do that a little better, which is why we are also concerned that the government's only answer to this problem is a partnership. We are also concerned, as I was able to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because the new employment targets that have been announced are no longer an objective for the provision of skilled labour. The aim of reducing the proportion of people on public support has also been removed. That's a shame. And we have a little difficulty in seeing how the two objectives that are being removed and a partnership are going to solve the problem of, for example, 30% from the health of the RUC ends in gratitude. But it may not be that important to the government. It's more important to just talk about it all instead of doing something. In relation to the specific proposal from the Liberal Alliance, we cannot support that particular proposal. And that's because we've got a little bit of pressure, and it may be that it's naive that we can push the government, that together we can get the government to be a little bit more ambitious in this area. It could, for example, be done. It is a question of modernising the dimensioning so that fewer people train directly to the unemployment queue. It could be about ensuring that both job centres and a-boxes motivate the unemployed to seek broader both professionally and geographically. It is not enough to say that you have to take a job in Netto or Bilka; we may also have to do something to ensure that people actually do it. And then it could be quite low-practical to find out what is actually in this partnership, which has been coming for a long time. So in the left we stand ready in the booth like a fresh racehorse just waiting to get out on the field. We want to solve these problems, but does the government really want to solve them? We're still waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133634	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133640	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin for an excellent rapporteur speech. It is just before I want to borrow it, because there was one argument to vote in favour of our resolution and no one to vote against it. But I understand that there is such a naive hope that the government will suddenly pull on the work clothes in this area and do something about it. I just need to be sure to understand the position of the Left: does that mean that if the government does not resolve this problem, it will be more in favour of our proposal? That's one. The second question will be: why wait for a foot-timing government when we can resolve it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133715	Well, I may be naive, and it may be because I'm new at Christiansborg. After all, there is nothing in the employment minister's approach so far to make me optimistic about his desire to strengthen employment. However, I am convinced that as a Socialist we can see a problem in the fact that we are now spending 3.5 billion. kr. to pay the daily allowance to unemployed graduates when they could spend that money on so many other things: strengthen core welfare, increase the quality of the education sector, push on the green transition. That is why I am so optimistic about it that I am convinced that we can get together broadly across the middle, together with the Minister for Employment, to solve some of these challenges. That's also why I chose to ask the Minister of Employment for this partnership before, and with all the expectations that the Minister has spoken up for this partnership, we can look forward as young children to Christmas Eve to see that partnership and I will do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133814	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh apostates. Then we'll move on to the next one, and that's Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133821	Thank you for that, President. Well, it may be worrying to hear the rapporteur of the Left in this regard, because we now have an agreement in the field of unemployment benefits, which the Left was in charge of at the time with Mr Tugendhat. Claus Hjort Frederiksen as Minister. Before the last election here, it was sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, who was Minister for Employment, and I might well miss the fact that Mr. Morten Dahlin had been in here at the time, for it is different tones that are now than there were under the former Left-led government, which in this connection was the VLAK government with the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. At that time, of course, agreements were also made on how to ensure that people get to work. Is that the case, sir? Morten Dahlin believes that we should simply abolish the graduation rate and not take into account the agreements that the Left itself has been involved in, but just say that the graduations are something that needs to be changed here and now? The current Socialist Government has no solution to that, but neither did the former Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204133948	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted for the question. I can answer that clearly no. We are, of course, on the goal of the agreements we have made. That is also why we went to negotiations to extend the training scheme, which has been the focus of the past and which has always been a heartchild for the Left and which we believe is part of the solution to this. Fortunately, this was included in the joint agreement, as the Minister also pointed out. We are pleased about that, and we are proud of that in the Left. We are voting against this motion for a resolution and, if it was not made clear, I am sorry to hear that. Bent Bøgsted. And, of course, we in the Left are always on the target of the agreements we have made. However, I would like to stress that we would have much preferred to have seen the fall in graduation rather than the rise in graduation, because then we could spend money on a lot of good things. And I am sure that the Left and the Danish People's Party could come up with a lot of creative ideas where you could spend all this lovely money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134048	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134050	Well, we can quickly agree that we would all like to see the graduation fall, but we need to have quite a few of the arrangements that we have jointly helped to make to work. There are a number of things that have come into force here per year. January 1. But I assume that the Left, like the Danish People's Party, is watching the action of the cashiers against the unemployed. Now the Magistrenes A-box is part of the current experimental system, but it is also clear that others, for example. The academy's A-box, can make the same effort to help the unemployed to enter the labour market. We must then keep an eye on whether they make that effort. If they do not make the effort, we will have another situation in which we will have to look at graduation differently. I guess we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134132	Well, we are in complete agreement on that. I fully agree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted in that now that you have made the experimental scheme, we must of course keep a close eye on whether it works. I also believe that the cashiers have a great interest in making it work, because now they have some of the things they have asked for, namely to be allowed to work in the areas. And then I hope they make a good effort to make it you. There are also a lot of other things we need to keep an eye on, for example. the dimensioning agreement that was made, which is only going to start properly in a few minutes, because it takes a few years to get through an education. We are also watching there, and we are very happy to do so together with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134212	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134215	Now, of course, the rapporteur is asking what the government wants. It's quite natural. However, the rapporteur is now in the chair for the Left and I would therefore like to hear what the Left is proposing in order to get more graduates going. I would really like to hear what the Left thinks about it, because when the Left was in government, they did practically nothing. The only thing they did was to extend the training scheme introduced by the SF when they were in government. Now the rapporteur says that the Left stands as a fresh racehorse, but when you were in government, was you a tired old troopster who had trouble getting into races or what? Because nothing happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134252	Here we have an example of some of what I think extremely many Danes who look at politics from outside are really tired of. I go to the platform and say that we are ready, that we are happy, that we want to see what is in the partnership, that we are in it and that you just have to call us and then we show up. Immediately, a Social Democratic rapporteur appears as a troll of a box and says: You were not good enough when you were in government, you were too stupid, you were too bad. I think that is a little too bad, really. I think it is a little polemical when I stand here and say that we want to work with the government to find solutions. But some of what we in the Left think one should look at whether we have struck the right balance within, is when one can see that newly educated academics in the City of Copenhagen are on average looking for jobs 38 minutes away. Is that good enough, or can we do something, so that the a-boxes and the job centres motivate them to seek wider geographical scope? This is one of the elements we should be able to look at, because I do not think that 38 minutes away from Copenhagen sounds insanely ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134358	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134400	Well, what I'm trying to do is sort of just find out if the Left really has any politics in this area. If a rapporteur stands up and is rapporteur for a party, then it is reasonable to expect it without the rapporteur being a little pissed off and thinking it is too much. I think it is important that people who are out there listening to this have a feeling that the Left means something. What would the Left like in this area? Because you didn't set goals when you were in government. I think it's nice that the Left would like something. Surely we welcome that, but it would be nice to hear from the platform, including the voters out there, whether it is just something the Left says or whether they have a position, whether they have a policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134437	I'm definitely not half mad. I think the only person who's gotten the blood pressure up is Mr. Kim. Leif Lahn Jensen. I think it is fantastic to stand here and discuss politics, and yes, the Left has a lot of politics. One of the things I think we should look at, for example, is whether it is okay when unemployed academics in Copenhagen on average seek jobs 38 minutes away. Perhaps we could adjust and see if this could not be resolved, and I would hope that the Social Democrats would like to take part in this. We're just waiting to be summoned to talk about it, and then we'll show up. And we will. I promise, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen smile and be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134511	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204134521	Thank you for that, President. I think it makes sense for us to have a discussion with this motion for a resolution on graduation, because we simply have too many unemployed graduates. In the Danish People's Party we have a clear position that when you are available, you must of course take the job that is available, and it does not exactly have to be in the subject in which you now have an education. You can take anything else. I've tried that myself. If you cannot get a job in the field you are trained in, then of course you take another one until you can find one within the education you have. It should also be borne in mind, as a newly trained person, that if you take a job, it shows to employers that you are ready to work; you have not just taken an education to do nothing. And you can easily look for a new job, even if you have taken another job in the meantime. It only gives some experience, and it shows a willingness to take a job. In this respect, of course, we have also taken certain steps. We have among other things. a pilot scheme with the cashiers, where the cashiers make an effort against the unemployed during the first few months, and this also applies to the unemployed. Among other things: is Magistrenes A-kasse included in the trial scheme, but all A-kasses should make an effort against the unemployed by matching them to available jobs in companies. The job centres can do that too, or they must do so, and so must the cashiers. Therefore, it is quite misleading if anyone says that they will take a sabbath year on cash benefits. That's not what the benefits were invented for. That's not what the graduation movement was invented for either. It is invented for you to have a benefit until you find a job, and of course you are looking for the jobs that are possible to get. We can quickly agree on that, so there is nothing there. As such, of course, we have something to look at, as has been said. That is what the Minister said about setting up a commission to look at benefits. It is also quite fine, but you don't have to wait that long before you get a look at the problems that exist. If the effort that lies in the agreement on the cashiers and the agreement on the simplification effort in the job centres cannot be matched by what it has to do, then we can go in and look at what we can do with action, and if it does not help, we will have to come up with other measures. There are some measures that I think we should at least look at. We do not think it is fair that out of the graduation that was left in 2018, it was approx. 19% foreigners who went to graduation, and that's not fair. In other words, if you have taken an education, you must, in our opinion, go home to the country where you come from, if you are available, because you should not have Danish unemployment benefits. There we also have a proposal, which we will make later, on the indexation of daily allowances. But it should not be the case that, as a newly educated person, one should benefit from graduating benefits here in Denmark. There have to be other things, and that is why we would also call on the Minister of Employment to look at the problem of too many foreign graduates, because of course this poses a problem: do they want to get a job, or do they just benefit from the fact that they can get a degree here in Denmark? This is certainly something that we in the Danish People's Party want to have looked at more closely. It is a great cost to Danish society that we have to pay to new graduates, because they have not already paid so much to Danish society or paid to be entitled to a daily allowance. However, as the proposal stands, we will not vote in favour of it either. We have an agreement on an allowance settlement, and that is, of course, where we have to look at whether there are any irregularities that need to be changed, and we in the Danish People's Party are also ready to look at that. I understand what the Liberal Alliance brings with it. It is a lot of money that will be spent if it goes too long. But we need to see if they get the right effort and if they are told that you will lose the right to unemployment benefits if you do not apply for a job. I believe that once we've come six months or a whole year further forward and we've seen how this effort works in relation to cashiers and job centres, we have a completely different approach to it. If it doesn't work, we need to take a different approach, because some changes need to be made to get them to work. Then I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135034	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135038	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that it would be right, really healthy if some of these unemployed academics chose to do an honest job in some fields that they have not been trained in, whether in Netto or in other good places. That is what I hear the rapporteur say, i.e. it would be good and healthy for them. The calculations made on our proposal show that if you lower the graduation benefit rate from the approx. 13,500 kroner. to DKK 8,500, so that you still experience a real increase in income, then it is approx. 6,000 out of the 20,000 unemployed graduates who have been given a job, and some of them will get a job, just like Mr. Bent Bøgsted wants it, that's outside their field. So if you implement this proposal, you will fulfil some of the wishes of the Danish People's Party rapporteur, but yet the Danish People's Party will not vote in favour. I want to hear the consequences of implementing our proposal, which is so negative that you do not want the benefit that up to 6 000 people will do what Mr. Bent Bøgsted wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135142-2	First of all, we have an agreement in the area of daily allowances, and it goes without saying that we respect that, and if we have to discuss this and find a solution, we will of course do so in the conciliation circle behind the agreement on the daily allowance for graduates. Secondly, I also believe that it can be changed so that a graduating to apply for a job is told: We have a job for you; please take it if you do not take it, you will lose your daily allowance. Then it is up to them whether they want to lose the benefits or take that job. And one of the most important things you can do to get a good job is to show the ability and willingness to work, and you do that by taking the jobs that are offered. Then you can easily, while you are in that job, seek another job that suits the education you have. My speaking time is up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135236	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135240	So if, next week, we in the Liberal Alliance are to table a motion for a resolution calling for the practice to be followed in all municipalities that the second one which, as an unemployed person, after completing training on unemployment benefits, is to reject just one job, then you have to lose the benefit immediately. That is what I hear, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted say "Dansk Folkeparti" would then support that resolution, or do you not really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135308	Well, now that's the way it is, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, that when you have a settlement in an area, you are of course negotiating it in the conciliation circle, so you do not make an agreement bypassing the conciliation circle. We are ready to negotiate in the conciliation circle on measures to help the unemployed enter the labour market, that is clear. And since the Liberal Alliance has been in government, the Liberal Alliance also knows that if you are part of a settlement, it is in the conciliation circle that changes are negotiated if it is covered by the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135340	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135350	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance wants to lower the graduation rate, and that is something so significant. Just to take the completely upfront, the Radical Left is against the motion for a resolution. It is important that there is support for the benefit system, and one way to continue recruiting for the benefit system is to pay for new members to join, including newly trained ones. A great deal of support for the benefit system is, in fact, important because, alternatively, we will be able to see a very inflexible labour market, where, for example, we will be able to see a very rigid labour market. have long periods of dismissal entered into its contracts. The fact that newly educated people should be in employment rather than on unemployment benefits is, in my view, an attitude that I share, and I think everyone is doing that, including the newly educated ones. Because when you've spent a number of years on the school bench, I actually think you're hungry to get into employment, get into jobs and use all the skills you've acquired. I think that more can be done there. Many graduates, for example, point out: They lack closer cooperation between their place of training and then the buyers, i.e. the companies. At the same time, I also believe that it is a political task to ensure that good initiatives such as this one are carried out. The academic campaign may exist in a campaign where both graduates and companies discover the benefits of having academics employed. The Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135532	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135538	Thank you. There are many of us who have thus sought the radical influence on this government, and one of the places where you could see it and get a little hope of it, was in the understanding paper, where you have to assume that it was the Radical Left that got written in that every time you weakened employment, the labour supply decreased during this parliamentary term, then you had to make compensatory reforms that would increase the supply of work. So far, only the supply of labour has been weakened. Here you will have a golden opportunity to press the government with the understanding paper in your hand and say: We want our influence now. We would like to see a greater supply of labour. We would like more people to be available for the labour market. We are following the Liberal Alliance's proposals. Would it not be precisely a good radical policy to continue to reform, also in relation to the benefit system, to ensure that it is better worth working, or was it written into the understanding paper just to be a little sluggish, but it was not really meant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135636	The Radical Left would very much like to exert its influence, but it must be radical influence, not the influence of the Liberal Alliance, which must be exercised. In fact, we believe that what is in the paper of understanding, namely that if labour supply is weakened, it must be strengthened accordingly elsewhere. And it is simply not true that it has not been done. Take e.g. the Finance Act. A number of initiatives have been taken, such as: As far as foreign labour is concerned, an initiative which, when the Liberal Alliance sat in government, was not able to get through in order for companies to also have access to skilled labour. It was not something that the Liberal Alliance could get through when they were in government themselves, because the Danish People's Party kept sticking a stick in the wheel. After all, we have succeeded. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135723	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135725	I just have one question. After all, calculations have been made on the labour supply effect of the Finance Act. Can the rapporteur state what the labour supply effect is from the Finance Act, according to quite normal calculations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135741	I do not remember the exact figure, but it is true that if you do a calculation through the machinery of the Ministry of Finance, it will come out with a tiny minus. That's why I'm here. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. The same applies, moreover, to the two-year rule that we have also succeeded in getting through to refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135810	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135818	Thank you. Dishes have been cut off from the daily allowance sausage, deterioration in deterioration has been queued up, and today the coverage rate for the daily allowance is also so low that we risk that many employees end up opting out the cashiers. On the contrary, we need to strengthen the cashiers and our solidarity insurance system. It is important that the benefit system is so attractive that the new graduates also opt for membership of an unemployment fund and thus also the ongoing counselling and career guidance that makes them end up in a job. If we opt out of the young boxes, we simply save over the branch on which an important part of the labour market sits. And that will eventually lead to the undermining of our dynamic and flexible labour market, because the basis for flexibility and dynamism is security. However, I would like to admit that changes are actually needed for young unemployed people, not by reducing the rate for graduates, but with the proposal that the SF has made a few times, namely that if you receive only half the daily allowance, as you do when you are under 25 years of age and have been unemployed for more than six months, then you pay only half the quota. I think that would be only fair. This was supposed to be SF's kick-in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204135946	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140001	Thank you. I think it has happened that this problem has been misdiagnosed and therefore a bad solution. It should be borne in mind that the graduation scheme includes everyone with an education of more than 11⁄2 years. Yet most people here talk about the academics alone. And why do they do that? This is because they are the ones who are falling into the eye not because the unemployment rate has increased, but because for a shorter period there have been exceptionally many academics trained. So it is not because academic unemployment percentage has increased dramatically. I have heard no one here argue that a trained sosu assistant, for example. must take a job as a bricklayer or something. It's the academics who have to stand up for it. And there I would say that when society pays a long and expensive education, it is intended that that education should be used for the benefit of society. And it does, of course, know that the graduates use their acquired knowledge and experience in the subjects in which they are trained. One of the problems is that when you apply to work, many employers try to avoid people who are inexperienced with the remark: I cannot hire you because you have no experience. But you only get experience if you're hired. So it's such a vicious circle. But by forcing graduates into unskilled jobs, it makes it more difficult for unskilled unemployed people to get that job and thus increases the unemployment of that group. So there is no other form of job supply at the overall level. That's what you call the cuckoo effect. Then I would like to say, for information, that the unemployment benefit rules available are very specific. If you say no to a job, you get into some kind of on-call test activity that can be either an internship or something else. There is no possibility of continuing to raise unemployment benefits if you say no to a job offered. The problem is that not so many jobs are offered, because they are not there. That is where the problem lies. So we cannot support this solution to a problem other than that for which the solution is put.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140215	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140220	Thank you. Mrs Jette Gottlieb says that the rules are supposed to be the case today, that if you, as an unemployed academic on unemployment benefits, turn down a job in, for example, a job. IKEA, you lose your daily allowance. But that's not true. There are plenty of examples in the media of people who openly and honestly and almost proudly tells Emil here on the front page of Berlingske in his time that you haven't agreed to a job in IKEA. So I just need to hear to understand Enhedslisten's position, if Enhedslisten's position is that you have to tighten the rules further so that people like Emil immediately lose the benefits when he says no to a job? Is it the rapporteur's view that the rules should be tightened further so that we cannot continue reading these types of cases so that the rules are actually followed, or is it just empty talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140257	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140310	No, there's no empty talk in it. There may be an assessment of whether the person concerned should be considered by a job centre. But the rules are perfectly clear. You can't say no to a job without being made available afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140329	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140343	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance proposes to reduce the graduation rate in the benefit system for non-parents to DKr 8,490. a month. That's 45 percent. of the highest daily allowance rate. Too many graduates spend too much time getting into jobs after finishing training, and one of the reasons may be the high performance that you get as a newly educated person without a job. As you walk at home, you can look forward to something similar to twice what you get in su in your time as a student. Despite economic recovery and a marked decline in unemployment, the number of unemployed graduates has increased, and this is a paradox when there is such a high demand for labour, because companies demand labour, we have a shortage of labour. There are jobs to get when you're newly trained. It's not always the dream job, but there are jobs to get. Coop has said they have room for all the newly educated unemployed in the Akademikernes A-kasse. It is at least the least that can be demanded of young people who have just received the world's highest education and a tax-financed university education, so that they take the jobs that are there until they get the dream job. A prerequisite for keeping our free education system is that people contribute. It is quite natural for the Conservative People's Party to expect people to contribute and pay back for their free education, because if you can work, as the authors of the Liberal Alliance describe in their comments on this motion for a resolution, you will reduce the graduation rate to DKK 8 000. In addition, there will be millions more in the Treasury. This is good not only for our common fund, but also for the 6,100 people who come to work. It is important to remember that in his time as a student, the graduates have lived on su, and therefore the argument of net compensation cannot be used as an argument for not changing the graduation rate. As a newly trained person without a job, you can look forward to a benefit of almost twice as much. We in the Conservative People's Party believe this to be unfair and not as intended by the benefit system. The Conservative People's Party believes that the graduation rate for non-parents should be reduced to what LA is proposing, and that is why we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140635	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140654	Thank you. This resolution is against everything the alternative stands for. I can hardly imagine anything further from our policy. And it's not that I don't think that, for example. academics can be used really, really wide and for really, very many things, if we, for example. Takes the academics mentioned in this proposal. I'm a self-employed person myself. My company isn't that big, but I hire people every now and then, and I've been happy to hire academics in my company too, which is such a small knowledge company. I have hired someone who has studied literature history; I have hired an architect, a master, a chaos pilot. Common to these people has been that they have some basic, transversal skills like being able to create an overview, be able to work independently, be able to analyze things, have strong writing skills, which means that there is not much to teach them. And then I have seen in all of them that there has been a huge urge to get started and a very, very great concern about the fact that you cannot get started on the work for which you have been trained for a very long time. So I very much see that at least the people I have been in contact with who come out of the education system would like to get started incredibly. Apparently, L.A. doesn't trust that. LA can give an example, LA can also give ten examples of some who, for a short period of time, may not have wanted to take a specific job or 50 examples. But it should not be used to suspect thousands and thousands of graduates who come out and who work hard to get to work and contribute to society. Nobody takes an education to sit on their hands afterwards. I admit that we can be better at matching those who come from education with our jobs. It could be company-to-business campaigns where such ones as me tell other business leaders how much they can do, almost wherever they come from, for example. a university, but it could also be other colleges. The alternative will never be in favour of this type of coercion and incentive, which may push some people into work in the short term, but which I am afraid pushes some people onto some wrong shelves. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur also says: when people have taken a long education and society has paid them to take a long education, they must be matched with the shelf where they do the most good compared to the education they have taken, instead of being pushed onto a wrong shelf, which can be a super excellent shelf for others. But these people have learned something we can use, and that's what we can use the most, of course, they have to do. Then there are some educations where it takes some time to find that shelf, but I certainly have time to wait for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140951	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204140955	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the lowering of the rate for unemployment benefit recipients after completion of training goes against everything the alternative stands for, followed by a beautiful battle speech about how resourceful many unemployed academics are. And I fully agree with the rapporteur that one of the most well-kept, strong and most privileged social groups we have at all is some of those who have studied long-term higher education. These are some of the very last people here in Denmark that we should feel sorry for, because they so I fully agree with that. But I understand that you are against this proposal anyway, because you are afraid that you are forcing them to land on the wrong shelf, and it must then almost be a job in Netto or in IKEA. And I really just want to hear about these resourceful people, these people that we agree have a lot of potential, what's so terrible about them having to work six months or a whole year in IKEA? What is so inhuman about it? What is it that goes so much against the values of the alternative if you take a job in Netto, even if you are not trained for it? I don't really see what's wrong with taking a job in Netto.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141104	There is nothing wrong with taking a job in Netto, but it does not sound as if the rapporteur has been in Netto or facts lately or in some of those stores. Those who work in the cashier in Netto are mostly young under 18 years of age. The rapporteur would be able to see that if the rapporteur were to go into the nearest nette or facts. So let us bury that example once and for all with the fact that we have to send academics of 25 years old, for example. down to take jobs they'll never get in Netto. Those in the nettle box will be able to see if the rapporteur sets his feet in reality and goes down to Netto are young people under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141142	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141145	In other words, when I act in my local facts in Vanløse, it is rare that it is young people under the age of 18 that it is very much immigrant women, in fact only women who are not Danish but who get a foothold in the labour market. I act daily in facts in Vanløse, and I don't recognize Mr. Torsten Gejl's picture. On the other hand, I didn't find the article in Berlingske the other day about a vacant academic who did what the Alternative doesn't want: The person took a job in Netto, although he was trained for some communication stuff. He started on the floor cleaning, and now he has ended up in a top management position in Netto and has an amazingly nice job, which he is incredibly happy about. He's moved into the system. Isn't it just a great example that working in Netto may not be so bad and that it's not just something you do when you're 17? Should the rapporteur not be anything more out of the real world, so to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141234	That's a wonderful story. There's nothing wrong with Netto. I'm just saying that by far, by far, most people sitting in the register will see that the rapporteur himself is young under 18 years of age. If anyone wants to go into some of the excellent warehouses, excellent jobs and work their way up, then that is quite fine for us too. What I am tired of is the fact that the Liberal Alliance is pulling out one, two, three, four, five examples of some who, apparently for a period of time, have not wanted to take a particular job and that it needs to be used to suspect so many, for example. academics or graduates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141306	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141308	Thank you for that, President. I don't need to be smart about Netto and young workers, etc. We can also skip that a little bit, but what we are talking about is that I would like to hear the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, if anything, and congratulations on the new position as political rapporteur. Isn't that the case, sir? Torsten Gejl also believes that if you take a job in some company • it doesn't have to be Netto, and it doesn't have to be the facts; it can be any job you take then you show a future employer that here someone wants to work? Then you can work, and while you are in that job, you can apply for a job within the education you have received, and then you show a future employer: I want to work, take me; I'm not just sitting on a bench, but I want to work. It is worth it for a newly trained person to show that he wants to work, and that is something he can sell himself on to a future employer in the training he has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141413	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. As an employer, it always impresses me if people who are looking for work with me are at work or take jobs and are not so critical and have tried some things in their lives. I just want instead of putting down people's graduation and, I think, maybe chasing them on a shelf where they don't do what we paid them for, much rather do other things. Yes, it also makes an impression on me if they have skilled themselves, if they have sought knowledge about my business, if they have sought knowledge about other companies, if they have tried in every way to get in and use what they can, and what we have paid them to learn about a business. So, yes, it makes an impression that people are at work, but that is not the only thing that impresses me as a manager.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141503	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141504	Now I wasn't just talking about having the graduating rate set down, and that's Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl also realizes, but when you look at the large group of graduates, it is very widely composed. There are graduates in all areas. There are also graduates in the craft sector, it is a very broad group, and it is not the case that it is just one training that is. But the most important thing for a newly educated must always be to show a future employer: I want to work, trust me, don't think that I'm just coming to sit on a bench, I'm ready to take this job, and then I'm looking for you when there's a job available with the education I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141548	Yes, but as I understand DF's rapporteur, DF is not looking to lower the graduating rate, and we agree with that. In the alternative, we believe that it is the wrong handle, it is the wrong tool to use. We would much rather devote a great deal of effort to showing companies what graduates can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141550	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141619	Thank you. I am deeply provoked when I hear about these young academics who feel too good to go out and take a job, so this message is very much for them: here's what you're going to hear, this country is built on hard work and hard work, it's built up by past generations, grandparents, great-grandparents who worked day in and day out. They didn't just break up in the field and say no to a job. No, they took hold; they did not say no, because they had to have some personal self-realization project that a job so did not fit in with. So when you're out there, young academics, pampering spoiled curling children, it's just the grandparents who have worked hard, it's them and their work that you shit loud and handsomely, and you should honestly be ashamed of yourselves. And for that there's just to say, "Go and get a job."
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141725	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204141741	Thank you. We have a special and significant challenge in Denmark with a high level of graduating • very many unemployed graduates end up after completing training on the daily allowance and it is particularly high for graduates coming from universities. And that's how 30 percent. Of those who are graduates from universities, one year after the end of their studies is on unemployment benefit. So that is where the problem is concentrated, that is, with the most resourceful, with the children of the privileged, with the elite of the future, so to speak. And as many others have said, this is something that has been a particular challenge for a number of years, but graduation has been increasing in recent times. And the numbers haven't been so high in incredibly many years. After all, the media are full of various examples of graduates who stand out and honestly say that they do not want to take certain types of jobs. I have highlighted a few of them in the course of today, but it is no more than a few months ago that in Berlingske you could read about Emil, who stood up and said that he would not take a job outside Copenhagen, and he would not work in IKEA if it were at night. And he has continued to be. We're gonna jump to Information. It is also no more than a few months ago that a vacant academic wrote a long speech about why you should not take a job in Netto, although it is something that the Minister of Employment says you have a duty to: When the Minister says so, the academy chairman, Lars Qvistgaard, goes out and specifically answers the minister again and says that highly educated people should not be forced to take a job in Netto. And so there remain various examples of graduates and unemployed academics who themselves stand out saying that they will not take certain types of jobs and that they will not move very far for it. This simply clearly proves that there is a challenge with the attitude of some benefit recipients who have ended up on unemployment benefit after university education. There is such a very special favouritism of graduates within the benefit system. First of all, they should not contribute to an unemployment fund at all. They do not have to pay a quota and they do not have to meet any employment requirements; they simply have to become free members and get an income increase by going from being a student to being unemployed. Then they find that the public income rises from just under DKr 6,000. a month to be over 13,000 kroner. a month by insurance against losing a job they've never had. But then it is not an insurance benefit, so it is just a doubling of public support as some kind of reward for having joined an insurance fund without paying for it. So, I understand that the argument is clearly that it is simply so great a gain that you join an insurance fund that you have to be rewarded for it by experiencing a doubling of your public income. It is, after all, in the light of the challenges that we have put forward our proposal, which is quite moderate. It can be said that the problem is twofold when we have over 20,000 unemployed academics on unemployment benefits. One is, of course, that we are over-educating in education, which cannot be used to a great extent. That is one problem. The second problem is, of course, that we have a benefit system where it is simply too attractive to keep on not seeking certain types of jobs, as I have explained before. And that is why we quite pragmatically suggest that instead of experiencing more than a doubling of one's income by going from being a student to being unemployed and getting this 13,500 DKK, one should only experience a small increase in one's income and then get approx. 8,500 kroner. instead of DKK 13,500. It will release 2 billion. kr. It will free up 2 billion of the tax dollars. kr. extra in the treasury, because we are saving some money that we are no longer giving to some of the most privileged and resourceful groups in this society that is on the daily allowance. And that will ensure that out of the 20,000 unemployed academics who are today, 6,000 of them will get to work. And that is the most important reason why we support our proposal. Of course it is also our own proposal, so it would be strange if we did not do so. So that we actually solve the part of the problem that is about the fact that for many of them it is not worth working. Then there is the part about us overtraining people in wrong education. We are not going to solve that part here, I admit it, but we are actually going to solve the second part of the problem without using more whip, without getting more system, without having more rules of availability, without creating more bureaucracy, but just by ensuring some common sense and some good, healthy financial incentives. And then you don't have to talk about more right and duty, more rules of availability, more bureaucracy, more whip, new partnerships, and what else you hear from most of the parties in here. In addition, it is a matter for us to see quite banally also of a reasonable consideration. In other words, the idea of our welfare society has never been that some of the most resourceful groups, the children of the privileged, who take a long university education, are those who have to experience income growth by not wanting to take certain types of jobs. It has never been the intention of the social democratic welfare society to redistribute from the workers to unemployed academics. That was not the idea and dream of the welfare society at the time, but that is the situation we have now. In other words, it is the brewery worker Arne and the carpenter Lars and the port worker Leif, whom I mentioned earlier, with a glimpse in the eye, of course, but nevertheless it is quite concrete people in Denmark who get up early in the morning and go to work to pay to people who have read spatial designs and society, visual arts or European ethnology, and what else is of education that has a sky-high degree. In fact, we do not think that is fair, so for us it is also, in addition to resolving the problem, about a reasonable view. So I would not say that the empire lacks money, but there is a great deal of expenditure that you can choose to prioritise and the 2 billion. kr., you will get extra by following our proposal, does, besides that more will get to work and that it becomes a more reasonable system that then suddenly you also have 2 billion. kr. extra between your hands. And they could be used to lower the electricity tax, to boost the green transition or to lower some other taxes for people who go to work. Or you could invest them for the benefit of some of the most vulnerable groups in this society... citizens with disabilities, mentally ill, drug addicts, that is to say, some of the most socially vulnerable in this society, who may find that efforts are being spared in their municipality. It could be said that some money from unemployed academics is given priority over to the most vulnerable groups or one could lower taxes and invest in green conversion, or whatever. There are plenty of things that are more important than favouring some of the most resourceful in this society, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204142454	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204142508	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204142527	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is an opportunity to discuss an important issue and, at the same time, it gives me the opportunity to explain the current EU negotiations in this area. With the motion for a resolution tabled, the authors of the motion for a resolution want us to introduce legislation in Denmark to index the daily allowance for exports to the price level in the EU country where an allowance recipient is looking for work. Since this is a re-submission of motion for a resolution B 9 from 2017, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, I have already spoken on the proposal in this Chamber and the position has not changed since we are now in government. It is essential that EU rules reflect common sense and that they are seen as reasonable for citizens who pay their taxes, cash contributions, etc. during a lifetime. In addition, it is important that we ensure the Danish benefit system, and the starting point for obtaining Danish daily allowance is that you are available for the Danish labour market. This applies to both Danes and other EU citizens. That is why I also support the intention behind the proposal, but as the authors themselves write in their comments on the proposal, it is in all likelihood contrary to EU rules. I would like to put my head on the block and say that this is not only likely, but is undoubtedly contrary to EU law. The government cannot support motions for resolutions calling directly for breaches of EU law. After all, we need to comply with EU rules and instead work to change rules that we consider unfair within the existing EU legal framework. The EU cannot function if Member States unilaterally change their own rules in violation of EU rules. This is something we must instead take at the negotiating table, and here the government is working precisely to ensure fair EU rules. Specifically, it is the government's main focus to ensure more fair movement in the ongoing negotiations on amending Regulation 883 • that is the regulation that coordinates social benefits in the EU. In the negotiations Denmark has made it very clear that we want to introduce an opportunity to index child benefit to match the price level in the Member State in which the child lives. It is simply a matter of fairness and fairness. Moreover, this was also what the agreement with Great Britain in the European Council of February 2016 was about. We have brought together an alliance of like-minded countries, but the Commission and the majority of EU countries are working against indexing child pay, so unfortunately it looks very difficult. I would also like to emphasise that the unemployment allowance area is a priority for the government in the current negotiations. From the Danish side we work actively with similar-minded countries against an extension of the export period for daily allowances from 3 to 6 months. In principle, we would prefer an even shorter period than 3 months, but it is very difficult in Brussels, and that is why we are stronger in the negotiations by being part of the group of countries that want to maintain the status quo. We are also working against a waiting period of one month's continuous work and unemployment insurance before you can combine periods from another EU country to meet the national requirements for entitlement to benefit. Both an export period of 6 months and a one-month waiting period were included in the compromise reached by the Commission, the European Parliament and the Romanian EU Presidency in March 2019, but as you know, Denmark and many other EU countries managed to block that agreement within the Council. So the negotiations aren't over yet. Until then, the government is working hard to draw the agreement as much as possible towards the Danish wishes, and we do so on the basis of a very broad mandate here in the Folketing, among others. with the support of the Danish People's Party and thanks for that. On the other hand, it is not part of the mandate of the Folketing in the negotiations to work for a proper indexation of the daily allowance, and I do not think there is any prospect of finding support among the other EU countries for indexing the daily allowance, unfortunately, so to speak. Here I would like to emphasise that when the European Council decided at the time that child benefit should be indexed if Britain remained in the European Union, it was a clear precondition that no proposals would be made for indexing other benefits. It is worth bearing in mind the difference between the two situations of child benefit and the daily allowance. Unlike a child living permanently in another EU country with a lower price level, a regular benefit recipient seeking work in another EU country will often have housing and family costs in Denmark. But here again, fairness must be measured against the length of the export period, and the government believes that six months is far too long. In conclusion, I can say very clearly that in the negotiations the government is putting in place where there is really a chance to rectify the current rules. Prejudice in EU rules must be removed. It is the government that is very concerned about it. For basically, we must remember that Denmark has huge benefits from being part of European cooperation, and I would like to conclude by emphasising this. About one fifth of Danish jobs are linked to the export of goods and services to the internal market, and a great many of the Danes think that membership of the EU is a good thing. So when we are so concerned about creating fairness in the rules and more fair movement, both in terms of access to daily allowances and in terms of combating social dumping, it is also because we want to maintain that support. We believe that it is common sense that there should be equal treatment in the European Union so that citizens do not lack protection if they become ill or unemployed. But, for example, when... the possibility of export of daily allowances goes beyond equal treatment, and when common sense stops, we must try to change it. However, we will only gain influence in cooperation with the Commission and the other Member States if we withdraw from cooperation and go our own way just to set an example. The government cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143116	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143121	Thank you for that, President. I don't know what I'm gonna say... if you can afford to say nonsense in here in the Parliament hall. However, the Minister said just now that someone from Bulgaria who has worked in Denmark must receive the high daily allowance because they typically also have family and rent costs in Denmark. Can't the Minister hear what that sounds like? He talks about someone who may have been in work for 3 months, with the new rules down to 1 month, who has family and house and children in Denmark to pay for. They have the family at home in Bulgaria, and when they go down there, they can instead of this 6,000 kroner. get 18,800 kroner. with us back to Bulgaria. Can the Minister himself not hear that it sounds like nonsense to say that they have family expenses in Denmark when their family and house are in Bulgaria? They have just been up and working maybe 3 months or maybe only 1 month if the new rules come through as they probably do. Because the Minister does not really want to fight that. The Minister says he is fighting against this, but there is no prospect that the Minister can really fight against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143230	My example of foreign workers from other EU countries is, after all, the case of cases where they have actually reached a family and are resident in Denmark. That's what I used the example for. In addition, there is, of course, an opportunity to actually fight against the extension of the export period from 3 to 6 months which has been planned. At the moment, the negotiations are stagnating, and Denmark is part of a blocking minority. So right now we are doing very well to fight against that resistance, and we are going to stick to it in order to move things in a more reasonable direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143306	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143308	I think it's going to sound like more and more nonsense. Then the Minister says that it is someone who has had the opportunity to start a family in Denmark and settle in Denmark, who then goes to Bulgaria and seeks jobs. I guess there aren't any Bulgarians at their full five who want to go to Bulgaria and look for jobs for 40 kr. per hour, if they can get 200 kroner. per hour in Denmark. Can't the Minister hear how nonsense that sounds? This is about those who have been here 1 month or 3 months, and then they are entitled to Danish daily allowance. Then they take them to another EU country, perhaps Bulgaria, perhaps Poland, and look for jobs there. Those who have settled down with the family and everything have uprooted the stakes; they stay in Denmark. Surely they do not go to their country of origin and look for work to be underpaid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143358	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143359	I think, to be perfectly honest, that I do not disagree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted, and certainly not in the way Mr. Bent Bøgsted draws up the example. I mentioned an example of an EU worker who has been in Denmark for a long period of time, who is entitled to Danish daily allowances, and who may also have been able to start a family here. Somebody did. They may come from Italy or Spain; they may even come from Germany, not Bulgaria. These must be taken into account in the rules. But I fully agree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted in that it is unreasonable if it is that the amended rules of Regulation 883 succeed in extending the waiting period so that you can take the money with you for longer and probably also without the same rules of availability that we know from Denmark. It is for the very same reason that we are fighting against this enlargement with a broad mandate in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143452	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143456	Thank you, President. I would like to know if the Minister does not see the more fundamental problem we are facing. So, how to check that the demands we make on Danish benefit recipients are being met by people who are not in Denmark? Where is it that you have to go to prove that you are looking for jobs and that you are, indeed, living up to all the demands that are now being made? After all, this is not just about the fundamental problem of the EU interfering in an area in which we have never been given the prospect of the European Union interfering. It is also about the fact that a great deal of money is being sent out of Denmark, which belongs in Danes' pockets, and about the fact that all the rules we make and the requirements we make in relation to the control of Danes who receive daily allowances in Denmark are difficult to enforce abroad. So does the Minister not agree that this is quite fundamentally a European Union out on the pretext that interferes with matters that should not belong at all in Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143556	I fully and in principle agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Morten Messerschmidt and, as such, the Danish People's Party in pointing out the unfairness of this. The reason why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution is because it is so openly setting out to break with the existing EU rules. We would very much like to cooperate with the Danish People's Party, and other parties, to draw EU rules in a better place. There is a lead right now, which is about the negotiations on Regulation 883, and in relation to where the negotiations are right now, it is not quite drawn to where the Danish People's Party would like to draw it. Basically, however, I agree that it all has to be based on a foundation of reasonableness. In addition, it is often pointed out in the debate that the abuse and the pull are not so great right now. What is, after all, my concern and that of the government is that it may in the long term be so, and that is why we also need to keep a close eye on this. And that is also why I welcome the motion for a resolution, although we cannot support it on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143653	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143655	It is, of course, a curious form of ambivalence to welcome something that is then voted against, but it may be included in the socialist logic. I would just like to remind you, in relation to how things are developing, how things were in the Su area. There was also the view that one did not really like the EU starting to interfere in how the money is paid out; then they started interfering, and then they said: we are now setting a ceiling on how much money must be paid out. The European Union has broken that ceiling now, and what is being done? Yes, they say: 'Oh, let us not mess with our friends in Brussels, for it is about sitting around the table, is it not?' So, does the Minister for Employment not see that it is a rather cowardly approach, not in relation to the European Union, but in relation to the Danish electorate who voted for him?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143734	No, I don't see it. I don't recognize it. Because the approach is really both to be honest and to stand by the commitments that you have signed up to and that you are part of. And that's why this fight for more fairness, for more fair movement is about trying to change the rules that exist. Unfortunately, Denmark is now relatively alone with those views. It is not certain that we will continue to do so, but right now we are relatively alone with those views. We are not doing so much in relation to the negotiations on Regulation 883 - there we are still part of a minority, so far after all part of a blocking minority - but in relation to the big agenda of indexing daily allowances, we are relatively alone. And you just have to admit that openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143817	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143819	I'm a little curious. If we put the EU law aside then what is the government's position? What's fair? How long should you have been in Denmark and worked in Denmark before you can take your daily allowance home? In the past we debated this with the graduation rate, and there we also found out that it was 19 per cent, I think, of those who received these benefits at the graduation rate, who were foreigners and who could take them with them. I would like to ask the government: if we now ignore the EU, what is the government's position on how long you as a foreigner must have worked in Denmark before you can take your daily allowance home?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143900	We basically believe that the people who are here and who are employees from other EU countries and work in Denmark must follow the same rules as apply to Danish employees and that therefore there should be no different rules for them. That is also why we have expressed clear opposition, both when we were in opposition and now that we are in government, to everyone wanting to change the rules so that they differ from the rules that Danish employees, who are a-box insured, must comply with. So we basically think it should be uniform. We think that is only fair, and that is also why we are working against an extension of the export period, in relation to how long you can take the daily allowance with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143936	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143938	Thank you for your answer. When it comes to indexing these benefits, if we now override the EU legal aspect again, does the Social Democratic Party think that it would be a reasonable arrangement to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204143952	After all, we have warmly and openly supported the principle of indexing child benefit, for example, and I also think it is easy to discuss the extent to which if you could reach that point, employees should have the allowance indexed when they take them back to the country from which they come, and the level of expenditure there is, moreover, different from ours. In principle, I think that is right. But of course we also have to deal with the political reality that is in Europe right now, and it is that in Denmark we certainly also have the system we have, which on many stretches differs from the other systems that stand right alone with these views. That is why we must fight the battles where we can move things in the right direction, and we are doing so at this stage in the negotiations on Regulation 883.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144038	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144049	After all, it is very difficult to make this speech very long without having to repeat what our Minister and former Socialist rapporteur have just said from the platform. Therefore, I also choose to shorten it quite a lot and only relate to the main lines. We must always take care of our benefit system, and we must always ensure that those who receive daily allowances are also available and ready to take a job immediately. This can be difficult if you are in another country where the availability rules are not as strict as here at home. I would like to acknowledge that. At the same time, we also need to make sure that our daily allowance is not a roof-top table, which is why we have always fought against the need to make it easier for EU citizens to be able to receive daily allowances in this country and take them out for longer periods than they do today. That is why I also share the concern of the Danish People's Party, and I fully understand the proposal. In general, I also agree. However, I also have the position, of course, that the Minister has taken it would be strange if I had a different view • that we have to comply with the rules that exist in the European Union and change them in negotiations. Anything else would be strange, since we are now a member of the European Union with the benefits it also offers. I cannot help but listen to the Minister and others who are closer to the negotiations than I am. That is why I will use my strength in those places where there is the greatest chance of changing unreasonable changes, even though it seems as though it can be difficult. I am, of course, referring to the export of daily allowances, as the Minister mentioned, and as I mentioned just now. With these words, the Social Democratic Party thanks the Danish People's Party for raising this issue and for discussing the subject, but we will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144232	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144235	Thank you. I'm gonna need to hear Mr. Simpson. Leif Lahn Jensen about something about protecting the Danish daily allowance. I have a quote from an article with sir. Torben Poulsen, head of Dansk Metal's cashier and also chairman of Danske A-banker: If the change is implemented - and it appears to be - EU citizens will only have to work in one country for one month to be entitled to the country's cash benefits fund - and then they will be entitled to the country's cash benefits for six months. ▪ And on: And it's problematic if you ask Mr. Torben Poulsen, head of Dansk Metal's cashier and chairman of the Danish A-banks association. It is a major challenge and in the long term a risk to the entire Danish benefit system. If we go from three to six months, there may be even more who look at the lucrative opportunities to take Danish daily allowance home, he says. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Leif Lahn Jensen agrees with the chairman of Danske A-kasses that this is a major problem and it can undermine the Danish benefit system, because it will be a magnet. Then you only have to work 1 month before you can bring the money home and look for work for 6 months. - Sir... Leif Lahn Jensen did not see that this is a huge problem for the Danish unemployment benefit system? Because I understood from the Minister that it will probably be adopted because you do not want to fight against this, you cannot, you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144354	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144356	I fully agree with Mr. Mr Torben Poulsen, and I fully agree with what Mr Torben Poulsen has said. Bent Bøgsted says. That's why we have those worries. That is why the Minister has stood here and said that he is fighting night and day to avoid these rules. That's why we've said from day one that we're going to focus on it rather than indexing and we're going to do everything we can to change these rules. We are well aware that this is difficult, but we must not give up. Nobody's supposed to. And there is a broad consensus, both here and among the social partners, that we must fight for this. That is why I cannot agree more with the statements that are being made, and that is also why we are fighting in this direction, and then we must hope to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144428	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144430	Well, that's a little weird, because I understood from the minister that there's probably nothing to do, because it's EU rules, and they stand firm that you can't achieve anything because they're just being implemented. It's just kind of weird that you've given up in advance. When the European Union says something and waves the flag, the Social Democrats say: yes, we will do that; we will not fight against it, because you are saying that we must not. This is how it is perceived, and it is the opposite in the Danish People's Party, where we are ready to fight to get our views across to the European Union and to be right that it is devastating for Danish society. We have a system here in Denmark that is unique, and it can be destroyed by EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144516	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144518	I know that the Minister has not given up this fight at all and is constantly taking it down there in the European Union when he has the opportunity. I also did not hear the Minister say here that he is giving it up. I heard the Minister say it's hard. I heard the Minister outline exactly what the country is like, and I think that is a very right and honest thing to do from the platform, and that is what we should do. So I haven't heard the Minister give up. I just heard him say it's hard. And yes, it's hard, and we have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144543	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144545	Thank you, President. This indexing instrument isn't unknown. We saw that the Austrian Government has been on the ground in relation to child support; it has been discussed in all possible contexts. And when you hear the Prime Minister's EU policy, you can get the impression that you have a relatively critical view of the way things start from Brussels. In relation to the budget, the Prime Minister has even called it a clap. Then you have to expect that you also have some ambition to do something about it, that is to say, to do things a little less. I would like to agree that I think it is wrong to index welfare benefits paid at Danish level to people who are in and have living costs in Bulgaria or Croatia or all the other countries, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party voted into the EU. That is why I would just like to ask something: why should Denmark not be the helmsman in this area, why should those countries that dare to take the fight to index, while Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's Social Democrats sit back here and let others fight that battle?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144651	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has completely misunderstood it, and I do not think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has listened when both I and the Minister have said what we have done on the platform. The minister has said that he and this country are taking the lead. We did that when we had another government where it was Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, who was the Minister for Employment, and we are now doing so, and that means that we are not just sitting back, we are fighting to avoid this export. I would also like to say that I personally and we in the Social Democratic Party will not object to the indexation of the daily allowance, but we are just aware that this may be the battle we can win in relation to the export of daily allowances, and that is why we are going into this matter. When you take the fight down there and try to change it all the time, it is not the same as giving up, it is the same as fighting for it, and I think that is fine, and so did the previous government, and they should also be praised for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144736	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144738	I don't know what kind of fight this is, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen feels he's part of. The image that comes into my retina is with the mouse marching next to the elephant and saying: Oh, where we gung. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is not even able to press the right button here in Parliament, so how can he ever convince his minister to press the right button when he has flown all the way to Brussels? I simply think it is too thin, and that is why Mr Beazley has to do so. Leif Lahn Jensen simply dealt directly with what is going on in Austria and other countries, where you dare challenge the system, where you do not just sit down on your hands and say that uh, we will probably have a reprimand but actually fight against it. It would actually be very nice if it weren't just in the mouth, the government had this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144812	You dare to resist. You go down critically and take this discussion, and we do everything we can to get them to change their attitude because we think it is wrong and therefore you fight for it, and that is the same as going against it. We're not just leaning back. That's why I'm still wondering why Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't realize it, but I just don't think so. Morten Messerschmidt wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144830	Thank you. There was one more brief comment, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144835	Now the Social Democrat rapporteur spoke a lot about the principle of fairness and fairness. Is it reasonable that there are people in Brussels who have to decide the Danish daily allowances and legislation and that this makes the Social Democratic Party say that it has to be so; it may well be that we disagree, but if it is going to be so that it goes against us, then then we sit down and clap our heels in? Or do you want to take the fight and say that, no, you won't accept that? And then they're gonna have to sue Denmark. Or where are we? Or is it just that we blow ourselves up and say that we don't want it here, but every time the European Union puffs us up like we've seen time and time again, and this isn't the only example... you just sit down and say: Well, unfortunately, we can't do anything, our hands are tied; we just have to accept that when we're in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204144919	You'd almost think it was Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, who spoke again, but it is not, because you can only speak twice. It sounded almost totally identical. I just have to say we're gonna take that fight down there. We're not just leaning back. But we are also a member of the European Union, and that is why we are not breaking EU rules, because that would be completely wrong. We play, as we do here in the Folketing, according to the rules that are; we play in the negotiations that are; all parties try to gain influence, and we do so in the EU too, and I think that is the right thing to do now. That is why I think it is true that we are fighting all we can, but I would also like to say when Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen asks whether I think it is fair: No, I think it is not fair that this should happen. I would like the rules to be as they were in Denmark and that we continued with it. That's why we're fighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145002	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145004	I take that as a compliment that I sound like sir. Morten Messerschmidt in this case, because we are exactly in complete agreement. We fight for Denmark, we fight for our country. And we are fighting for no bureaucrats down in the EU to decide how the Danish tax dollars are to be used in this area. I'll take that as a compliment, so thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145023	That was praise too. It is not every day that we are allowed to praise, so much praise to the rapporteur for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145028	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145036	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. It is an important debate and discussion that we have as to whether the existing rules are reasonable. And it is also a debate that we had back in 2017 when the Danish People's Party tabled a similar motion for a resolution. The position of the Left has not changed since then. We will continue to work for fair and fair rules in the European Union, and we believe that the most sustainable approach to changing certain absurdities is doing so within the existing EU legal rules. In other words, basically, the European Union cannot function if each Member State changes its own rules in such a way that at the same time it is in breach of EU rules. The Left is in favour of strong EU cooperation, which is why we want change to take place through the EU and in cooperation with other EU countries. After all, the proposers have also noted in the motion for a resolution that this is contrary to existing EU rules on social benefits. More specifically, this is contrary to Regulation 883, which deals with social benefits in the European Union. After all, the regulation has been under discussion in the European Parliament back in spring 2019 and there is still no agreement on amendments to the regulation. There are also several countries which are opposed to the proposal that is on the table right now, including Denmark, but there is also Germany, Holland and Belgium that have spoken critically, as well as Hungary and Turkey. The problem of the motion for a resolution merely underlines that we have work to do within the framework of the European Union to ensure fair and fair rules, among other things. benefit period and employment requirements. Stronger EU cooperation depends, of course, on whether we can also reduce these inequities in the future. We cannot ignore the fact that this resolution, as it stands, is going to run counter to EU rules, and that is why the Left cannot support it at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145312	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145318	Thank you for that, President. I understand that the Left has polished the gloria. Now we have heard that there has been a new President of the Left who also has EU stockings. It was not only his father who had it, but the new President also has EU stockings so you have cleaned the gloria, and I wonder if Mr. Hans Andersen also has a pair of EU stockings. But let it go. - Sir... Hans Andersen not well hear the strange thing about saying that there are also countries that are critical of this, but that they are not doing anything? If the countries, as Germany does, really want to do something here, then they could put on the thumb screws and say: this is so important to us that we do not want to be involved in this. However, there are a great many countries that do not want to participate, and those who benefit from it are, for example, those who do. Hungary, it is the Czech Republic, it is Poland, it is Croatia, it is Bulgaria; it is the kind of countries that benefit from it. Why, then, should those who have lower benefits than the Danish benefit rate help to change the rules? - Sir... Hans Andersen does not hear that it sounds like a utopia to persuade those countries to help make changes within the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145436	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145438	I am well aware that very many countries in the European Union will not be in favour of indexing the daily allowance. When I referred to the countries I mentioned, it was in relation to the discussion on the daily allowance period, i.e. the export of the daily allowance period and the employment requirement, and there I am still relying on Germany to be an ally in this discussion on the export of daily allowances, and the case and regulation 883, after all, is not yet the country. So I am confident that, together with Germany, we can make a better move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145523	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145524	Okay, that's how you put it down from three months to one month, sir. Hans Andersen is optimistic about being able to stop. There was now no indication that under the previous government and with the former Left Minister there was a prospect that it could be stopped. After all, little came of it, and that is why it is also going on, and I have heard nothing new about the fact that it is on the way to stopping those rules and that is to say that they are being implemented at some point. If they are implemented, sir. Hans Andersen then prepared that we should look further at how we can curb the abuse of the Danish daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145609	I would like to discuss with the Danish People's Party how we ensure that we follow up closely on limiting, minimising, an abuse of Danish daily allowances. For I kind of share the Danish People's Party's view that Danish daily allowances are first and foremost something that goes to Danes working in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145632	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145635	I'm wondering if Mr. Cole... Hans Andersen may not really be upset here. 'Cause this is a train that left the left. The fact that the EU suddenly decides where to send Danish daily allowances is not something that has always been part of EU or Community cooperation, but it is something that has arisen, among other things. during one of the periods in which the Left has sat in government. You have not been so aware of it, which is why the train is like driving, and now it is too late to buy a ticket, and it is too late to stop the train. That's why I'm thinking... Hans Andersen perhaps on behalf of his party imagine to pay more attention also to future trains that might set in motion? There are, after all, several areas where social legislation is under fire from the European Union, in the sense that the Commission will force us to pay out this money to the people I think Mr. Hans Andersen and I agree not to have them. So can we count on the Left to be more vigilant and careful to ensure that no more social systems come under EU fire?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145742	The Left will continue to participate actively in EU cooperation, and I forgot to say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted that I also have a set of EU socks at home. They are gradually of an old vintage, but are nevertheless excellent and handsome yet. There is no doubt that we need to pay close attention to the consequences of the cooperation we are entering into, and here there is a matter of unemployment benefit, which is about indexing child benefit, where we have opinions, we share them with the Danish People's Party, that we would like them to be indexed, and there we still have a job to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145828	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145830	Without having to discuss the question, it's nice to hear that Mr. Hans Andersen leaves his socks at home. But what might be interesting to hear is, of course, whether Mr. Hans Andersen, who shares this criticism of the EU system with Dansk Folkeparti, might persuade his party colleagues to use the tools we have in the toolbox to slow it down. It is true that there are still areas where there is a right of veto in EU cooperation, for example we are talking about. at the moment on the 7-year budget, where Denmark has the possibility of vetoing. Why, then, has the Left not chosen to draw the two things together and say: we will never vote for the budget if we do not get our will through the indexation of the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145908	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145909	Now I am not the rapporteur of the Left, and I am quite confident that the Left has placed itself in the debate on the budget, on the size of the budget, on the 7-year budget, and also on the rebate. In that discussion, I believe, first of all, that the government has a challenge in saying one thing and perhaps doing another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145934	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204145938	I always wonder when I hear the Left. You have such an illusory approach to the European Union. It is said that it should be a narrower European Union, that it should not interfere in this, and that we should also decide for ourselves in Denmark. But the reality is that, when you want more Europe, you get a more centralist and more uniform harmonisation of these things. Because that is what the European Union wants, that is the way the European Union is moving along. After all, there is no indication whatsoever that the European Union is moving along the path which the Left advocates that it wants the European Union to move along. That is why I am surprised to hear that the indexing of unemployment benefits and child benefit and everything else is good, but that, if it does not happen, it is just something we have to accept. Is it really the position of the Left that the way the European Union is moving is just something we have to accept, yes, we are struggling a little, but if that is what the European Union wants, is that just what we have to accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150031	I started by saying that this is an important debate. But I also believe that we need to take our fights and put our energies where we think we can make a difference in the short run, and that is about the export of daily allowances, and that is about the employment requirement, and that is where I support the work that the government is doing under the auspices of the European Union. Then I also believe that we should have a discussion on indexing child pay. We agree with the new citizens that this is a great injustice which we must correct. But in the very short space of time it is the other two things that we are exerting our energies in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150112	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150114	Could the rapporteur perhaps mention a few examples of where the Left, also as a government, has actually been willing to set foot against the European Union? Are there any areas where they say: No, here and no longer, we simply will not put up with that, and no, so must we take that fight? Or is it this way: yes, we fight a little, and then we just accept that it is dictated from down there no matter what? Could you give some examples of where you have put your foot down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150142	I cannot quote one example after another here, but there is no doubt that when we have been involved in working together in the European Union, it is to seek maximum influence, and I think that Denmark, when it comes to setting up the board, has a clear, clear advantage of being involved in EU cooperation. We also have a clear advantage in young people, for example. can go around the European Union and train and go back again, and that we can also go out throughout the European Union and work. That is, of course, the result of the cooperation that we have today, and we are quite happy with that. But, of course, we must always be critical and constructive, and that is the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150226	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150245	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we basically want to strengthen freedom of movement and we believe that people should have the opportunity to look for work in other countries rather than stay in Denmark on unemployment benefits. So this change of incentive to look for work abroad is something we are opposed to, and, as such, the other way around. Because, as the Minister mentioned in his speech, it is 20%. In the case of the jobs in Denmark which are tied up on exports etc., and in the Radical Left we think that we should be able to attract the labour that companies need. Finally, it is about people who have paid into an unemployment fund and earned the right to unemployment benefit, and you have to be at work to earn the right to benefit. If, as the Minister put it, it is probably or undoubtedly contrary to EU law, then it is, as it were, a matter for the Radical Left, and we are opposed to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150401	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150404	Thank you for that, President. The rapporteur said that it is people who have paid into the a-box. I assume that Mrs Samira Nawa is aware that today it is only three months that you have to pay into an unemployment insurance fund in order to be entitled to one year's daily allowance in Denmark. And if the new rules go through, it is only 1 month that you have to pay into a Danish insurance fund to be entitled to Danish daily allowance for 1 year. It was something else if you had paid for 12 months and had earned the right to unemployment benefit in Denmark, but you have not. Typically, you may have earned the court in Poland or Bulgaria, and then you can just go to Denmark and work for 3 months or for 1 month with the new rules when they get through and then you are entitled to Danish daily allowance instead of the daily allowance from your home country. Does the rapporteur not think it is a little strange that this should be the way it should be? It should be the case that at least 12 months should have been earned in Denmark in order to be entitled to Danish daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150515	I don't think it's strange. What I am dealing with is that it is much better that people who end up in unemployment in Denmark have the incentive to seek work abroad rather than stay in Denmark on unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150538	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150540	I understand that Radicals have that view, because Radicals are a very EU-friendly party and think that we in the European Union should only be one country and that we should give up our own independence in Denmark. That is what Radicals are working for. And then you get your rules; you're the same all over the world. But it should be the case that if you earn in Bulgaria, you have to pay the same amount to an insurance fund to get the same amount. But that is not the case. You can earn a cheap payment in Bulgaria, then you can go to Denmark for one month, and then you are entitled to the full Danish daily allowance. It is then to undermine the Danish benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150621	It is quite true that the Radical Left is an EU-positive party. We see all the advantages of Denmark being a fully integrated part of the European Union. And that is why it is clear that when a resolution such as this is contrary to EU law, we cannot, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150643	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150646	I noted that the rapporteur used the term fully integrated member of the European Union, i.e. a country without restrictions, reservations or reservations vis-à-vis the European Union. That leads me to ask: is it the case that there are other areas, in other words other welfare benefits, to which Mrs Samira Nawa believes that the European Union should harmonise access? There's, for example, there's... I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work in the Member States of the European Union has not yet been adopted. I mean, why, in fact, limit itself only to su, child benefit and benefit? Why let the Commission be the ones who keep driving this train? Could the Radical Left not in fact as well as the European Commission lead this vendetta against Danish taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150749	Yes, fully integrated membership of the European Union without any reservations is where the Radical Left stands. But no, I do not see a situation in which the Radical Left places itself in the place of the European Commission. That was not the point when I said that we should be fully integrated into the European Union. Radical Left does not work for the indexation of the retirement pension, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150827	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150828	Well, then why the message, Mrs. Samira Nawa? However, the Radical Left represents Denmark in the European Commission, so why not complete it, so to speak. Could it not be imagined that there might be some poor job seekers in Romania or Croatia or elsewhere who might refrain from seeking work in Denmark because they are not fully and equally entitled to a national pension? It is, of course, the rhetoric that Mrs Samira Nawa used earlier, so that we have to hand out the allowance because otherwise it might prevent some from applying to Denmark. So it is just that I am trying to explore Mrs Samira Nawa's thinking and say: could it not be that the restrictions in other areas are holding Eastern workers to come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150905	My thinking is that if you have paid into a Danish unemployment fund, worked in Denmark and earned the right to unemployment benefit, it is much better that if you should become unemployed, you have the opportunity to apply for work abroad rather than to be unemployed in Denmark. That possibility is available today, instead of people being maintained in having an incentive to be available in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150931	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204150940	I now think that the Danish People's Party's proposal makes very good sense, and I also think that the party should be thanked for raising an important and fundamental debate which, unfortunately, has proved somewhat more difficult to deal with in concrete political terms. It is, of course, good with mobile workers moving across borders, but it also presents a number of challenges, including the protection of workers' rights. After all, the issue that has been raised today is precisely on the agenda of the European Union, and the negotiations on Regulation 883 have not yet been concluded. SF believes that we need to regulate the conditions of the internal market through the European Union and create conditions for so-called migrant workers, but if support for the European Union is to remain top, I also believe that it is necessary for the rules to be fair and easy to understand, and that is why I believe that the principles of the Danish People's Party's proposal will help to create some of that. It just does not seem to be the way forward right now, but it must be to achieve results through the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151101	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151111	Thank you. See, there's a lot that suggests in this debate that you have very different experiences. For example, I have. the experience from 2009, 2010 and 2011, that quite a lot of Danish employees went abroad and sought work. My carpenter colleagues went both to Norway and to Germany and elsewhere during a period of high unemployment, and that was a good solution. What is the problem when we talk about this is that we have to remember that for the people who go out and work, there are double rents, double housekeeping and such things and hence a great deal of expenditure in this country, which of course follows the Danish price level. That has been the reality, and I think we should also bear that in mind. On the other hand, we are also aware that the situation will be different if there are new EU rules which both increase the daily allowance period to 6 months and lower the period for earning the daily allowance to 1 month. There we are fully aware of the fact that both a charging gate and an opportunity to abuse the Danish benefit system are being opened. Our basic problem is, of course, that we have a different labour market system than most other countries. We share the same view with the Nordic countries, but we have a very different labour market system, and it seems to be very difficult to recognise from the EU countries that this should be respected. For the time being, however, the blocking minority has been able to stand, and it does not seem that things are changing at first. So for now we will say that the current rules are feasible, but there will be another situation if the rules are changed. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support this proposal, and I would also like to welcome the alternative and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151309	Thank you. And there is just one brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151313	In my time in the Committee on European Affairs and in the European Parliament, I have considered that this should not sound like such a compromising piece of legislation as a kind of ally in the fight against the European Union. And that is why I am surprised that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not fighting a major battle against the EU's regulation of this area. So today we are in a situation where an Easter worker who may have been a member of an unemployment fund in his own country and who has earned the right can come to Denmark and, after just one month's work, receive Danish cash benefits. I do not understand how this can be in harmony with what Mrs Jette Gottlieb has just said, and I thought it was such a solidarity approach that someone who has only worked for one month in Denmark should be in the same position as someone who has worked all his life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151412	Well, then I understand that the questioner did not listen to what I said. Because I said precisely that if the rules are changed to the fact that it is about 1 month's earnings and about 6 months' cash benefits, then the situation is different, because it will open a barn door to abuse of the Danish benefit system • and that will undermine the Danish benefit system. On the other hand, I also say that in the current system, as it is, there are mutual advantages, and I think that should be taken advantage of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151439	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151440	So far, so good. But if you can see the problem of people coming from outside and after one month's work getting full cash benefits, why can't you see on the part of the Enhedslisten the problem of a totally disproportionate amount being paid in relation to the circumstances in which you live? Well, the two things are connected. It is about basic fairness and competitive balance in the European labour market, etc. If, on the one hand, we can take that into account in relation to the requirement in one month's time, why can we not do this in relation to indexation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151516	That is because the questioner has a very one-sided view that this scheme is only used by people who come from a country and then go home to their country with Danish daily allowances. But that is not the situation, and that is what I am saying: when you have different experiences, you also have different approaches. What I have experienced has been Danish carpenter colleagues who have used the scheme for a period of high unemployment to go abroad and look for work. It's worked pretty well. There have been tough regulations; if you are not home in the day, within three months, you lose your entire right to benefits, and then it's all over again. That is why we have said that this is not true in relation to the system that is now in place, but that it is true if the system is changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151558	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151559	Thank you for that, President. I fully understand Enhedslisten's point of view, because I remember that when the east enlargement came into place, Enhedslisten's position was that there should be free access for everyone, that one could easily get to Denmark, as long as one received Danish wages, which also corresponds to the fact that one can also obtain Danish daily allowances. I fully understand that. Mrs Jette Gottlieb then says that it is a problem if the new rules are changed, so that instead of being a member of an unemployment fund for three months, after which you are entitled to three months' benefit and can take them home, you can be a member of a Danish unemployment fund for one month, and then you are entitled to six months' benefit. I can see that Enhedslistens seems to be a problem. When Mrs Jette Gottlieb uses the example of a Danish carpenter who travels abroad to look for a job, it is nice to have Danish unemployment benefits with him. Yes, I can see that, but a Danish carpenter doesn't go to Bulgaria to look for work for 40 kroner. It's an hour. Can't Mrs. Jette Gottlieb hear how hollow that sounds? I have not met any Danish carpenter who will go to Eastern Europe to work for 40-50 DKK. It's an hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151708	Again, it is a very narrow concept of what it was used for. Now I specifically mentioned that those people actually went in specific cases to Norway, Germany and elsewhere to work while they were unemployed, and that makes good sense. That is why I am saying that the situation will be radically and markedly different if the new changes are introduced, because then it is a question of opening a barn door in order to undermine the Danish rules on unemployment benefits, and I am very vigilant about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151738	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151739	Thus, if you listen carefully, no one here in Denmark has claimed that you undermine the Danish benefit system by taking work in Norway, where you have higher wages than we have in Denmark. I know many people who go to Norway to work and they get good wages, but they don't go to Bulgaria or Romania to work for 40 kroner. It's an hour. So there are no Danish craftsmen in their right mind who would do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151813	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151818	Thank you. Now there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur we are going to have on the platform is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151827	Thank you very much. I'm here on behalf of Naser Khader. Over the last few years it has become clear that more and more Danes are going abroad and working, just as it has become clear that more and more Europeans see the advantage of going to Denmark and working for a shorter period. Afterwards, they can take Danish daily allowances with them, which have been paid according to Danish standards and thus enable them to live according to a standard that is not intended. We from the Conservative People's Party are very sceptical about this. An indexing of the daily allowance makes a great deal of sense. Denmark should not be a place to go to share our common good and then live in rushes and dus in its homeland. That is fundamentally unfair, and it is certainly something that should be looked at. Back in 2015, indexation of daily allowances was also on the agenda, but the European Commission would not discuss this, because free movement does not allow this indexation. When you are part of a community, there are some common ground rules that each one must observe, and unfortunately the rules are not for Denmark's advantage in this matter, but we must therefore abide by the rules. In the Conservative People's Party we therefore support the intention of the proposal, but we cannot go against EU legislation and therefore we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204151947	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152000	Thank you. This is a fundamentally fine motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, and I think that the debate here makes it clear that, although we are sitting in the Danish National Assembly, there is an increasing number of decisions that are being taken over the head of the Danish National Assembly. The power lies in Brussels with the bureaucrats and technocrats down in the European Union. They have the right to dictate how we here in the Danish Parliament should use Danish tax dollars. And for every case we have here in the Chamber, it is becoming increasingly clear that we have left too much of our sovereignty in the hands of the European Union. Now it is about unemployment benefits, but it could also have been child benefit or su or many other areas. In New Citizens we are not a protectionist party, nor do we have any objection to foreigners coming here to work, but why is it that Danish tax dollars have to finance this labour supply? There is simply no rational argument for this, and we will, of course, fight it. However, we are in favour of the specific motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152130	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, so the next one is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152136	Thank you. The rights granted by EU legislation to Danish benefits are today far too generous, because it is not fair that a few hours of study work can give the right to Danish su. It is not sensible to send the children's check home to your foreign children after a short stay in Denmark, and it is unhealthy that you can take high Danish daily allowances home to Bulgaria, where it extends to a lavish lifestyle in pomp and splendour with champagne and caviar. And in that light, indexing is a mild and sensible instrument. This whole discussion also shows somewhere that when virtually all parties at Christiansborg agree that the European Union must not develop into a social union, it is already too late. The European Union has become a social union. That's what this problem shows. The slide has long begun, and in this respect it is of little use to sit down on your hands and hope that the European Commission will suddenly listen out of the blue to what Danish politicians and the Danish people think, just as it is no use wanting Denmark to be part of the core of the European Union, where you cannot then say no to this type of federalisation. So the choice is, of course, to show solidarity with the Danish taxpayers and to show solidarity with pioneering countries such as Austria, which dares to challenge in this area, or to show solidarity with the European Commission. There the Liberal Alliance chooses the first and that is why we would like to vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152311	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152314	After all, the rapporteur and I have a certain history together, and I have seen the developments that the Liberal Alliance has had on the EU issue, and I am curious about where you are now. From being quite an EU-critical party, in the recent period, it went to being a much more EU-friendly party and to being somewhere in between. This is how I can see it immediately. After all, the train is running, the EU train is running, and there is no illusion that there will be less union, that you will suddenly have a narrow Europe that will again be about free trade and the free movement of goods. There's no sign of it. No, it will be more union, it will be more harmonisation and it will be more power for the European Union. If you just have to accept it, or if there is to be a time for LA, you will have to say: here and no longer; we can have a better track, for example. by standing outside or with an EU in two tracks? What does the Liberal Alliance think about this question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152417	It is just before I am tempted to return the question, because I know that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, if anyone is an expert in telling us what the policy of the Liberal Alliance is. But I would now like to give it a try anyway, because for what the rapporteur says, I would like to say that, overall, I agree with the basic analysis. But what the rapporteur asked me about, that is, if there is not a time when the Liberal Alliance says 'here and no longer', I will say 'yes, we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution'. That's one thing. The second question is whether the Liberal Alliance believes that Denmark would stand stronger and better and more freely outside the EU. To that is the answer: No, I find that difficult to see at this stage. I find it hard to see what an alternative that would be. And my confidence that the European Commission will treat Denmark particularly well if we resign is zero. I think they're gonna do everything they can to make us feel better. And then we have to recognise that some of the ideas, some of the principles, some of the things that were enshrined in the European Community, are of immense benefit to Denmark, and therefore membership of the European Union also continues to benefit Denmark, despite the fact that there is a development in the European Union that I do not like either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152519	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152520	It can be said that the European Community is absolutely not the European Union. There are a large number of powers which the European Community and the European Union do not share. But there is a difference between being against and saying: yes, we wish it would go the other way, but now it is going this way, and we must then just accept that. That's what I'm wondering. Is it a common defence, is it a banking union, is it a financial pact? One thing is that you can say that you are opposed to it, but at some point you have to make up for yourself, that if there is a train moving in this direction and there is no indication that it is going to contain other wagons, do you have to jump on that train, or would you actually stand better by not accepting these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152603	I'm trying to find an appropriate analogy with transport. I will put it this way that there is a train running and sometimes it is going the wrong way, and then Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's suggestion that you get off the train and walk around barefoot and get your feet ruined instead. I feel a bit like this: I find it difficult to see what the alternative is to try to influence the European Union, among other things. By saying no to this type of thing, among other things. by doing what Austria does and saying that we are now saying no, and then we have to take the case that is now coming. But just getting out of it all, I don't think I'm gonna create a better alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152644	Another request has just been received from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt on a brief note.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152647	From here, I should like to express my warm thanks for the European Union's line, which Mr. Alex Vanopslagh represents. I also remember with great pleasure how we jointly secured the Danish legal reservation. And in this way, one can at least glimpse an EU resistance on the part of the Liberal Alliance. I think that is a good thing. However, what led me to speak was the wording which Mr von der Vring spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Alex Vanopslagh used, namely that if we had to choose something else, the Commission would do everything in its power to make us feel bad. I agree with that very much, but I would like to hear Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's assessment of what it really is for a community that will make others feel that way, that is to say, if you resign from this club, you're not just signed up for all brotherliness and friendlyness, no, you're an opponent, you're one who needs to be squealed and canyoned. Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that it's a particularly pleasant club to be a member of?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152752-2	I believe absolutely that the benefits of joining the European Union exceed the challenges and disadvantages, but I have always thought, and will continue to believe in the future, that one of the challenges of the European Union is that it is precisely the type of local community that does not have a sufficient look at the diversity and autonomy of the countries. And there I think the questioner and I are in complete agreement. We may then disagree a little on the methods and the degree and extent of the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152826	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152827	I have to say that, for my part, I regard Denmark's independence as the real errand. And the fact that you accept to be one in union, where you are being trodden as a country, is very much against me. But let me just ask the rapporteur if he does not agree that the great advantage for Denmark in economic terms is not that Denmark is a member; it is that the EU is there, that is, that Danish companies can now export to 26 other countries in a whole. This is not where we send the Minister for Employment or other Danish ministers to sit there and, moreover, do not do what we would probably like to do much of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152906	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152911	Thank you for that and then we are done with the rapporteur's series. We just need the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204152922	Thank you for that, President. I think I'll start where mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen stopped by train. Because if you take a train and you find out it's going in the wrong direction, you get off at the first station and don't go to the end of the line. That is what is happening with the EU train. You have gone on and, if you do not get off in time, you go on to the end of the European Union, which is a common European Union nation, where we have given up a great many of the opportunities, the rules, the laws and the independence that we have in Denmark. This is one of the tracks where you really have to admit that many continue to the end station, but in the Danish People's Party we have chosen to say that we should not be involved in this. We gotta get out of here. Looking at what is happening in the European Union, it is a little strange that the European Council, before brexit, had decided to allow Member States to index welfare benefits, such as social security. children's allowance, daily subsistence allowance, etc. It was so much dependent on Britain staying in the European Union, but when they insisted that they should have their brexit, the European Council says: No, no, the other countries should not be allowed to have that opportunity to index social benefits. It was such pressure on Britain that, after all, they could be allowed to do so if they stayed in the European Union, and then they had to give it to the other countries too. However, when Britain failed to sneak and they stuck to their own position that they wanted to leave the European Union, the great gentlemen and ladies down in Brussels, down in Germany and France, decided it was probably the two countries with Mr. Emmanuel Macron and Mrs Angela Merkel, who are at the forefront of the whole process of removing that rule. Then it shouldn't be like that. In any case, Denmark should not have that option, nor should there be any other countries that should be able to index. They're jerking every other country again. Then the government comes along well enough and says, and so did the previous government, that they are working for us to index the daily allowance and that they are working for us to have the opportunity to index child pay and protect social rules. However, we cannot do this because the European Union says that we must not. We need to comply with EU rules. And most parties here in the Folketing are EU-friendly parties, so when Mrs Merkel in Germany and Mr Merkel in Germany... Emmanuel Macron in France barks, puffs the Danish EU parties. That is actually the result of it. One submits once and for all to the big bad EU: at least Denmark should not be allowed to have any autonomy; they should not be allowed to decide for themselves. But if you don't take a test case and find out what something is like, you won't get anything. That is why the call is for you to take a test case on this and say to the European Union: we simply do not want to do this; Denmark decides on its own daily allowance. We must take a case before the European Union and see what the European Union thinks of it, instead of just saying: no, we may not, because when the European Union says that we must not, we must not, and then we must not try to. I've always learned from the child of that maybe also why I've been out on the labour market for a long time before I got into the Parliament that you should try to achieve what you want and if you don't try, you won't achieve anything. So instead of fighting for the cause you want to get through, you can sit in a corner and just say: Kuk, kuk, boo, we won't achieve anything with that. And that's what's happening in this situation. This also means something in relation to the new rules, which will probably also come when the period of unemployment benefit for foreigners is reduced, so you only have to be 1 month in Denmark to have the right to take home six months' daily allowance if you are looking for a job. This means that Bulgarians can come to Denmark for one month, and if they have otherwise earned daily allowances in Bulgaria, they can receive daily allowances and live as counters and barons if they go down there for six months. They pay little for being a member down there and earning a daily allowance, and the daily allowance is also so high. This is only equivalent to 6,900 Danish kroner. They have cheaper goods, cheaper purchasing power, cheaper rents and everything. And then the minister says that it is for those who have been here in Denmark and that they have formed family. No, those who take the money to Bulgaria and look for work there have not established a family in Denmark. We have quite a few Poles in North Jutland who have brought the family, including Romanians, and they could never dream of going to their homeland and looking for work. They're staying in Denmark. Here they have better relationships, and they have brought the family and everything, and when they have done so, they do not go to the country from which they come to seek work again. The minister must also be able to hear that it sounds a little strange. I fully understand the Danes who go out and want work, but as I said earlier, there are no Danes who go to Romania to work for 40 DKK. At least they should be a member of the Enhedslisten if they do, and I don't even think they could do that, because some of the hardest trade unionists are there, so they wouldn't do that at all. So it's kind of weird. However, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance and New Citizens for their support for this proposal, and I was also able to hear that Conservatives were very positive, but once again it is this EU law that comes into play, and if you had not been bound by your views on the European Union, Conservatives would also have agreed to it here. The funny thing is that it had most parties it had SF and the Social Democrats too, if not there were these stupid EU rules that spoil it all. However, I would like once again to call on the government to take the chance, to take a test case and to test what the European Union is saying if we now take a hard fight and say that we have to settle this once and for all: do we have any self-determination or do we not? If we simply say that we must not because of EU rules, then we have no self-determination and then we are on the wrong track. Then we have missed the opportunity to achieve something in advance, because then they will say in the European Council: Denmark is whining a little, but they also say that they must not because of EU rules, so we do not have to take them seriously. That's what's happening. Surely nobody in the EU takes the Danish Government seriously if you do not take some test cases if you do not try to see how far you can go and stick to the self-determination that we need to have and say to the EU: keep your hands off this; it is close democracy and subsidiarity principles, and you should not interfere with that; we have our own rules. That's where we're going. However, I would like to thank you for a very good and exciting debate and thank you for the many positive expressions that have, after all, come from most parties. Even from the government there have been positive statements, and thank you for that. I think we have had a very good debate which has shed some light on the problems that exist with the European Union in these matters. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204153717	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204153736	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204153753	Thank you. The proposal that we are discussing here today is about compensation for property loss due to noise from the Air Traffic Control Station Skrydstrup. The background to the proposal is Denmark's fighter aircraft, which is of major importance for the safety and security of the Danes, also in the future. Our F-16s have taken off and landed from Skrydstrup since 1980, and in a few years they will be replaced by new and modern F-35 fighters. To start by putting the noise here in context: the fighter planes fly twice a day Monday to Friday, but only once. In addition, for example. flights with the rebuttal capability in connection with the exercise of Danish sovereignty, including: in the situations where we have to assert Danish airspace because foreign aircraft cross our borders. It is primarily when the planes take off that there is noise. Each F 35 makes more noise than F 16. However, the plant from which the aircraft fly is moved further away from the citizens, so that part of the noise experienced with F 16 today is not experienced in the future, just as the retraining of pilots will take place in the United States, and therefore there will be fewer flying hours in that account compared to the current F 16. When the new F-35 aircraft are fully phased in, Skrydstrup will form the frame in approx. 1 000 public jobs. This is also likely to have a positive impact on the area, including the impact on property prices in the area. The defense must be good neighbors. This is also the reason why home owners around the flight station will be compensated for the additional noise caused by F 35. That is why a political agreement was reached in the autumn on compensation for aircraft noise. The agreement has been concluded between the Government and the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. A large majority of Parliament's parties are therefore behind the compensation scheme and want the neighbours of Flying Station Skrydstrup to be compensated for the additional noise caused by the new fighter aircraft. The legal assessment is that the increase in noise when replacing F 16 by F 35 generally does not exceed the so-called neighbouring limit of tolerance. This means that the defence in general is not legally responsible for compensation. The compensation is therefore offered solely on the basis of a political desire to compensate the citizens concerned. However, the agreement does not preclude citizens from bringing an individual action for damages before the courts if they disagree with the legal assessment. This is true in this case, as in all other cases of the same nature. As has been said, there has been a political desire to go further in the compensation of citizens than the legal assessments provide. Once again, we must remember that fighter planes have been flying in the area for decades. That is why it is not new that there will be flights. The new thing is, they have a different noise pattern. The agreed scheme means that the 120 most noise-related dwellings are offered a voluntary purchase. However, there are citizens who want to stay, and they can then choose to recover the cost of noise insulation of their homes without an upper financial ceiling, but based on the noise reduction itself. Alternatively, they may choose to receive a cash payment of DKK 140,000. In a larger zone of approx. 1,500 homes, where noise nuisances are thus reduced, will be able to choose between covering the cost of noise insulation or receiving a fixed amount of DKK 70,000. If you choose noise insulation, there is no economic ceiling again. It will depend on the number of decibels to be dimmed. So there is a variation in the amount here, depending on how much noise a dwelling is exposed to. This also means that there is individual treatment for citizens. In addition, the model also offers a number of options. The choice of form of compensation as a citizen has ten years to make. You can choose to get noiseproof immediately. This will also mean a dampening of the sound of the current F-16 aircraft. Or you can choose to wait until the F-35s arrive and operate before choosing between noise insulation or cash. In the so-called red zone you can choose noise insulation or cash and then still be offered buying. The model is designed in this way precisely because the citizens are different and have different wishes, just as there must be a chance to change their minds. Here I would like to emphasise that the Ministry of Defence does not, of course, intend to flood the housing market with cheap housing. Nor will it be in the interests of the Ministry itself. The model also includes the establishment of an aircraft monitoring system which will show the measured flight load. If the measurements for F 35 differ significantly from the calculated aircraft noise load, the neighbours will be offered a recalculation. Well, it looks quite different when the F 35 starts flying, then the neighbors' case will be looked at again. With the model proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution here, the idea is that citizens should be compensated for any loss of property value. With this model, as I said, there will be a great risk that citizens will be significantly worse off than with the model agreed by a broad majority in the Folketing. It may well be that it will ultimately be a cheaper model of defence, but I do not think it is a better model, as it does not equally honour both my, defence and conciliation parties' desire to be good neighbours. The model agreed by a political majority comprises 1 600 dwellings and contains a high degree of choice and recalculation, as I have just explained. Against this background, I must inform you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154412	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154416	Thank you to the Minister for a very good review, I think. It seems to me that we are all on the side of the citizens and those affected, because it is a balancing act, on the one hand, to have a strong defence that has modern and up-to-date equipment, but, on the other hand, to ensure that the people who have bought and lived in their houses can, of course, continue to do so. The Minister mentions this in that we have a broad agreement, and I would like to sign for that, but if it is the case that the Minister is in favour of reopening that agreement and extending the red zone, then I think we are in favour of it. So if the way the Minister expressed himself was an invitation to a cup of coffee and a conversation about whether we can expand the red zone so that more can be included in it, then I think it is very positive. So will the Minister clarify that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154507-2	I can say that I always like to drink coffee, but the model that has been made is based on the noise to which you are exposed as a citizen. That is the starting point for it, and that is why I see no reason why we should start reopening that agreement. But I must say at the same time that if the noise pattern turns out to be quite different from the one on which the agreement is based, then there is a reason for re-discussion. However, I think it is fair here that the model should be fair both to the citizens who are exposed to noise, but also to all the Danes who we are asking to pay for this noise compensation, and that is why I believe it should be based on the noise pattern to which we are exposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154553	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154554	We agree with that. It is extremely important that Denmark has a modern and up-to-date defence, but also that the people who live around the installations can continue to live there. I am just not entirely convinced that the limit that has now been set between the red and yellow zones is one hundred per cent nail-proof. What makes the Minister so firm in his position that it cannot be moved so that more people could enter and get the full compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154621	You can actually move the borders, but they are set where they are set to pay for the increased noise to which citizens are exposed. So it is not just caught out of thin air that borders are set because the money we spend in this agreement is going to be spent on those who are exposed to the noise. That is why I think it is fair to say that if it turns out that the noise pattern is quite different from what is provided for in the agreement, then we should drink coffee so much. But you also have to put the line somewhere, and there will always be some people on the other side of the line who will complain, no matter where the line is put.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154701	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154704	Thank you for that, President. I think the Minister is well aware of the views of the Danish People's Party that from the start we would actually have wanted a transitional zone, an orange zone where there was a reduction in benefits, of compensation. I think the Minister remembers this, including during the negotiations. What lies in it is that the more information that comes on this matter, the wiser you will of course always be on it, and during the consultation on the same subject we also had this up here. Four homes had entered the red zone, and I asked how many others are on the border like this. There is also the fact that noise has such a strange tendency to wander in terrain. There may be two houses with perhaps a few hundred metres away, where noise is perceived differently, because there is something with terrain that means that you are not affected by noise in the same way. But will the Minister be prepared for us to perhaps look at whether we could create a transitional zone? This is what the Danish People's Party has always wanted, that is to say, that you could have such a descent zone, instead of that there is the strict limit from DKK 140,000. for 70,000 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154819	Thank you. And then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154820	It is the case that if you as a citizen choose to have noise insulation, it will mean that those who live close to the red zone will have more noise insulation than if you move further away from the red zone. So there is Everyone is not treated the same, but the noise insulation is based on how much noise one is exposed to. Compared to the four extra homes that have entered the red zone, this is an expression of the fact that the model is based on what noise is expected to be exposed to. Some homes were located outside the red zone in the first calculation, but by recalculation it was found that they should be within the red zone. I think that is an expression of the fact that not only do you cross your arms, but if someone is estimated to be exposed to this noise, they will be moved in. I think that is what should be the starting point for an agreement and the policy we are doing here, in other words that it is about what is exposed to noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154926	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204154926-2	Well, I didn't quite understand what the minister said, that is, the fact that those who lived close to it got more noise insulation than those who lived farther away. If you get noise insulation for DKK 70,000, you get the same noise insulation, whether you live right on the border or live 1 km away. The result is the same. You get exactly the same noise insulation for the DKK 70,000. You don't get any more noise insulation just because you live near the border. A carpenter or a craftsman can't give any more. The price is the same, whether you live close to or farther away. No individual measurements have been made on these houses, and that's just a few. It's a program you've figured it out, so the noise is probably that way in that house. There are no figures for each dwelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155015	Yes, please! Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155017	It is, after all, the recognised calculation model by which noise is calculated. Compared to the compensation model, it's not 70,000 kroner. You can choose to get DKK 70,000. But if you choose noise insulation, there is no upper ceiling. Maybe it'll cost $100,000. noise insulation of the houses adjacent to the red zone. Or maybe it's more expensive. It'll be different. The starting point is to reduce decibels so as to live with tolerable noise. There are no economic limits to it and therefore there is individual treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155055	Thank you. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155058	Thank you for the floor. After all, the motion for a resolution has been tabled because the Minister has said in the past that there is no legal basis for citizens living in the Yellow Zone who are told by independent people, in other words real estate agents and others, that their property has fallen in value, to have an independent assessment which also has an impact on how they are compensated. That is why we say in the new citizens: let us now ensure that the legal basis is there. We can add to the current agreement or amend the current agreement so that those in the yellow zone who are told today by banks, financial institutions, real estate agents that they are going to suffer a loss of value or have already suffered a loss of value because of the fact that this investment has been made are compensated. Now the Minister says that you will be put at a disadvantage by having the opportunities you have today to have an opportunity to have an independent assessment, which is what lies in the motion for a resolution, that is to say that the citizens will be put at a disadvantage. Can the Minister explain how to be disadvantaged by having an opportunity also to have an independent assessment if you do not think that what you have got is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155211	You can't take on liability unless there's liability. It is not the kind of thing you choose, i.e. whether you think you are responsible or not. The assessment is therefore that there is no general liability for compensation as a result of these noise nuisances. It can then be said that it may ultimately be a court that has to assess it, but we cannot just decide from the political point of view that we are now responsible for compensation. So that is the starting point for the model that has been chosen. On top of that, if you are entitled to compensation, you will be compensated on the basis of taking into account the threshold of tolerance of neighbouring law. It's because planes are already flying. This means that there is already noise in the area. Therefore, it will be the gap between it and up to the more noise one is exposed to. There is therefore the assessment that the model on the table will be more profitable for the majority of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155317	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155318	Excuse me, but what the Minister is saying is simply black. It is we here in the Folketing who adopt the legislation, so if there is no possibility of compensation in the legislation, then it is we who are responsible for adding to the agreement or amending the agreement. The agreement now before us has been politically adopted. That is also what the Minister says to justify the fact that you cannot act differently. That is why New Citizens say: let us now make a political addition to this agreement which allows the people who are now in the border zone, in other words in the yellow zone, to have an independent assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155358	What Mrs Pernille Vermund is asking is whether you are liable to compensation. The fact that it is not the legal assessment that you are liable to compensation cannot simply be decided that you want to compensate citizens. That is why, on the basis of a political assessment, a political majority has wanted to make an agreement, in which, at least in the case of the majority of citizens, it is the assessment that goes further than having applied for compensation for the additional noise to which you are exposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155432	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155435	Thank you. As the Minister for Defence is probably well aware, we on the Enhedslisten have a very thorough solution to that noise problem, and it is about not getting those fighters at all and spending the money on it. In relation to the parties that have made the agreement, I would say that we have also had visits from the neighbours in the area, and there we can see that they are not quite happy that there is this sharp distinction between the red zone and the yellow zone. Because it is good that there will be the opportunity to buy the houses in the red zone, but if you live right outside in the yellow zone, you are in a more difficult situation. And what the neighbors are asking for is a more graduated model, and I still think it is a little strange that in the conciliation circle we have not been able to find anything that responds to it in a slightly better way, where it levels out a little more, so that there is not much difference. Because I think that it is possible, of course, to do something that modulates it a little more if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155540	First of all, I would like to say that it has ended up being a very large model of noise compensation, and it has grown significantly. This is not least due to the fact that Enhedslisten focused on the noise challenges associated with the acquisition of F 35. I think it would be to the credit of Enhedslisten to have focused on it.A general observation is that I think that, wherever you set a limit, when there are some citizens who need money, it would be really a pity for those who live right on the other side. They'll think you should just take them with you, and then you can keep moving the border. I see it as a fact that there is actually discrimination in that there is, after all, the possibility of noise compensation, i.e. noise protection for one's housing, and that is an individual assessment. It is based on what is practical for a home you live in, how much noise pollution there is and what it takes to reduce noise insulation in order to reduce this noise. One thing is to get cold cash in hand, and I think there are probably many who want that, but the starting point here is that citizens living in the area should like to stay, but should be able to live there despite the increased noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155651	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155652	First of all, I would like to thank you for recognising that we have addressed this problem. I would like to say that I also think that a great deal has happened since the former rapporteur for the Left, Peter Christensen, would not even recognise that funds should be provided for noise reduction. There I see that the conciliation parties and also the current government have moved so much that it is now being brought forward. I still think there's the problem with the one pulling the line. When you draw only one line and when there is red and yellow zone, there is the difficult problem of whether you can be bought out or not. The houses are very close to what you call the orange zone down there, that is, right on the border. So I still think that it would be sensible if the parties could look at something that smoothed it out more. This proposal could also be an approach to it. Is this something that the Minister can address in some way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155740	I have to say that I think it is already in the model, in that the wish is that the citizens should remain. This means that they must be spared the increased noise caused by F 35. This is why they can opt for noise insulation and they will be treated differently, so that for those closer to the red zone it will obviously require more noise insulation than it will if you live at the extreme, where it may not require anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155812	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204155821	The debate on Denmark's procurement and placement of new fighter planes is an important debate, so we thank New Citizens for focusing on it with this resolution. The debate is on the one hand about Denmark's security. That is why we have fighter planes in Denmark. We want to take an active part in the world's hotspots, and then we need to ensure the enforcement of sovereignty when foreign powers violate our air space. On the other hand, the debate is also about Danish defence being a good neighbour. When buying and placing the F-35 aircraft, we take care of both, both our security and our good neighbourliness. The location of the new F-35 aircraft, which is one of Denmark's largest investments ever, is based on a broad political majority and not least because of a wish from Haderslev Municipality, which with its location secures 1,000 state jobs locally. There have been fighters in Skrydstrup since 1980 and with the new aircraft put into service in 2023, the volume of flights will be virtually the same: two daily flights, but the new aircraft are making more noise and that is why it has to be compensated for. For social democracy, it is important that the defence is good neighbours, and that is why we have worked to find a fair model that is fair to the neighbours and to the rest of society. A broad agreement therefore provides a total of 250 million. kr. for compensation for 1,600 neighbours and for noise protection. In fact, it is ten times more than what the previous government proposed. As the Minister mentioned, the agreement means that there are 120 homes in the red zone which are offered voluntary buying, noise insulation or a cash compensation of DKK 140,000, while the rest, namely approx. 1,500 in yellow zone, can get a compensation of DKK 70,000. or noise insulation of the home. If noise insulation is chosen, as the Minister said, there is no financial ceiling for the individual dwelling. There is also the fact that you do not have to decide immediately. The offer of purchase in the red zone, noise insulation and compensation is valid for 10 years from the entry into force of the Construction Act. So you actually have time to try to assess your own home in terms of noise when the new F-35 aircraft arrives. In addition, there will also be a monitoring system that measures how much the aircraft actually make noise from the flight load. And if you're a neighbor, you can recalculate the noise in the home if you think you're going back to or into the red zone. This means that once it has entered into force, and if you do not think it has been a reasonable measurement, you can get a new measurement, and then you are actually entitled to get back into the red zone. It would also be the Minister's point to the disadvantage for some neighbours if it were an agreement on what New Citizens are proposing, namely to measure the impairment due to the aircraft coming. For example, it will. be for those in the red zone, because if it was the impairment, it would not be certain that they could have them bought up. That agreement won't cover that. So that is all in all why we do not support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160242	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160249	Thank you. First of all, full support for us to have a strong defence, and that commitment is part of the support of the New Citizen. I am sorry that the Social Democrats, a government-supporting party, are highlighting something that is factually wrong with this proposal. What lies in the proposal is that those who are in the yellow zone have an opportunity to get an independent assessment beyond what they get under the current agreement. Specifically, I can mention a man who visited the Defence Committee the other day. He says he has to refinance his house next year. He's had an assessment of two different real estate agents, both of whom say his house is worth nothing. He can't refinance. He only has one option, and it's a foreclosure. What's it gonna do to this man that, after 2023, he's gonna have a long time after his house's foreclosure and he's sold his house, and he's got no penny left on his pocket, and he's gonna be able to assess whether the house had the value loss that the bank thought it had? What's it gonna do for that man?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160352	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160354	I would say that that example has nothing to do with that noise. It doesn't have anything to do with the plane coming either. It's another situation you get into. And then it's been evaluated by two different people. Anyway, I have to say that when I sold my apartment, I got three ratings, and they were very different. So it's different from human to human when you get your home assessed. And even though we are already beginning to say that they have lost in value, we cannot see it in the assessments. I have seen a table showing that what they have lost is not at all where it has now been decided that F 35 should be. So that's another situation we're in right here. It is, of course, regrettable that the man cannot take a new loan, but it has nothing to do with this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160441	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160443	The rapporteur must then explain this to the man who was in the Defence Committee the other day to explain his situation. The fact is, he's not alone. There are plenty of homeowners just up the red zone, and they tell us that the loss of value that real estate agents, banks and mortgage banks are told that their houses have suffered because they know that there is an increased noise impact is real. Instead of politicians having to decide what this has to do with economic consequences, would it not have been more reasonable to say that those who are in doubt will have the opportunity to have an independent assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160522	Those in the red zone, where there is the most noise, get an offer that their homes will be bought up. The rest is outside the noise zone. And then they are said at this stage that they have already lost in value. As I said before, I have seen a schedule of which you cannot see that something had lost in value so far. One must be honest and say that now there is a lot of noise around that there is just F 35. Some measures have been taken to enable noise insulation, etc. etc., so I actually believe it. Once it is established, we must see how and what it looks like. But the preparatory work that has been done, I think, is a good offer. Therefore, we should actually say that it is not necessary for us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160612	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160614	Thank you. I should like to hear from the rapporteur how the Social Democrats feel about perhaps looking a little more at a more smooth transition from red to yellow zone, which the Danish People's Party has actually wanted. I know that the Danish People's Party has been part of the agreement, and of course we stand by it, but we have also always pointed out that we wanted a smoother transition. After all, there are some people who have got a little caught up, and we also know that for all the homes along the red zone, no noise measurements have been made individually for each dwelling, and that can also be important. But how does the rapporteur feel about choosing to have noise treated from 3 to 5 dB if you are in a yellow zone and from 3 to 10 dB if you are in a red zone can do that instead of being 250 million? kr. Maybe it's more like 400 million. kr. Because there is no offer for each housing, so we do not know how much it might cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160723	Now I do not know how to measure noise or anything like that, because I do not have the skills to do so. But what has been done around the whole red zone and the yellow zone is something that experts have been involved in, that is, people who know about this. I'm convinced that even if we made another zone, it would just take some new zones. I think if you had built five zones, there would be some who were unhappy with the zone they were placed in. I am almost convinced of that. I mean, we're like people. Maybe I'd be vulnerable to those things myself. But there's something behind. It has been said that once the aircraft have been put in, we must try to look at it if there are some who are much more noise-laden than what is actually intended to be, and look at where they should then be located. I think that is a good guarantee. I don't believe in the fact that the more zones we make, the more satisfied people stay. I do not believe that, because they will always look to the nearest zone where they could or should have been located. You'll always run up to a new zone somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160825	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160827	Thank you. I get that. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur: during the ten-year transition period, when the planes arrive in 2023, are we prepared by the Social Democratic Party to say that we will have to make a noise measurement for each housing, to see what the noise level is like after they have been soundproofed? I know that sound can be soundproofed so you can barely hear anything. For example, I have. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. However, is the rapporteur prepared to make a measurement for each housing and not just such a general measurement for the whole airfield as has happened here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160914	Now we have been living in the area with F-16s since 1980, and they have also been making noise. F-35 aircraft are making more noise, and that is compensation for what needs to be done. I don't know what it sounds like when the F-35s get here. I have no idea what the F-16s sound like either, but they've been flying there since 1980. So I would like to say: let us now get started, let us adopt these things in the legislative proposal, and then let us work on it and see how it is when the planes come. Then it will be realistic and then we can look at what the situation looks like at that time. That's what we've been saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160947	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204160955	Thank you. It is, of course, a very interesting and also important subject which is being discussed here today with B 55. The proposal, as the previous rapporteurs and the Minister have mentioned, concerns the noise nuisances from Flystation Skrydstrup and possible additional compensation for a number of homeowners. As a starting point, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of the issue raised by the new citizens as authors of the motion, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution. We cannot do this because an agreement has been made under the auspices of the Defence Association, which New Citizens are not part of. It is, in fact, fair enough when you are a new party that has just entered the Parliament and there you have made an agreement on compensation. That is, I think, a fair agreement in a great many areas. Now I have also been a minister for an area, and it is the case that when a minister announces something, the automatic reaction, almost whatever is proposed, is from some to say: more and faster. And I would like to be honest and admit that I think Mrs Flyvholm also mentioned that what the Left was working on when we were in government, also in the light of the funds available and the parliamentary opportunities that were available, was worse than what the current minister has managed to agree on. When the current minister has succeeded in getting a better agreement, it is also about us having looked at things again and saying that it is fair to provide better compensation than the one we were working with, and we have managed to find the money. We have also succeeded in obtaining some concessions in some areas in relation to what the new government has proposed, which has done better, among other things. this with a cash compensation, so you equate the neighbors to the noise from the metro building with some of those who are exposed to noise in connection with the Flystation Skrydstrup. So a deal has been made, and we stand by it. But, of course, we are also listening to the criticism that must be voiced about the agreement and the consultation process that comes and is in full swing ahead of the legislative proposal we are going to adopt this spring. There I feel as rapporteur, and we in the Left have it, that if there are some things that need to be adjusted or changed, then we are discussing it in the conciliation and conciliation circle that is there. That is why we also have the expectation that, when the hearings are in, the Minister for Defence will convene meetings, and then we will have to look at whether we can improve what is in place and how, if it costs something, we will finance it. We'll see if there's anything wrong. And that is why it is very good for all the citizens and neighbours who now appear in the Defence Committee and send letters to the Ministry of Defence, and then the parties that have made an agreement meet and look at: Can we make the agreement we have made even better? The work of the Left is constructively involved. Because we are bound by the agreement we have reached and a defence settlement, we cannot support this resolution from the New Citizens' Party, but we are pleased that we have the opportunity to have the debate here today in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161300	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161304	Thank you for the explanation from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. I fully understand that, because the Danish People's Party is also included in the agreement. I just need to hear about something. Now we have had a lot of discussions, and Mr. Karsten Lauritzen is a defense rapporteur, but then he has a colleague, Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, who is quite opposed to what Mr. Karsten Lauritzen stands and says that at least externally he gives the impression of it. I don't know what's going on in the Left, but who's in charge of the defense policy and this thing about Air Force Skrydstrup? Is that sir? Karsten Lauritzen, who decides how it's gonna be, or is it mr. Hans Christian Schmidt? For according to Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt is going to have to do quite different things down in Skrydstrup, but is it the case that the Left will agree with Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, or has Mr. Karsten Lauritzen the whole Left's support for the line that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen mentions here from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161404	That's a good question, sir. Bent Bøgsted asks, and the honest answer is that I speak on behalf of the Left Parliamentary Group. I'm not in charge; it's the group. We have the rule in the Left that, exceptionally, a reservation can be made, and Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt made. In other words, he has said that he will not vote in favour of the agreement, and we have also informed the Minister for Defence that it is the entire parliamentary group of the Left, with the exception of one member. So, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt speaks for himself in this matter and votes for himself. The rest of the Confederal Group of the Left will vote in favour of the agreement. And yes, I wish it could be a united Left that supported this, but we therefore have a system of reservations. I myself have done so in individual cases. And Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt then took advantage of that, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161458	Thank you. And the next one, with a brief comment, is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161501	Thank you for the floor. And thank the rapporteur for being open to listening to the citizens who are now joining us and who are, after all, quite specific families. This is an agreement that has been reached and which, what should be said, hits the area and divides it into two zones. And even though the minister is trying to make it look as if it is an individual assessment, the fact is that when you come outside the house, that is to say out on the property, into your garden, and what else is, the noise compensation is not worth much. This means that when we talk about value losses on the property, it is different value losses depending on where the property is located. There will certainly be some in the yellow zone who think this is quite fine, perhaps even better than expected, but there are also obviously some who have already volunteered to say: we are so close to this, and it is not reasonable that we should be so heavily burdened with noise, and that we are told that the loss of value on our property is far greater than what we can get in compensation or from the possibility of noise insulation. So thank you to the Left for listening after all. The question then is whether the Left is ready to try to draw the other conciliation parties in the right direction if the overall picture shows that there is a need for an individual assessment of some individual housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161627	I will certainly not rule that out. But we are bound by the agreement that we have reached, and there is, of course, the fact that we are looking at the material that is coming in, and then we have a discussion which I suppose the Minister of Defence will call for when all the answers are available, because that is usually where a legislative proposal is being put forward. And in the four years that I have been Minister of Taxation, I have learned that sometimes reality cannot be predicted, and there are issues that have not been taken into account, and then you have to address them, and if there is a cost, you have to find the money. And I can see that the Ministry of Defence has so far addressed at least four houses where it had been miscalculated and I do not exclude that there may be such things. Having said that, I am not going to stand here today promising the neighbours gold and green forests, because I cannot, and I do not think that would be fair either. If there are things that need to be changed, we are open to discussing it, but we prefer to do so together once all the consultation answers have come in. And then I am sure that we will find, not a good solution, because there will be some who will not be satisfied, but as good a solution as possible, including the problems that may arise during the consultation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161736	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161738	Is it true that the answer I am now hearing from the rapporteur is that if the consultation answers show that there are, let us say, 10, 15 or 20 houses that are being hit harder by the value loss on their property as a result of this decision to invest in the new aircraft, then the Left would be in favour of making an addition to the agreement or amending the agreement so that those people do not get caught up and that they would be able to have an independent assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161817	I do not think there is any need to change any agreement, and we stand by the agreement we have made. However, that agreement must be translated into a legislative proposal and there will be changes in that bill, and the proposals that come in will have to be discussed. There may be all sorts of different situations, and there may also be some who own a land where some of the land lies in one zone and something lies in the other zone, so there may be all sorts of things that you need to look at, so we do that naturally. We would also do so with all sorts of other agreements and with all other legislative proposals. When I'm a little hesitant about this value loss, it's because I know it can be very difficult to figure out what a loss of value is and make the right assessment there. This applies to noise in Skrydstrup as well as in property assessments in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161902	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteur for being open to looking with fresh, undogmatic eyes at people who are being unfairly affected in this matter. We heard earlier that the Minister for Defence was so concerned about the fact that compensation rules are fixed and that, if you do not meet the conditions of compensation, you cannot obtain compensation. That's right, of course. It's like hearing a candidatus Juris talk. However, there is an opportunity to provide compensation outside the compensation rules. Compensation as a tool is not exactly a substitute. That is why I just want to know whether the Left, if we are in a situation where people are obviously unfairly affected, but cannot receive compensation under the legal rules, will be open to compensation as a tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204161955	We stand by the agreement that has been reached, and I have also heard the Danish People's Party do so. And then you have to look at what comes in, and you will do so in any other agreement, which translates an agreement into a real legislative proposal. I mean, I just feel like we have to be very careful about doing something special in Skrydstrup, because then some citizens will sit and say that they also have some noise from a motorway, from Copenhagen Airport, from Aalborg Airport, and they are entitled to the same good treatment. We must treat citizens equally. Before we completely change the rules that apply, we must at least have an overview of how to ensure that people are treated equally and how to ensure that the bill we print is financed. It may be sensible to print a bill so that people whose property is facing expropriation due to noise and other things can be given better treatment. Because if there's something I don't like and we don't like in the Left, it's unfunded promises. That's not what I'm hearing from Mr. Kim. Morten Messerschmidt's side, but at least you just have to see it in a larger context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162102	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162103	Well, I am not trying to get us to talk each other out, and I also agree with the rapporteur that it should be treated equally. I hear that is what the rapporteur says. However, I also think that we should be honest and say that we do not know exactly what the noise exposure will be. We do not know how everyday life stays in red and yellow zone etc. That is why it should be reasonable to say that if there are citizens who are affected differently than expected and who are therefore discriminated against in similar situations, then we, as legislators, must also be open to giving them a different compensation from what has been proposed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162147	That's how I've heard the Secretary of Defense in relation to this recalculation and the possibility of it. And then it's true that some people are running into this long before those planes get there. It's the same problem we recognize as when we have to build a highway. When's it coming? When do you make area reservations and other things? There we have some issues. I think you are doing yourself a favour as a legislator by looking at whether the rules in general should be changed. It doesn't belong to the Department of Defense, but to a number of other ministries. We in the Left are not at all reluctant to discuss this with the parties of the Folketing, in other words whether we should improve the rules in general. But if we do that, we also need to find out how to finance it. We must not just make promises that, when it comes to the matter, we cannot find the money to pay. Then we will have serious trouble with the citizens first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162235	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162243	Thank you for that, President. For many, it's a little awkward business we have here today. I fully understand the motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party, and we can follow very well what is in the motion for a resolution. I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party stands by the agreement we have reached. It has not yet been adopted. There may be consultation answers, and there can easily be changes to it, depending on what comes in. It's not like when you've made an agreement, you can't look at it. If there is anything that shows that it is inappropriate, then we must also be ready to look at changing it. That is also why we in the Danish People's Party actually wanted there to have been a transitional zone. Then we couldn't get it through. There has been a great deal of compensation in relation to what the previous government had proposed, and we are pleased about that too. There is also this noise insulation, where in the red zone you can get measured from 3 dB to 10 dB and in the yellow zone from 3 dB to 5 dB. What that noise insulation costs, we don't know either. It may well be that some have calculated it, but it is not intended for all properties. That is to say, instead of the 250 million. kr. may be that it ends up being a cost of 400 million. kr. for noise insulation if everyone chooses to have noise insulation. We don't know yet. What can cause some problems, as I see it, and as we in the Danish People's Party see it, is how this calculation of noise is made. After all, it is a model that has been laid out throughout the area, where you have some noise measurements in certain places. After all, noise is not measured in each housing. This can easily change, and it may turn out when these planes come and fly during the time when you can resume things, that there are homeowners who are surprised at how much noise they have, and there may be some who are surprised at how little noise they have. Because the noise has this thing about wandering in nature, depending on how nature is arranged. If there are trees or hills, it may help to make noise different from place to place, even if you are close to each other. So we are in the Danish People's Party of course excited when the planes really come and start flying, how noise development is, how people experience the noise in each place, whether the minister is ready to measure the noise in each home, or whether it is only a model that you add to it and on which calculations are made. It is, of course, somewhat unresolved, and that is one of the things we need to talk about in the conciliation circle. But there is no doubt in the Danish People's Party, as I said, that we would have liked to have seen that we had had a smooth transition from red zone to yellow zone, so it was not such a fixed point of intersection: boom, then you go down exactly here. Someone's close by. There are four homes that will be included, and I have then asked how many others are close to the border that really ought to be in the red zone right from the start. We will have enough answers to that before we are going to deal with the proposal. However, in the Danish People's Party we are open to changes in the whole area. If we had been allowed to decide everything from the outset, there would have been a degressivity zone: the longer you got away from it, the less the compensation would have to be. It may be difficult to satisfy everyone, but it is certainly not, as we would have liked, but this is far better than what was in any case below the noise compensation of the previous government. So I don't have to be smart about the price trends on the houses down in the area. There may be many reasons why price developments are rising or decreasing. I'm not gonna be smart about that, and I'm not gonna be smart about that noise thing. It is more those who live down there who feel it, and those down there who know what can speak about it. I am more used to the noise that is in North Jutland, and I also know the noise that is from Aalborg Airport, Flystation Aalborg. It's a little different. We have also had the F-16s up and there has also been noise. But it is again the conditions under which the airfield is situated that determine how annoying the noise is, and of course we must also take that into account. Then there will be some reasonable criticism of that, of course we, as politicians, must also be ready to see whether there is anything in the agreement that needs to be changed. I understand that too, if there is any reasonable criticism. As a starting point, of course, we stand by that agreement, but we would have liked to have a different one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162757	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162801	I would like to thank the rapporteur for being open to the fact that, should there be reasonable criticism of the agreement, we would like to take a look at it. After all, from my perspective, there has been reasonable criticism of the agreement. I agree that the consultation period has not been completed, but the people who have signed up both in the debate and participated in events in the area, who have, after all, discussed it here, those who have been to a meeting of the Defence Committee, have told about their own stories about ratings from real estate brokers and banks, etc., who say that they are going to suffer a loss of value or perhaps have already done so as a consequence of the decision to invest in these aircraft. Of course, this can be both the noise that will come in the future; it may also be that there is a risk that they will lose value if a large proportion of those in the red zone sell. There may be a lot of relationships in connection with this investment that's involved. I just need to be sure that if it turns out that the consultation answers show the same thing as the reports we have received so far will help to draw the conciliation parties in one direction then it is the rapporteur!), giving an independent assessment to some of those who are in the yellow zone today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162925	Speaking time is one minute to the first question. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204162929	Yes, it is not easy to control women when they have been given the floor; nor is it easy to control men when they are finally allowed to say something. But that's the way it is. To spell it out: I think absolutely the criticism that has come from the neighbours to Skrydstrup is reasonable, and it is also to take and feel. I fully understand the criticism that has been made. And what I meant by "if there are reasonable criticisms" is that when the 10-year period is opened and you start making new measurements, you also have to be ready to change the zones down there. But we already have the criticism that has now come, and I fully understand it, and we in the Danish People's Party also think it is reasonable criticism. It's just that it doesn't have to be misunderstood. I was almost afraid that Mrs. Pernille Vermund did. I hope that it is not the case that the neighbours of Skrydstrup have misunderstood the position of the Danish People's Party. We would have liked there to be a transitional zone where we could bring more. That is also why we have asked how many of those close to us should actually have been in the red zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163035	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163037	Thank you. It may be because DF has joined the agreement and is one of the conciliation parties and respect for it. It's the art of compromise. But now we are in a situation where more people have joined forces and have told us about situations which, to me, are unsustainable and which must be quite insensitive as a politician, so as not to take seriously. I would therefore just like to make it quite clear that, although we may not be able to support the resolution because we are part of the conciliation parties, the DF does not see that the matter is over here but that we are continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163121	DF does not believe that the case is over. And if Mrs. Pernille Vermund asks Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, then he also recognises that from the start I and the Danish People's Party have said that we want a transition zone. That's what we were working towards, but we couldn't get through that. However, we agreed to the agreement because, after all, there is a good compensation and we need to find a solution to it. But that does not mean that we have cut ourselves off from trying to influence the minister in the direction that the Danish People's Party would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163150	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163153	But if you look at the history of this combat aircraft purchase, I think some of what is interesting is that not so many years ago most parties in the conciliation circle actually agreed that such compensation would probably not even be necessary. Nor did the Danish People's Party think so at first, and it is very good that it has moved forward. However, I believe that the insecurity that many of the citizens in the area have experienced during that period has been extremely hard because you do not really know what you are facing, and I therefore believe that there is a desire to have as much clarity as possible, what should be said at the forefront as possible, and that it is therefore also a concern to try to do something right now and not wait too long. There I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflection on precisely this point in providing as much clarification as possible and as early as possible, also further in the course of these people who have waited quite a long time for the model that has now arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163252	There is no doubt that we must, of course, pay as much attention as we can to the citizens down there around Skrydstrup. But we also have to remember that Skrydstrup represents a very, very large workplace, perhaps the largest in Haderslev Municipality and in the Vojen area; I do not remember if it is 1,100-1,200 jobs, but it is at least very many jobs that are down there and I do not think that the neighbours want the flight station to be closed. That is not the point at all. It is just that they want compensation for the noise that can bother them. But we must always bear in mind that the alternative, if that were the case, was that the flight station should be somewhere else, and I have not heard anyone wanting that, and that is not the way we should go. So it is to take account of the fact that citizens, neighbors, can be taken into account in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163349	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163351	The reason I'm asking about this time perspective is because it's been a very, very long time, these people have been waiting for clarification. Now there has been more clarity, you might say, than there has been in the last very many years, but if you just postpone this discussion on whether you cannot grade it a little more in relation to the transition between red and yellow zone to later, then I think that those people will still be sitting away with that concern and insecurity, and that is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: was it not time to take the bull by the horns? If the Danish People's Party thinks what they are saying, then surely it is now also the time to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163432	If it is the case that you have information from the start, that is, if you know from the start how much the aircraft are loud and from the start know how it affects an entire area, it is always easier, but at the moment the aircraft are purchased, you may not know so much about how it develops. If you knew, perhaps you should have said from the beginning that they should have had a different location. I won't be able to rule that out. It is before my time as a defence rapporteur, but I just know that if you had to take into account everything that is before you start creating some establishment, you would probably not have got started with it, because that is not possible. There is information that we know first of all about how much the aircraft actually make noise when they can fly on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163528	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163539	Thank you to the new citizens for bringing forward this discussion, which I think is difficult and which the Radical Left finds difficult. Because here we have to strike a balance between the perfectly justified demands of residents close to Skrydstrup, in a situation where, of course, they will have increased noise pollution and will be affected by it and will have to be compensated for it, compared with the taxpayers who will have to pay the compensation, compared with the precedent we create for other projects around the country, where the state on behalf of the community makes some investments that affect the people who are • whether it is roads, airports or what it is • and therefore they must be compensated. The Radical Left is part of the defence settlement and has therefore also been involved in the discussions that have taken place here and, to put it bluntly, it has not been easy to find the right model. As Mr. Karsten Lauritzen mentioned that we had a much better model than the one on the table earlier. One of the radical fingerprints in this connection has also been that we are getting better communication so that people know when the noise is coming and they have the opportunity to take it into account, but it cannot be completely removed, and it is also quite clear that the homes close to them have a right to some form of compensation or compensation. Since we are part of the defence settlement, we will also say no to this resolution. We are behind the agreement we have now reached, but, like several other rapporteurs from the defence conciliation, we also reserve the right, of course, when we have had a consultation phase and when everyone has come back with their wishes and influences, to see if there is a need for adjustments. Because we recognise that it is a difficult exercise that we are in and that it is families and citizens that we are dealing with, as far as we can, and in it, it can be said that overall balancing that we must have must be taken into account. So, from this point of view, we thank you for the debate, but no thanks to the specific motion for a resolution, and I am sure that we will also be able to say in re-view to the proposers of a debate when the legislative proposal comes and we have had a consultation process here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163750	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163754	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for, like a few other parties, not being so determined that this is chiseled in stone, and that you are absolutely not wrong, but actually saying that there are some people who might get into a mess, and those people have not been overlooked; you are not just letting the state make such a mess of ordinary citizens, but you are actually listening. I would like to thank the rapporteur for that. Having said that, I would like to hear again and again in respect of the fact that the rapporteur's party is part of the conciliation parties on the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, once these hearings have come in and the consultation period has been completed, and if it turns out, as I suppose, that there are a number of citizens who are experiencing greater losses of value than would have been expected, then it will help to draw it in the direction of more people being able to obtain an independent assessment and hence the compensation for any loss of value.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163854	I do not really have the courage to promise or to lay down on how to adjust the agreement that has been made if necessary. I would like to promise that we will look seriously at all the proposals and the investments that are coming, but I dare not promise any specific citizens anything or a concrete approach to how to deal with this. As the Minister mentioned a little in his speech, it can be said that there are some models that have some advantages for some citizens and other models that have other advantages for other citizens, and that, therefore, if, if I may say, you change strategy or model, you can easily hit some others. So I'd be sorry to get stuck at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163933	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204163937	The proposal here does not mean that the agreement should be completely cancelled, but that, in recognition of the fact that some of the people living in the yellow zone seem to be more affected than others, we can say: let us now give those people an opportunity for an independent assessment; let us take this into account when making the bill, especially with a view to ensuring that the loss of value can already happen and that for those who have to refinance now and who are at risk of being in a really stupid situation, there is no safety net. Does the Radical Left accept that this is a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164013	These are quite relevant issues that Mrs Pernille Vermund raises here. Of course, what I do not dare to promise or can see through quite on the stand here from the platform is what the implications directly and indirectly will have if you do what the rapporteur proposes and whether it will draw the agreement in a completely different direction. So I dare not promise that, but I dare promise that we will listen and look at all the hearing answers and objections and the concrete answers received.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164044	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164053	Thank you for that and thank New Citizens for a proposal in which we in the SF support the good intentions in every possible way. When I started as a defence rapporteur eight months ago, my predecessor, Holger K. Nielsen, told me that sometimes as SFs you would wonder what you were really doing in this area. Because we are not part of the defence settlement, and that also means that we are not part of the agreement that has created the government's compensation model, but we actually think that it sounds like a really good idea for a start. It is very good that 250 million have been found. kr. to compensate for the political desire to compensate some citizens who have suffered a great deal from the noise, and to give them an option for compensation in various ways. We welcome that and we support it in the SF. But, of course, we are also open to the possibility of being included in such a discussion........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, we note, of course, that if a scheme had been drawn up based on loss of property, the 120 houses in the red zone would, for example, now, with the government's compensation model. I think it is worth pointing out when we take a position on this proposal, that the possibility of voluntary buying-in is not given the same opportunity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164237	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164243	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is, of course, a different situation when you are outside the agreement, but I am glad that the SF is willing to look at whether you can look at the situation in which the people who get stuck in this situation are in. I would just like to clarify: the proposal here is about those who live in the yellow zone, i.e. those who live in the zone where they can either have their house noise-insulated or receive compensation of the DKK 70,000. There we say: let us now give those who so wish an extra opportunity to have an independent assessment. This means, of course, that those who feel that they have actually received a little more than they might have thought they would get, will probably not get an independent assessment, while those who live very close to them and who can sense that there is something here that is not quite right, perhaps going to take advantage of the opportunity. It is just to make it clear that these are those who live in the yellow zone, and not those who are in the red zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164340	That is very well clarified and we understand it in the SF. But there we also rely on the government's compensation model to create this aircraft noise monitoring system, which allows for a recalculation if significant deviations are measured, and we would like to see that work before we enter into the discussion that you describe there. But we're open to it in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164402	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164404	Once we have the aircraft after 2023, we will have this opportunity to get a real assessment, but there are some of the families who live in the area who have already been on the field and say: we have to refinance in the meantime. And a possible loss of value as a result of this investment, they're left alone. For some, this may mean a foreclosure. This means that there really are families who have to leave house and home because they are trapped in a situation in which they have no fault but which can have major consequences for their fate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164444	We understand that, and we care about SF, just as you do in New Citizens, for these people and for what it means for their everyday lives, but we would like to see the legislation work first, or if nothing else at least see what comes of consultation answers, and then revise from that. It is, of course, with the reservation that we are not part of the agreement that has created this compensation model that the government stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164507	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204164520	Thank you very much for the floor. You could say this is a really, really long and very interesting story with all the aspects that lie in it. In view of the fact that we are not part of the settlement, I might almost be sickly. However, I think that there has been very good reason to take an interest in this and also in the noise dimension. Back in 2016, the then defence rapporteur on the Left said that there was absolutely no reason to worry about the noise. We had noted that in Norway approx. 1 billion kr. on noise compensation for citizens and neighbours, and we then asked what was intended in Denmark. There you'd just put 0 kroner. of to it at that time. It gave quite a lot to itself that it would be a problem, I thought, and that was not politically ready to deal with at the time. I think it has been a very, very great failure of those neighbors, and no matter what you think about the purchase of the fighter aircraft... we are from Enhedslisten's side against "I think that when you go out and spend in the vicinity of 66 billion. kr. on buying new fighter planes, also well can compensate the neighbors who are going to experience the noise in their near everyday life. I think you owe people that kind of thing. I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that this has actually happened now. I think it seems to me that this problem has been taken somewhat more seriously in the defence committee here in recent years. And the new government has also put much more money on the table than has been the case in the past. I think that is appropriate. So it's really good. But it is also very clear when we hear the neighbours in the area that you are not quite in line with this yet. I also believe that it is also necessary to consider that it is not enough just to be able to noise-proof, i.e. put in better windows, etc., because it is also a question of people being in their gardens, they can also hear the noise. It is also a matter of insecurity, because your house is so much less worth, and will you ever be able to sell it if you want to move? There's a lot of elements in this, and it's a lot of stress for people. We don't know how much these F-35 planes are gonna make noise either, but with what I've heard of them, I just want to say, they're making a lot of noise. I think that's just gonna affect people's everyday lives. It is therefore also reasonable to find a model that meets the neighbours in the area. For again: This arms purchase is seriously the biggest public investment in Danish history. And again: we are not politically behind it, but I find it difficult to see anything other than that we should not be able to find the extra money needed to at least compensate the people in the area. What the neighbours, who have formed a very sensible society, I think, is the need for modulation, especially for some of the homes that lie right in the divide between what is called the red and yellow zone. I think that would be very sensible, therefore, I can also see that there may be some sense in the resolution tabled by the new citizens. There is some technique about what we would like to have clarified in the course of the treatment here, but as I understand it, it is an addition so that the compensation model that is already in place remains as it is, but you will have another opportunity, if you wish, to assess the property and be compensated for the loss of value that you will then have. I think that can be a very sensible approach to it. So, as a starting point, there are some details that need to be clarified, but we can really see ourselves supporting this because it is an improvement for residents in the area. That will immediately be my take on it. Then, of course, we will have to get the details right during the course of the procedure. And, as I said, we are not burdened with the restrictive ties of defence conciliation either, so that is no problem for us. At any rate, I think it is really, really important that there is this debate on how to ensure better conditions for neighbours in the area. It is always the case, of course, if some are interested in discussing how to shut down the noise and save all the money, that we on the Enhedslisten are very open to shut down the battle airplane purchase, but I think that is an open invitation that we can leave behind. But in this particular case, I think it is a good thing that we are discussing this possibility. We're open to that. I should also welcome the alternative, which unfortunately could not be here, and say that they are quite in agreement with that assessment. Thank you for the floor and I look forward to having all the details discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165008	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165012	I would just like to express my thanks to the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which are two of the parties which are not included in the agreement, but which, unlike the SF, which is also not included in the agreement, actually say that it is quite reasonable for those who now say that they have been unfairly affected and really feel pissed off by the state's decisions to be given an impartial assessment. This does not mean that there are some new politicians who are giving a new assessment, but they are given an opportunity for an independent assessment. Thank you to Enhedslisten and the alternative for that. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165055	Thank you. Some of what I would just like to add in the slightly technical section, and which we would also like to discuss here in the process, is what lies in such an impartial assessment. Can we use some of the equipment identified by the neighbours and can we use some of the work that is already being set in motion in the red zone in relation to the property assessments? Can you use it and transfer it to a yellow zone? How are you supposed to make it so that it becomes a sensible way of doing it? There we have different questions, because I think it is important that it does not become too lenient and will depend on how good a real estate agent you just get to make an expensive assessment. How do you get a good and sensible system in this? So I'd like to hear a little more thoughts about that. But I think that is one of the things we can clarify even more thoroughly. In any case, I do not see it as a reduction in the possibilities for citizens; on the contrary, it should be an improvement in the possibilities for neighbours, namely to give more scope to what can be done, should it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165150	I just forgot to say in the past that, in relation to the ultimate solution, shutting down defence investments and shutting down fighter aircraft on Skrydstrup, it will not be with the support of New Citizens. It was just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165207	I find that disappointing. I think New Citizens owe you now. I have to say. But I guess it was expected. Nevertheless, I think it is essential to take account of the neighbours in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165220	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165229	Thank you very much, sir. President. A lot has already been said. We have also made this agreement from Conservatives. We very much acknowledge the resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party, which we very much appreciate. We are there in the process where we look forward to getting in touch with the hearing answers that are coming, and we shall have to look into the matter. One of the things that was really, really important to us throughout this was, of course, that the compensation scheme also includes the establishment of the flight monitoring system. After all, it is no secret that we think that everything has been bought, far too few planes. And that is why when the rest of the Danish Parliament recognizes it and I understand that now is on the way there will be more planes, more noise, and fortunately our quite excellent and talented pilots will have even more training hours. And that is why it is important that we also have the opportunity to return to the agreement and look at it once the consultation answers have been received, but also that we have the opportunity to wait these ten years to make a decision so that we can see how noise develops when the aircraft are actually here. On the basis of the fact that we have reached an agreement and that we are looking at the consultation answers, we unfortunately cannot back the bill, but we very much acknowledge it and are very much looking forward to negotiating the rest of this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165358	Thank you. No brief comments have been made, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165409	Thank you for the floor. The sound of NATO's aircraft is the sound of freedom for those parts of the world where citizens can enjoy their full rights and those parts of the world where NATO's aircraft can operate are almost perfect. But even if the sound of NATO aircraft is the sound of freedom, it can be difficult to live with if you are a neighbour of an air base. After all, we must recognise this and take it seriously, and that is why I am extremely pleased with the agreement that the Liberal Alliance reached in November last year. Some 0.25 billion has been set aside. kr. to remedy the noise nuisances, and I do not think that is greasy in any way, nor should I be honest in saying that in relation to the previous proposal. Now new citizens are putting forward a motion for a resolution which will apply to 1 500 properties which are not covered by the existing agreement. And there I have to say that it is, like Mr. Karsten Lauritzen has expressed, I am a little surprised that no funding has been given. We think that the problems in Skrydstrup should be taken seriously, and we have helped to reach an agreement where funding is indicated, but we also think that resolutions that should accommodate citizens should be serious. So I do not quite see the seriousness of putting forward a proposal in which the state has to bear an entirely unknown cost, for which there is not even a sketch for funding. How much could this amount be? What room for manoeuvre can that be within? Where's the money coming from? What should be downgraded? That is not in the proposal here. We are not in favour of the state taking on financial obligations without an analysis of the size of these obligations. Nor are we in favour of the exclusion of funding for public expenditure. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165700	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165703	For that reason, the Liberal Alliance should not have been able to conclude the original agreement either, because, compared to the original agreement, we do not know how many of the homeowners in the red zone choose to sell their houses to the state. And if the first homeowners sell their houses to the state, we don't know what that has to do with the rest. Nor do we know how many of those in the yellow zone choose to take advantage of the offer of DKK 70,000 or how many choose to use soundproofing. So you have made a budget and you have some expectation of how people will act, but we do not know what the total bill will be, because we do not know what choice the property owners make. When we in New Citizens say in relation to those who are in the yellow zone and who are very close to the red zone and who are some of those who have said that this is going to cost in relation to their housing value, that we think it is fair that we should give them an opportunity to get an independent assessment, it is after all in recognition that some people are suffering a loss of value. Is it really the policy of the Liberal Alliance not to compensate homeowners for a real loss of value on their homes as a result of state intervention in their daily lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165825	But we are in line with all the parties that have concluded the agreement. And what has been said by many rapporteurs is that the final and final words have not, of course, been said and that there will always have to be some adjustments if there are problems. However, we have indicated funding, and this makes our proposal different from this proposal, where there is no funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165850	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165853	We are dealing with an historic investment in fighter planes. We are dealing with an investment made for the freedom and security of citizens. We shall accept this jointly. Let's say this is worth it. With that investment, of course, there are also consequences for those who live close to them. Is it not only reasonable that those who live close to them should not only live in the red zone, but perhaps also those who are affected and who do not receive the necessary compensation, receive an independent assessment of whether their property loses value, whether they have to leave home and house?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165935	If you are a serious politician, is it not very reasonable that, at the moment when you are trying to sign up to an existing agreement and want to extend that agreement, you should just say hints at where the money should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204165951	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170014	Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing with a matter which does not affect so many people, but which, in turn, can have major consequences for the families affected. The agreement reached by a majority in the Folketing on noise compensation for the inhabitants of Skrydstrup has been criticised from many quarters for not being fair, for being too cheap and for having an excessive element of coincidence over them. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, in other words to ensure that it is not the lack of a legal basis for the Minister who stands in the way of correcting the injustices and to ensure fair treatment for all residents in the noise-stricken zones around the flight station. We would prefer an offer to all residents that they could have the opportunity to have their actual value losses assessed and compensation determined impartially and in concrete terms in each case. There is no majority in favour of this in the Folketing, and I have to say that I find it extremely insensitive to the families who are now facing an uncertain and difficult time. The other day we heard a concrete example of a man who is facing having to refinance his loans in the property. Then he probably can't get that now, when the noise diminishes the value of the dwelling. He can't sell without losses, and there's actually only the prospect of foreclosure. This is not a fair reading, and we believe that the resolution should remedy this. Unfortunately, there is no support for the motion for a resolution as it has been tabled, but I have heard in the debate that, after all, there is a movement in several of the parties behind the agreement and that there is also support and thanks for it from parties outside the agreement, and I am actually pleased about that on behalf of the people of Skrydstrup. These are people who have a lot at stake. If an amended agreement or a supplement to the agreement can ensure that at least part of the families that have now ended up on the wrong side of the zone fence are given the opportunity to get the value loss on their property assessed and compensated, then it is a big step in the right direction. And I'm not gonna let this thing go today. It has been shown that something can be moved when you hold onto it, so that we in the New Citizens' Party will keep the other parties up to the openings that have emerged today, so that we in Skrydstrup will also be able to feel that what has been said today expresses a real concern for the people we are dealing with here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170257	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170339	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister of Transport first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170346	Thank you for the floor, President. We are today debating motion for a resolution B 58, which requires the government to put forward a legislative proposal that abolishes the area reservations in the southern part of the transport corridor. The proposal is to be seen in the context of motion for a resolution B 59 on the abolition of the northern part of the corridor, which we will have to deal with at a later date. Transport corridors in the metropolitan area are area reservations that regulate the use of the areas so that future infrastructure facilities can be placed in as little conflict as possible with urban development. This ensures that social costs and interventions in the urban environment and landscape are minimised. I would like to emphasise that no decision has been taken as to whether a motorway should be set up in the Ring 5 corridor. There is an analysis of the corridor, where we are also looking at a number of alternatives to a motorway connection, and I will come back to that in a moment. The motion for a resolution before us is therefore aimed at abolishing the area reservations in the transport corridor and at abolishing any motorway plans, while preserving part of the corridor within a few metres for future energy infrastructure projects. The reason for the proposal is that the reservation has been in place for nearly 50 years and imposes severe restrictions on citizens and authorities in the municipalities concerned. In addition, the proposals by the proposers are justified by the fact that a motorway will lead to a traffic jump which will increase Denmark's emissions and thus make it more difficult to achieve the objective of reducing emissions of climate gases by 70%. When we look at the traffic challenges in the metropolitan area, all the indications are that in the coming years we will face challenges with congestion, especially the ring connections, if we want to ensure more capacity on the entrance routes. Unfortunately, collective traffic cannot solve all traffic needs, and the ring links in the metropolitan area have a relatively poor public transport service. That was also pointed out by the Tribulation Commission at the time. In addition to the light rail in Ring 3, there are no concrete plans for the expansion of high-quality public transport in the rings. That is why there is a fundamental need to look at the development of roads in ring links. However, this does not mean that the establishment of a motorway in Ring 5 is the only possible solution. A two-part analysis of the northern and southern part of the transport corridor is carried out. The study of the southern corridor has been initiated, including: to provide an overview of the location of any future installations. It also looks at the link between modes of transport, including the location of hubs with the possibility of switching between modes of transport, as well as an assessment of whether motorway bus lanes with stops and access to interconnections can give a traffic effect. In addition, access to and from super bike paths is assessed at co-deck sites. Finally, there is also an analysis of public traffic perspectives in the rings and whether the capacity and frequency of S-trains can have a traffic effect in relation to the location of nodes. The analyses were launched in the spring of 2019 as a result of the green conciliation circle with an agreement of 26 August 2016 on making funds available for road projects at Haderup and Ribe etc. agreed to discuss the organisation of a planning study on the Ring 5 corridor. The analysis of the southern part is supported financially by a number of surrounding municipalities and by the Capital Region. When the results are available in 2021, the Road Directorate may, on an informed basis, determine which parts of the corridor it is no longer relevant to maintain the reservation in. The study thus allows the parties to agree, and here I should like to mention that SF, as one of the parties in the Green Conciliation Group, does not support the study... can decide on the existing area bookings, including whether or not they can be abandoned, on an examined basis. Many opinions have been expressed over the years as to whether or not we should maintain the current transport corridor in Ring 5. There are just as many views on whether there should be a motorway in the corridor or whether the traffic challenges in the capital should be solved in other ways. I would like to stress once again that neither the government nor any other party's final position on and position on a motorway link in Ring 5 depends on supporting the ongoing analysis of the corridor. We in the government believe it is important that the decision on area bookings, whether northern or southern, is taken on a solid basis, and therefore the decision must await the analyses of the Road Directorate. Against this background, the government cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170918	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204170924	It is quite true, as the Minister of Transport says, that there has been this transport corridor, both the north and the south, has been very controversial over the years, over almost all the years in reality. It was, of course, part of the previous government's infrastructure plan, and I am of course in favour of the green conciliation circle now deciding to do this analysis. But I would like to ask the Minister of Transport how he intends to give priority to a possible Ring 5-South connection, even if, I admit, one is at the forefront of the analysis itself. But in the big picture it is not really more roads and more cars we need, I think, so if we're going to make this major change, including the green change, are we not going to think about it? I'm also thinking that now that you've decided to set up a transverse corridor, let's just call it that, a transverse light rail line in Ring 3, it must also be able to constitute some kind of alternative to this part of Ring 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171053	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171055	At any rate, I note that there are challenges with traffic across from the fingers of the Finger Plan, and that is why we need to find solutions and, as I said in my speech, there is a need to look at all options. I am also very concerned that we are looking at all alternatives, including public transport as an alternative, and therefore it is also important to me that the analysis has been extended in relation to what was the original plan. But the government has not decided whether to create a motorway in this area, but we are concerned about finding solutions to the traffic challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171145	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171147	No, because that is actually the opposite of what the Minister of Transport says. So what we have to find is not a collective alternative to highways, yes, we have to, but it is just as much about public transport as we have to invest in. That's what it says in the understanding paper. So the alternatives are public transport, and that is what we have to focus on. After all, it is not highways and more cars that need to be invested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171225	In other words, there are already existing motorways, where traffic is sanding, and therefore there is a very broad view, among other things. also on whether some of the existing roads can be used better and whether capacity can be expanded as an alternative to creating a new motorway. As I said, I have not taken a position on how we place ourselves here, but I also note, of course, that there are a number of parties, including parties, which, before the elections, were in favour of a motorway and Ring 5, which no longer do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171257	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171300	I understand that the Social Democrats and the government have not yet taken a position on Ring 5, but will postpone the decision until the analysis that is being carried out is complete and available. But I would like to ask the Minister if we can expect the Social Democratic Party to take a position on Ring 5, and 2) if that position goes against the establishment of a motorway, can we expect the Social Democrats to support the abolition of the transport corridor?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171331	The purpose of the analysis, as I said in the speech, was precisely to look at whether there are area reservations which can be cancelled if necessary. But I also think that this should be done on an enlightened basis. That is why I just have the recognition of those parties that will be with the rapporteur's own party too to expand the analysis. But of course there must also be respect for the municipalities and the region that has helped to finance this, i.e. Køge, Høje-Taastrup, Vallensbæk, Ishøj, Ballerup and the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171403	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171404	Well, I think that was a very positive answer, because if I can interpret what I heard, it was that if, on the basis of the analysis, the Social Democrats take a position against Ring 5, the Social Democrats will also support us abolishing the transport corridor reservation. I think that is a very welcome announcement and actually a message that I didn't expect to receive today, considering that this corridor has existed for 50 years. That is why I am very, very pleased, and I will keep the Minister up, that if the Social Democratic Party and the government are against a Ring 5 when we get the analysis, then we will count on the party and the government to also vote for the abolition of the transport corridor when we get it back to decision here one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171448-2	In other words, whether you can make a narrowing of a corridor depends on the concrete analyses, including, of course, whether there are other things you may need. It could be energy infrastructure, for example. also be super bike paths. As I mentioned, super bike paths are also part of what we are looking at. So generally it's being sober and analytic to a subject like this actually important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171518	Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171521	Thank you. The minister talks about the fact that this is partly about congestion around Copenhagen. The Minister is absolutely right about that. The Trouble Commission has warned that Copenhagen will be true in traffic by 2025, and I believe that with the increase in car traffic that we are seeing so far. But there it is SF's view that if you want to solve the problem of congestion, the way to do it is not to build a motorway. We have fine examples of motorways generating more car traffic. One of the class examples is for example: Call 3 before enlargement to the three tracks to just under 2 billion. kr. drove through in 22 minutes and five years later you drive through in 28 minutes. One of the reasons why SF was not involved in the extension of the aforementioned mandate from the preliminary study to Ring 5 was, as the Minister will remember, that it was not possible in the Ministry of Transport to write in an assessment of road pricing and what this would mean for the hardship. So I should like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes that road pricing might be a tool to solve the problem of congestion and whether he is sympathetic to the fact that research is gradually saying that highway expansions and more roads are not creating less congestion, but more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171648	Now it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171650	I am well aware of the point of view and it has also been clearly expressed to me. The Commission here does not really deal with tax elements, since at the moment everything about car taxation is an area with which there is already an independent commission working under the leadership of Anders Eldrup, and we are awaiting that work from the government. This does not mean, however, that we should not also analyse all possible means of remedying the congestion, and I have already mentioned these: existing roads that can be expanded, better involvement of public transport hubs and all the other elements here. However, I think it makes sense for us to clarify all these elements, but of course I also know the SF's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171742	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171745	Well, I'm glad to hear you thank me for that, I'll tell the Minister. However, I think it would be appropriate to have a slightly clearer answer as to whether the Minister sees road pricing as a possible alternative to an extension of a motorway or a Ring 5 connection for that matter, as we are talking about solving a congestion problem, because we are doing this very much in the SF. And even if there is of course some work going on in the Eldrupkommission right now, it would be interesting to get the Minister's perspective on whether he himself thinks it is a tool that could be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171817	It depends to a large extent on how it might be arranged. As I remember it and this I do not have a readiness to do, I must stress that from 2012 when working on some models to introduce payment to drive in the metropolitan area, it was certainly not something that would have alleviated the distress of the rings around Copenhagen. But, of course, there may be some elements of alternative models on which to analyze if necessary. But in this context, in this context, we are awaiting the analysis that is being carried out now before we decide what is going to happen in Ring 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171859	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171903	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Minister for a positive reception of the proposal here, I think. It is certainly not a complete rejection, as I hear it. That is why I would more like the Minister to relate a little to the way in which pilots and landowners have been treated in what we here call the transport corridor. We are talking about almost 50 years when people have not been able to know what is going to happen to their property. And it is true, as the Minister says, that there must of course be expansions and changes and new installations etc. of Denmark's infrastructure, but is it basically reasonable to leave people hanging like this, sir? Minister? Would land reservations be made today in order to be realized in the Lord's year 2070?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204171957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172000	I certainly do not have any current plans to make area reservations anywhere in Denmark that has that time perspective. I'm gonna hurry up, for the record. In relation to the more legal elements relating to the area reservation in question and to what is also referred to in the motion for a resolution, I should like to point out, for the sake of good order, that, together with my Ministry and the Ministry of Industry, I have forwarded a note to the Committee on Transport in response to the honourable Member's question. Question 41, which examines the more legal principles of it here, including the challenges that are also mentioned in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172045	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172046	Well, I'm not going to try to pin the Minister of Transport on the acts or atrocities of previous Transport Ministers. That's not my business at all. I am fully aware that the Minister for Transport has brief experience in his ministry. No, what I am looking for here is to express a fundamental understanding of those people who have now, for almost five decades, been sitting and could not be allowed to realize their property. It does not have to be to build roads or industry. It may also be to convert to natural areas. But I guess the uncertainty over so many years doesn't know what's gonna happen... isn't acceptable, sir. Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172130-2	I know there are no restrictions on making recreational areas and such things in this transport corridor, for example, and it is not unusual to have legislation which in various ways restricts nature protection lines, beach protection lines and such things. This area reservation has existed almost as long as I have lived, which is why I can also understand that the vast majority of residents who live in the area have also known about the restrictions that have existed when they moved there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172207	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172210	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister is open to many others for me to see better solutions than more motorway. My question is as to when that analysis is expected to be completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172224	In 2021, the analysis is complete. I cannot make an exact date at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172229	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer apostates. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172240	Then there was a light in the microphone. It might also be that the Minister could see the light if it was that one also concentrated a little on why an investigation was being carried out. We all agree or know why an investigation was initiated. It was precisely because of all the citizens who approached, because they feared this motorway, which would destroy our nature, to create a lot of noise in some areas that already have a lack of good nature. It is also a little strange if we look at it in relation to what we know today about transport, lorries, noise and climate, and when we have just set the objective of meeting the climate; I know that is something that the government values. So I am surprised that we continue to maintain that we must see what the study shows. That is why I would like to hear: if the study, when it arrives in 2021, shows something else, will you abolish those area reservations, i.e. if you do not decide to build a motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172351	Indeed, I know quite well the background to the work that has been started here, among other things. Moreover, the fact that the former government had an agreement on the infrastructure did indeed have a very narrow agreement with its support party, which the questioner represents, which was, after all, to build a motorway in the area in question. So I think it's fine that there is now a circle of parties that would like to be involved in extending these analyses so that we haven't determined beforehand that there should be a motorway, Ring 5, but also looking at alternatives. In fact, I think that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172432	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172434	Now I have looked back a little in the negotiations that have been going on, and already in 2014, when it was discussed, we were also opposed, so it is certainly not a motorway that has been in the garden of the Danish People's Party. That is also why I am asking you about the fact that there are so many changes taking place with our climate, our transport, and what we are working on in the field of whether you can't change some of the decisions you have made and at the same time answer about the area reservations: Can we now decide that if you find out in 2021 that you don't need a motorway there, you will cancel the reservations next year, i.e. in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172512	Now, we have to see what the analyses show, including whether corridors and such things can be narrowed down, but I must also stress that I had the clear view that the agreement reached by the author's party just before the last election, less than a year ago, also included the construction of a motorway, Ring 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172535	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172536	Thank you so much. Like the other authors, I welcome the fact that the Minister is not completely opposed to this. But I'd like to pick up the thread a little bit. The minister himself mentions the fact that those area reservations have been there for a very, very long time and that those who bought houses in this area may have been aware of it and so on. But the whole problem is that the fact that the state is going in and doing these very, very intrusive things is whether it is expropriations, land reservations or what it is, puts citizens at a disadvantage. I mean, if you, for example... If you want to make a larger expropriation, you say that the houseowners could just have examined it more closely and so on. But does the Minister think that this is the way forward that we should have such long-term area reservations, such long periods when ordinary Danes live in uncertainty and actually lose money on the property they have bought?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172644	I think it makes sense for us to have this analysis because it can help to narrow the corridor or make other decisions. But I would also just like to say that what is in the area reservation does not directly interfere with citizens' property rights. It is true that it limits the scope for action and it is also apparent from the note that has been sent over the whole of the protection lines of the Nature Conservation Act, just as the beach protection line does, just as the forest protection line does. In other words, there are citizens living in different parts of the country who have different restrictions on their properties. It's not unknown, and it's passed through the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172732	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172734	Thank you. I am quite familiar with this. Now I brought up expropriations because the argument used by the Minister was a little the same as sometimes heard with regard to expropriations, i.e. this one with that it is just-like. So what I am really just curious about, and which I would like to ask the Minister again, is whether the Minister also believes in the future that it is appropriate to have such long-term area reservations, or if one should not just be able to get built when a decision had been taken, if that is what one would like and in this case see to have those area reservations lifted immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172814	The whole point is that this is about regulation. In other words, it is based on a majority in the Folketing. This would also mean that the majority of the Danish Parliament could decide to do something else. It is clear that this is also why I think it is sensible for us to carry out the analyses which are also carried out by a fairly broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172835	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172839	It relates to the issues that come mainly from the left in the Parliamentary Chamber. We hear that there are a number of grounds on which we are speaking, and I would like the Minister of Transport to confirm that those terms are actually not true. We hear from the Enhedslisten that when you expand roads, it does not lead to a reduction in congestion, and there I want to hear whether the Minister of Transport can confirm that what Enhedslisten claims does not show the figures. For example: It has been found that road users save a lot of time in traffic as a result of recent road expansions between Aarhus and Skanderborg, on West Funen and on Ring 4. The second thing I want to hear is whether the Minister can confirm is that the solution for more public transport which might also have been from the Enhedslisten, while the second one was from the SF, also does not work in relation to the tribulation. For example: a light lane is proposed in Ring 3, but this will not reduce the congestion on the roads in the ring connections in Copenhagen. Can the Minister confirm that this is what the Ministry's figures say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204172938	With regard to the analyses of past road expansions, I can at least remember the analysis of road expansion on West Funen in the head, and I can confirm that it shows that the situation has improved and that travel time has been reduced. That's right. In relation to public transport, there is no indication that an easy path in Ring 3 can in itself remedy the congestion in Ring 3. On the other hand, it has to be said, and I was told in my speech, that there may also be other measures to be used than to build a motorway. It may also be the extension of existing roads and other roads, which is why, of course, it is also included in the analyses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173023	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Now we can get to work on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Socialist Group, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173039	Thank you for the floor. This is by no means a new matter, and this is not the first time that we have to decide whether or not to abolish this area reservation. Let me be fairly clear: I understand that this has been going on for about 46 years, but there has been a reason for this. There has been a reason why, in terms of infrastructure and public supply, we wanted to make sure that we had the opportunities to actually make the solutions that might be necessary. What one might ask is: has it been necessary 46 years? What I find a little funny about it is that we are actually in a situation now that we are doing some analyses of this, both by looking at such a specific part of the reservation, but also by looking at whether a little can be moved in relation to the remarks and objections that have been on this over time. You can discuss whether it is too early to do this after 46 years, but I do not think the timing is right; I do not think the time is right. In fact, I think we are in a situation where, with the developments we have seen in recent years, we are in a situation in which, in the long run, precisely this reservation may prove necessary, and therefore it would be wrong to start to abolish it today. A little is being put in place for it to be either - or in traffic development - that it is either highways or public transport. And I would like to say that this is not a view that we share. It's not a either-or; it's a boat-and. In other words, it is naive to think that we can solve the congestion of motorways alone, but I also think it is naive to think that public transport alone can do this within the economic framework we have today. That is why I still believe that the reservation of Ring 5 is justified. We are therefore in favour of looking at, when we are talking about the northern part, whether it can be narrowed in a bit, but one of the elements, which must also be part of this debate, is surely that, regardless of what, when we talk about motorways, there is also a part of the supply that we have to have regardless of what. So such a complete repeal will not be possible anyway, but you will be able to make a narrowing in this. And it can be said that as long as the reservation is there, we have, of course, secured the nature that has been involved in developing over these 46 years, and of course we recognise this as a challenge. Within the lines that have been proposed, there is also something Natura 2000 that is unique biodiversity, but that is some of what a subsequent vvm and possibly other technological solutions will be able to help look at. One of the elements that is also in this is, of course, that forward-looking in relation to some strategic decisions it may well be that it has not filled very much • has done an analysis work of a fixed HH connection, which should also be reported on, either during this year or next year. And there I know that the prerequisites are that Ring 5 is not part of this, but everyone has acknowledged that it may subsequently be very appropriate to make a decision about it. Therefore, we still think that strategically there is a good idea and good sense in maintaining this reservation, so we cannot vote in favour of lifting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173431	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173436	Thank you. I took note of the rapporteur's use of the word timing: perhaps it is now the right timing. In other words, after 46 years, in addition to the fact that these areas have become much more built up, many more people are being bothered, so I'm also thinking: long enough now? Is it right now that we have to invest in a huge new motorway right now that we have not yet reached the goal of developing sustainable passenger transport, that is, at a time when cars are still contributing big to CO2 Is it right now that the good timing is for Ring 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173522	It has just been made clear that it is not right now that it will be part of an overall traffic planning, not only for this area, but for the whole country, and this will of course include the 70-percent target, which is also here. I should just like to stress once again that it is not either a motorway or public transport. It's a boat and if we're going to have a Denmark that's connected. I think we should also bear in mind that, in the long term, these motorway solutions should also have been replaced in relation to those who are actually running on them today, so that we did not get the same load.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173558	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173558-2	So maybe it's not right now. Maybe it won't be for 10 years. That is where the question goes from motorway to transport corridor, because the problem is not just a possible motorway. The problem is that people have been kept in a totally unfair situation for 50 years and perhaps 10 years or perhaps 20 more if the Social Democrats cannot figure out how to take a stand on this issue. Does the rapporteur think that it is fair for the residents to sit up here today to wait another 10 years to clarify whether they have been bought or sold, whether they can borrow, whether they can get a building permit, whether they can expand, etc. etc.? How long do they have to wait? What's the right timing for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173642	I just cannot set a date because it will show time in relation to the developments that are coming, but this has been a prerequisite for the last 46 years. It is a standard, a framework that is in relation to a reservation here, and we have not set a time limit on when that reservation should not apply anymore. It has to do so until it is either realized or at some point does not make sense. We have not reached where we think it does not make sense. We still think that in the long term it can make sense in relation to the infrastructure we need to invest in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173714	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173716	Quite frankly, sometimes I have some doubts as to whether the Socialists are serious when, for example, there is a problem. The understanding paper states that we must focus on public transport and cycling. The rapporteur also says here that it is not a either or that it is a bet on both. But is it not the case that we are about to take the decisions that say that we must invest massively in public transport if this is to have any effect? If it is to be a decent • of course also a sustainable alternative to carism, how long will you continue to maintain this reservation? As other rapporteurs have said, it has been in existence for almost 50 years now, and I have not seen anyone I have seen, for that matter, either the Social Democrats do so, so why don't you take the consequences and say: then we drop this, that's not what is needed in the coming transition, and we don't need to continue for many years yet, because that's what the rapporteur says, in fact, to bother the residents who live up to this corridor?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173828	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173829	I think I would like to say that it is true that there is an understanding paper, and in that it is also proposed that perhaps more emphasis be placed on greener solutions than private carism. But I do not see it as saying now that there should be no infrastructure investment in motorways in the future. Of course, there has to be, and that includes this as part of all the projects that are on slippage. So an infrastructure plan in the context of the forthcoming negotiations will show in what order and in what direction the reservation that is here will be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173903	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173905	Yes, but does the rapporteur not agree with me that if it were to be and if you were to put those glasses on, and I say Enhedslisten does not, but if you were to do so, I think there are other motorway projects around the capital that are more pressing. I guess that's why you don't see this connection as a priority by any party. It is true that it was part of the previous government and the agreement of the Danish People's Party, but I should like to say that shortly afterwards, too, it was run backwards from it again. So why continue to maintain a reservation for a motorway that nobody seems to be prioritising?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204173948	I think it is too early to conclude that no one is giving this solution any priority at all. We will have a debriefing in 2021, as the Minister mentioned, and there can be some opportunities in this regard, which we will certainly not cut off by abolishing the reservation now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174006	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174011	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, whom I think is very much in favour of his position. After all, this was something that we discussed both in relation to North Zealand and to Zealand during the election campaign, and now we have one proposal here, namely the transport corridor in the south, while another day we are discussing the north. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the wishes of the Social Democratic Party, or rather some of the candidates who took up the Sjællands Storkreds, are still the policy of the Social Democratic Party. I have an article from the election campaign in which Mrs Astrid Krag proposes that in future the pre-examination of Ring 5 South should include a model that is more gentle on nature and local communities, that is, simply to go in and moderate the studies that lie. And I do not think I heard that when the Minister of Transport was on the floor, that is, the fact that the conditions for investigations have changed since the previous government. So it could be that the Social Democrat rapporteur could shed some light on whether the proposals that Mrs Astrid Krag made in the election campaign have been incorporated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174122	At least that is what I have been able to read out in relation to the descriptions that have come, namely that you have not only looked in isolation at the Ring 5 that has been in the past, but that there is also a Ring 6 and a Ring 5A that is beyond as an opportunity to assess in this context. So my guess is, yes, it's inside the analyses that will come in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174145	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174146	This simply brings me to the same question that I allowed myself to ask the Minister for Transport, namely whether the rapporteur does not agree that no matter what the end of this uncertainty may be. Keeping people in the dark, considering whether to dispose of their property for nearly 50 years, is not worthy of a community of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174207-2	I think I have responded earlier by saying that there is at least some clarification missing before we are ready to discuss the cancellation of the reservations there is. So I can't set a time deadline for when there's a final decision in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174224	The next question is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174228	Thank you very much. Now it has to be said that I live in the county of Greve, where there are a great many citizens who will have the genes of another motorway; we have one in advance, and we also have two train connections • I think we actually have plenty. When I went into this case, I also heard rumors that this motorway was actually supposed to be connected up to Elsinore, and then we had to have a permanent connection to Sweden. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on whether it is a fixed link with Sweden that you would like and which is then hung on a motorway across Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174306	As I mentioned, an analysis work is already under way, which will have to report on the possibilities for a fixed HH connection either at the end of 2020 or at the beginning of 2021. But what has been the starting point of that report is that you have said that you do not do it depending on a Ring 5 motorway, but there is no doubt that a lot of people have been out to say that if you make a fixed connection, a Ring 5 motorway compared to the increased traffic volume will also make sense. One might say that we have the two studies that have to be unveiled in one way or another. One comes in 2021, and the other is about the HH connection, and they have to come before I can give a final answer in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174346	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174348	One of the points made by many is that if there is a fixed link, if there is a new motorway, we will also experience massively more trucks on our roads. I am thinking of how this is related to having a climate target. Because that makes us get even more emissions of CO2 so I just want to know if this is something that the rapporteur is also working on in his party, that is to say that it will actually make our climate targets even harder to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174422	That's what I've been talking about. It is, of course, the total investment in infrastructure, in relation to what we invest in public transport, in relation to achieving the 70-percent target. It is not only in isolation seen the HH connection or what is happening on Ring 5 which is interesting, but the overall development of traffic throughout Denmark, both in relation to the heavy and non-heavy traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174457	Thank you. If you have followed transport policy very closely, you will know that I am not the rapporteur on transport from the Left. And there hasn't been a replacement. Our transport rapporteur, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, does it excellently, but he is not at Christiansborg today, and therefore I take the bill and will read Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's rapporteur's speech. As has been discussed in my opinion, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Bureau, it is not the problem of the Folketing that a rapporteur cannot be present, and it is not so directly to call for it, but one is welcome to ask questions, and then I have to answer as best I can. But now to the rapporteur's speech. B 58 deals with area reservations in the southern Ring 5 transport corridor around the capital. A motion for a resolution has also been tabled, B 59, on the abolition of land reservations in the northern ring 5 transport corridor, which was originally to be discussed today, but that proposal has been withdrawn from the agenda. I would like to start by thanking the proposers for bringing the discussion on the area reservations in the Ring 5 transport corridor into the Parliamentary Chamber. B 58 is that a circle of lots wants to cancel the area reservations in the southern Ring 5 transport corridor. The discussions on the cancellation of the area reservations in the Ring 5 transport corridor are not a new discussion here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It was back in 2015 with what was then called B 14 that we agreed here that new analyses for Ring 5 should be prepared. The agreement on the analyses was implemented with a broad traffic agreement in August 2016. In the wake of that agreement, there was broad political support at least at the time a study was launched on the possibility of looping or reducing the area bookings in the Ring 5 transport corridor in context, which is a little important for us, with a future need to strengthen the traffic link across our fingers around the capital. The Left wants to live up to that agreement and we are waiting with some excitement for the outcome of the study, which is expected to be in 2021, preferably before, if at all possible. Then we will take a position on this matter and we will do so on an enlightened basis. Compared to the southern part, there were in 2019, i.e. last year, with broad political support set in motion a separate study on how best to secure more motorway capacity towards Copenhagen. In this regard, it has been important for the Left to look broadly at the possibility and not just focus on a motorway in the southern Ring 5 transport corridor close to Køge Bay Motorway, which in our optics is not a good solution. We also want to explore the possibility of a motorway further west between Ringsted and Roskilde and possible solutions in between. Once that study has been completed, and unfortunately it is only for a few years, and that is a long time, of course, but we hope that it will be possible to proceed more quickly, we look forward to making a political decision on the location of the motorway as well as a possible lifting, with a dash under the possible, of the Ring 5 transport corridor in the south or parts of it. The Left is not in favour of short-circuiting initiated investigations, which we as a party have ordered ourselves. We think it is most fair and fair to wait until they are finished, and then we take a position, and then citizens can have the certainty to which they, of course, are entitled. And what can be deduced from this is that the Left cannot support the resolution, but we are pleased that we can have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174858	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174902	I'm so sorry that it's not Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin, who was in the Ring 5 South Mafia before the election, standing on the platform. It is too bad that the transport rapporteur could not be there either. It is so unfortunate that I cannot ask the questions I would have liked to have asked. What comes from the Left is perhaps not so much else. But thank you for the fact that the rapporteur came in at least, but tell Mr. Morten Dahlin said we missed him.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204174940	I can tell you, sir. Morten Dahlin is a newly elected MP in the Left Parliament Group. I am personally very pleased about this because I have been the youngest in the parliamentary group for ten years. Finally, someone's come in a little younger than me. When you come in from the outside, you have some sharp points of view, and that is where you are part of the parliamentary group, and sometimes it happens to me, and that happens to Mr. Morten Dahlin said that you must bow to what a majority of the parliamentary group has decided; whether this is happening in this matter, I should not be able to say. We have decided and it obliges everyone in the group to wait until this report, which we have been involved in ordering, is finished. And then I hope and believe that we will end up in a place like the entire Confederal Group of the Left, including Mr. Morten Dahlin can see himself in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175028	Next brief remark on Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175032	In his capacity as a member of the group leadership, will the rapporteur not ensure that Mr. Mr Dahlin is present in the Parliamentary Chamber on the day we are to vote on it so that he cannot escape being here and taking a position by having a clearing? I think that could be nice and honest for the people's regime. But if I know the system right, he's probably not here that day, but let's see about that time. What I was referring to in the rapporteur's speech was the word possible, that is to say, that one will take a position on Ring 5 when the analysis is available and on a possible basis does it mean that the Left will open up the possibility of not giving priority to Ring 5 after the analysis has arrived and any negotiations on a large infrastructure plan still maintaining this transport corridor? Is it possible that the citizens who live in this area should sit even longer, not just until 2021, but perhaps even to a very, very long time into the future with this uncertainty? Is that an option in the scenario that the Left sees for itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175144	It is not our wish that this should take longer than 2021, but if we do not know what the report we have commissioned will show, then it is also difficult to predict what will then be the end of the political discussion that follows. It can be said that we hope not, and nobody in the Left Parliament group hopes so. Historically, we have been concerned that the areas where there are area reservations and have been for a long time are a burden on citizens, and we must abolish them. In particular, this has been a problem in, for example: the North Jutland with a third Limfjord connection, where there have been different possibilities of where the route should be, and where some have been tied to their property for an unreasonable period of time. We do not want that for citizens of Northern Jutland or for people in Køge or in the Count area or anywhere else. On the other hand, infrastructure is also important, and there we need to have the opportunity to make some area bookings, but we need to limit the period to as little time as possible. Whether you can reach it until 2021 or have to extend it is too early to answer, but we hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175249	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175253	I understand that you want to take a position in 2021, but you do not yet know quite whether you want to do so. Then I just want to say that as I understood the Left, this deal was made, where I actually have a really hard time, now that we're going back, to see who really got the idea that this Ring 5 should be in this deal. The Left rapporteur Kristian Pihl Lorentzen recently stated that the specific Ring 5 had not grown in their gardens. I think the Danish People's Party has said the same thing. And that's why I'm beginning to have some doubts about who this idea really comes from. Perhaps that was what the then Minister of Transport got through and that was he saw who did it and now sits his party with 3 seats. And then I can't understand why all other parties, when it's something nobody has on top of their agendas, and I have to promise that there's a scratch on these means of transport except a party with three mandates, why can't we free the people in the transport corridor so they live their lives like all of us without this uncertainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175359	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175401	That was a reasonable question, which I cannot answer either, but I can say that when the Left lies, as we do in this matter, it is also a matter of keeping the agreements we have concluded. So, I understand that parties change attitudes and views and other things happen to my own party as well. However, when we have commissioned a report as a starting point for an enlightened basis, I also think that we owe it to us to wait for a position to be taken. Then I can say that we are currently waiting for the government to find out when to negotiate infrastructure. And I think we're reluctant to come up with a lot of new reports, until we just know where the government really is, how much money there is and when something happens. And in that, of course, the Ring 5 question will also be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175442	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175445	Thank you. Just before we dealt with a case in this Chamber concerning Skrydstrup, and I understand that the rapporteur himself has been a representative of the Group of the Left and has said that Hans Christian Schmidt is free with regard to Skrydstrup. Can the rapporteur say a few words on whether Mr. In this case, Morten Dahlin will be released in the same way and will be able to vote according to his own convictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175516-2	What I've heard, sir. Morten Dahlin say, mean and argue in favour of in the Left Parliament Group, Mrs Mette Thiesen does not know, of course, that I think the position of the Left can be fully taken when we have to take a position on it. Anyway, we're just a party that says that we'd like to have a factual and professional basis and then other people are welcome to do something else. And my experience after four years as a minister is that it can be easy when a journalist calls, to grasp the easy point of view, but when reality hits and you get things looked at, you find out that the world was perhaps a little more complicated. That is why we wait until we have a basis, and I am sure that when we take a position, everyone in the Confederal Group of the European United Left will be listened to, including Mr Tugendhat. Morten Dahlin, who is doing this excellently, and I certainly hope and believe that what we then agree on is a united parliamentary group that backs up so that no one needs to make reservations about anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175618	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175619	That was a very long answer to a rather simple question. But thank you for your answer. I would then like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left will have a little better track of what kind of statements their candidates make in an election campaign so that they do not get into a situation where they say one thing, but do something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175642	I'll be very brief. I can say that it is easier to run a parliamentary group of four group members than one of over 40 and that it is also easier to run a small parliamentary group than a large one representing the country. I believe that there is now strength in being great, because it makes it possible to have influence, and I think it is possible to land properly in this matter, as in other cases, and that the whole Left Parliament group will be able to see itself in it and that the solutions we find will also be good for the citizens. But what the solution becomes is too early to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175717	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204175726	Thank you, President. The minister in his first speech was so reckless to suggest his age. It could be that one should approach it and reflect on the time that has passed. I am not going to guess when the minister came into the world, but it must have been a world where people had just landed on the moon, where the television sets were still in black and white, where the cold war was still on everyone's lips, where hydrogen cars, metro and internet were completely unknown inventions. At that time there were some visionaries who were most men, but also a couple of women who had a plan for what future Denmark should look like. So they looked in the crystal ball and drew lines out of the Danish map and planned. Should we not assume that the planning which the gentlemen and ladies back in the late 1960s and early 1970s arrived at hardly reflects the society we are living in today and are part of, and that therefore there must be some reasonableness in saying that we should also not be bound by the lines that were then put on a Danish map, especially at a time when we are all very concerned about how we can ensure both now and here, but also in the future, a better environment and better access to nature? It does not make much sense still to respect the lines which, when the infrastructure was built, were first and foremost controlled by where it is cheapest to build the motorway. That was typically where the Danish map was the greenest. It no longer makes sense to continue talking about Ring 5, when we see how the opposition finds itself so far away from the political parties and even from the parties that so small cracks, at least when the voters have to be heard. Then the Minister and others say that it is not now that we have to take a position on this issue. Yes, it is, because one thing, of course, is that for almost 50 years now a number of people have been bound by the Minister who is right that many of them will have been aware of this at the time of acquisition. Another thing is that in recent years we have seen a sharp tightening in the way in which the rules are administered, so that even small changes, building permits and such things are imposed on some quite unreasonable restrictions. It just means that there are people who have bought property, even after the area corridor was decided, who can sit with an expectation of how they could use their property, which has suddenly been disappointed. Of course, that's not gonna work. That is why we need to put our ears on the ground and listen to the environmental argument, but also to the sensible argument. If new solutions are to be found to the traffic challenges we face around the capital today and to the problems of the future, it is clear that this must be done in respect both of nature and of the people who are today actually tied up. That is why we in the Danish People's Party, together with many other parties, are happy to be the authors of both this proposal which concerns the southern part of Ring 5 and the proposal for the northern part, which will soon be discussed. And we hope, though it must have been a terrifying thunderstorm to hear from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, however, that the people of his own party who may have listened to it will listen more to the promise they have made to their constituents. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180201	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party something about this matter. What should be done about the congestion problems on the Bay of Køge Motorway, which will undoubtedly get worse if a motorway is not to be built in the Ring 5 corridor? How are people from Køge, Mrs Liselott Blixt's constituency, going to work in the morning and home again in the afternoon? How are people from Ringsted, how are people from Lolland, who commute to Copenhagen and back home, to get to work when Køge Bugt Motorway and ring roads around Copenhagen are completely red with critical congestion, if not knowing that new ring capacity is being built around Copenhagen to relieve Køge Bugt Motorway and ring connections around Copenhagen, i.e. since it is so obvious a bad idea according to the newly joined transport rapporteur in this case? How, then, is the problem to be solved with the great tribulation that will be by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180309	Well, I have learned from my mother that you should not decorate yourself with borrowed feathers, and I would like to stress that I am not the transport rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. I may be on the occasion of today's Ring 5 South rapporteur, but that's all I want to take on. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, this isn't about whether to build a motorway. There may well be places where it should be. It's about whether during that period, until Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can find a majority for his highways, continue to stick people. In other words, I must point out to the former Minister for Transport that there are even quite rich examples of the construction of a motorway around the country without there having been a previous 50-year reservation of the land. That's where you go to buy. Sometimes you expropriate or find other ways to expand highway areas. But for 50 years I don't know how long mr. Ole Birk Olesen imagines that it must be done further.So is something quite unique, and of course we will not stand up for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180405	The interesting thing about the fact that the area reservation has been there for almost 50 years is that the people who live there today have bought the place, their accommodation to a very large extent, knowing that there was an area reservation. That is to say, they bought it from some people who were therefore not tied up. I'll see if the Danish People's Party thinks it would be better to have something else. You can build a motorway corridor in the area reservation for Ring 5, but would something else be better? Because here, after all, people know that it might come at some point. Or do you have to do it in a completely different place where people have no expectation that there will be a motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180447	I am fully aware of the first point raised by the rapporteur: there may of course be people who have bought after the area reservation has entered into force. But we think that the changes in the administration that can now be seen still justify saying that enough must be enough. In relation to such a sudden motorway, I have no memory of it. Well, I've never heard of people waking up one morning, and suddenly a highway has been built. I have the impression that this is a quite long-range project. I was born in Frederikssund, where we have now been waiting for a motorway for more than 10 years. So I can assure you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that a highway isn't something that just shows up in the morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180529	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180604	Thank you. I think that some excellent arguments are being outlined in the debate here for us to abolish these area reservations. There are several different dimensions to the problem. Some people talk a lot about the uncertainty of the citizens who live in this area reservation, some talk about nature considerations, and others talk about the solution to the problem of hardship and how we are actually going to do this. SF can agree with all the arguments, but in view of the time it has become, I will lift myself up in a slightly more general perspective. It is that the Minister of Transport may be indistinguishable, I do not know that this summer has come to say that he wants to be a green transport minister, and we are very happy about that in the SF, in fact, incredibly happy about that, and we look forward to it being executed. But I would also like to stress that if you are a green transport minister, regardless of the responsibility for making mobility and transport as a whole work in Denmark, including driving cars, freight transport via lorries and motorways, then you also have a responsibility, as we heard Enhedslisten sketches out in the understanding paper, so that what is given priority is public transport and cycling. At least that's what we signed together. Then I think that there is now a fairly good scientific basis for saying that as long as we do not have a green car park, a motorway is not a green transport project. There may be all kinds of good reasons to build a motorway, but it is not green, if we build it from recycled plastic, it is not green, and I hope that the Minister will write it behind his ear, and if he does not, I will come down and do it for him in a moment. So if it is with the perspective that the Minister of Transport will be green, I think he should consider, and I hear a little that he is doing that when he comes to this resolution, to abolish the area reservations that are in this transport corridor not only for the sake of the citizens who are living with an uncertainty right now, not only for the sake of the fact that we in the SF are at least convinced that we will not solve a future undoubtedly serious congestion problem in the Copenhagen area with another motorway, whether it is called Ring 5 or Ring 6, or what it is called, but also because if you are a green transport minister, the billions will have to be spent on something else. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180902	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180906	In the agreement between the blue parties in the last parliamentary term, the desire to invest in a Ring 5 motorway on the other side of 2025 was, in fact, in 2026 and that is, the construction would have been completed after 2030. Can SF indicate how many petrol and diesel cars SF wants to be sold after 2030 in Denmark? Does the SF consider that half of the cars sold after 2030 should be allowed to be petrol and diesel cars, or does the SF want a single petrol and diesel car not to be sold after 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204180952	I'm so glad that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen asks, because the answer is obvious. In SF, we do not want a single diesel or petrol car to be sold at this time. This brings me to the conclusion that, unfortunately, this is not something that we have adopted yet. I note that just a few days ago the Minister of Transport announced that he thinks that stopping petrol and diesel cars is an excellent idea, and we are pleased about that. But this is not something that we have yet adopted, and hence there is a slight lack of initiatives to convert the car park into something that could almost make a motorway green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181031	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181034	I can inform you that if the technological developments for green cars continue in this way, it will also be the view of the Liberal Alliance that we do not have to buy and sell petrol and diesel cars after 2030. So I think there can be broad agreement on that here in the Folketing, and I think that is also the view of the Left. So my question is actually this: the claim that we cannot expand roads that open on the other side of 2030 because it will not be green is not right, at least not if we implement SF's policy, nor if we implement the policy advocated by a broad majority in the Folketing? There is a road that opens after 2030, actually a very good green transport offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181115	After all, this is an excellent perspective which the rapporteur on the Liberal Alliance has outlined here, and how good it would be if it were to be so, but it does not do so yet, as I have said. It is not a reality yet that we can look forward to a much greener car park, because it requires in SF's optics that electricity car charges be changed, and we are eagerly waiting for what Eldrup will bring in in a moment. It also requires that we make road pricing, and this requires that we look to Norway for a little in the conversion of their electric car park, but we are not there yet. So it would be nice if it were, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen suggests, but it doesn't, and in SF we'd rather relate to the reality of the upcoming infrastructure plan than we would relate to the desired scenario.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Henning Hylllested. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181209	Thank you. As one of the authors of the motion for a resolution, it is not surprising that we are actually voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. Then it's settled. And we are doing so because we do not consider it sensible to build more motorways. The area reservation in Ring 5 is intended for the construction of a motorway. When it should then be, there is so much uncertainty about. So far it has taken almost 50 years to take advantage, if I may say so, of the option, and what more goes 10, 20 or 30 years? It is not fair to the people who experience restrictions and restrictions on their ability to build and what else they want, and to the opportunities for municipalities to exploit the land in question. Several highways are not the answer to the tribulation, but we know that there is a strong disagreement about that in here in the Things. In our opinion, we must, of course, reduce car traffic, but at the same time we must ensure that there is a proper alternative to car traffic, and it is public transport that there is therefore a proper collective alternative. It is also, of course, because public transport has the obvious advantage that it moves really, very many people in much more space and with the use of much less energy. So it is important that we ensure that there is a proper collective alternative. The last 3, 4, 5 decades you've been betting in reverse in this society, in this country. The aim has been to build up the road network, especially the extension of the motorway network, so Denmark today is one of the EU countries with the most kilometres of motorway per kilometre. citizen. At the same time, it has become apparent here in a very short time when we have the so-called rail service overhaul under-priority and under-funded public transport, not least public rail traffic. In that case, of course, the situation we have today has been faced with heavy congestion. That is a fact ■ in many parts of the road network with cars. At the same time, this development has been boosted over the last two to three years by making cars significantly cheaper. We think, not least for the sake of the citizens who live in this area reservation, that it should simply be abolished, so that there is clarity for citizens and municipalities to start using this area for whatever it may be. We believe that it should be used to a great extent for recreational purposes, for natural purposes, because we are so lacking in nature, not least wild nature in this country, and we could then use the land for that, since they are still there. I heard the Minister of Transport, among other things. said that it should also be used for other infrastructure facilities. It could be energy etc. etc. and even super bike paths, for which we have a great, great sympathy. But it probably doesn't require an area reservation, which is 1 km in width, to accommodate a super bike path in that area • it would otherwise be an excellent idea. Nor do we think that consideration is being given to the discussion which has grown bigger and larger over the last 3, 4, 5 years, about traffic noise, that is, how annoying it is and that very many citizens in this country are following it bothersomely. Of course, this problem will only be reinforced if the motorway network is extended and an additional number of citizens are bothered by it. Moreover, we consider the whole Ring 5 corridor to be in some way a transit link for Fehmarn as well. This is probably a slightly overlooked problem, and I see no reason why we in this country should spend a great deal of money on that. That is why I would also like to point out, as I have done in some of my questions, that it is also funny that this has not really been a priority. We have had this area reservation, but it has not really been a priority to build a motorway. After all, it is only with the previous government and the Danish People's Party's proposal from before the elections, together with the Social Democrats' plan, that it appears that this could be an opportunity. So no, we do not believe that there is a need to maintain the area reservation. We will be strongly opposed to the construction of a motorway here. We think that the area can be used for many other sensible purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181729	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181734	It is well known that Enhedslisten is against building new motorways and extending existing motorways. But that's probably not what's gonna happen if you drop a new highway in Ring 5. What some people are talking about is whether a new ring connection could then be set up around Copenhagen somewhere other than in the Ring 5 corridor. If we just look at the reality of the situation, not the fact that there will be no expansion of the ring capacity around Copenhagen, but that it will probably come and that the question is, where should it lie? Does Enhedslisten really think it is better to put the new motorway in a place where people expected that there would not be a motorway because there was no area reservation than to put it where people when they bought the house were well aware that there was an area reservation for a motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181828	No, we certainly do not think so. I do not know what kind of reality Ole Birk Olesen finds himself in, it is the reality that is called continuing expansion with roads and motorism. We want a different reality in the Enhedslisten, and that is, as the rapporteur, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, also says, well-known, that the Enhedslisten will not expand at all with new motorways, so no new ring connections of motorways should be built. We would rather expand with public transport. We've started with the light field in Ring 3. It is not enough that we fully understand that it is not enough that a massive investment should be made in public transport, not least in the metropolitan area across the board. We have proposed a comprehensive network of light rail networks throughout the metropolitan area as one of the means. But it is clear that, contrary to what I said, massive investment needs to be made for 3, 4, 5 decades if we are to solve the problems of congestion in an effective way. We do not do this by continuing to expand the road network, because we are also generating more cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181930	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204181933	It's just that sir... Henning Hyllested says that for the sake of the citizens of the Ring 5 corridor, we should drop the plans for a motorway there. It is just the case that unless the Enhedslisten and the Alternative get a majority in a future Parliament, we must assume that motorway capacity around Copenhagen will be expanded. So the only question is: where should it be expanded? And that is where Enhedslisten simply believes that it is better to build a place where people did not expect a motorway to come than to build where they have been warned in good time that if you buy a house here, there will probably eventually be a motorway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182015	Yeah, nice try, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. I do not accept the premise. I simply do not accept the premise. And it will not be Enhedslisten that will say: then it will be somewhere else. Of course, the logic suggests that this is not very sensible. But it will not be Enhedslisten who will in any way suggest that it should then just lie somewhere else and bother some other citizens. No, we're not having it at all. We must invest, as I said, in public transport. It is the public transport that has to take over in relation to the tribulation. If we don't let it do that, we won't solve the problem. We're just generating more and more cars when there are more and more roads and more and more motorways.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182051	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182059	Thank you very much. Again, the time is relatively advanced. It is, of course, the case that we reached an agreement in the field of transport back in March. We in the Conservative People's Party do not intend to run away from this. Since then, however, we have helped to initiate the opportunity to look at Ring 51⁄2 and Motorring 6 and other alternative solutions, among others. an examination of an extension with the Ringsted-Roskilde passage. And the answers to these questions lie these two years in the future, and before that we cannot take a position on the possible abolition of an area reservation in the Southern Ring 5 transport corridor. We are therefore awaiting the study and, as a party, cannot at this stage agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment which has just been made, and it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182200	I have to ask because we fought so many together before a choice was made that we wanted to get these land reservations away and that we did not want a motorway because we are some citizens elected in that area. Conservatives were also part of the Mafia who said, "Now we have to fight." After all, this is about Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, who was also involved and who said that Conservatives would, of course, also work against it. So I want to know if it was just election propaganda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182239	In any case, it can be said that as a party we have an official position that we will support the agreement we made on the traffic settlement back in March. After all, a single local rapporteur is allowed to question it in his local area. I would say that Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel has been very, very active since then, also to me, and connected me with, among others. the movement towards Motorring 5, which is present in this Chamber. We have had some really, really good debates where we are also discussing other solutions, such as: huge parking spaces, BRT buses, in which you can actually work. So she's done a really, really good job, but our official position is still gone, so we'll see the results of this investigation before we take a decision on anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182336	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182337	When I previously asked the rapporteur of the Left, it was because it was a candidate who was not in the Folketing. Now Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel was part of the Danish Parliament at the time, and I am here with an article that says: No thanks to Call 5 through Greve and Solrød. Bertel Haarder and I stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182407	Well, I acknowledge and am glad that Bertel Haarder has stood shoulder to shoulder with the Conservatives member of the party down in the area. Our official position is that we will see the results of these studies before we go out and report something like quite different, and we also think it is essential that we stick to the agreements that have been reached. Any party could learn something from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182434	There has been a request for a brief remark from a large number of Members. Oh, great!). The next brief remark comes from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182444	Thank you so much. Now I was just prompted by the previous questioner to ask something about that quote, for I read it too. It is rather striking that it is as if some parties in an election campaign like stripes in all directions. And now I found a concrete quote by Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, who besides saying that she stood shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Left. Bertel Haarder, who apparently saw the same as Mr. Haarder. Morten Dahlin says one thing in an election campaign and then then does another, in a quote to TV 2/Lorry says: "If it happens to me, then the Southern Ring 5 must be completely removed. There is already plenty of traffic in the Count and Solrød area where I myself come from. The Køge Bay motorway is burdened by a lot of traffic, but solutions other than a Southern Ring 5 need to be found. That is what Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel says in her reply to TV 2/Lorry. Is this an example of the Conservative People's Party saying one thing in this area, too, but does something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182537	After all, what Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel says in this matter is precisely: does it stand for me? It didn't. In addition, I can say to Mrs Mette Thiesen that we are looking at other options, which are also what she refers to in that article. So I think Mrs Mette Thiesen should read her own words before Mrs Mette Thiesen asks questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182605	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182607	I note that this is another example of saying one thing in an election campaign and doing another. And it was just nice for me to get confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182619	Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182621	So there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Niels Flemming Hansen thus uplifted). Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative. This is Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182637	Thank you. In the alternative, we always prioritise nature over traffic at least when there are more traffic possibilities. We need more biodiversity: it is in decline and we know that biodiversity needs more space. And, of course, municipalities are more motivated to do something for nature and biodiversity if they know that they have a natural area for many years to come. That's why, of course, we want to have this reservation canceled, too, because of noise nuisances. We know that people die because of noise pollution. And the higher the speed there will be as there will be on a highway the more noise and the lower the health and quality of life there. We also know that car sales are currently increasing, but there are studies showing that it is falling over time. And already now there is an international company called the Statistics Research Department, which has carried out studies that show that at international level the volume of cars is decreasing. And if you compare it with the fact that we know that self-propelled cars are on their way forward and that we can already authorise experiments with self-propelled cars here in Denmark, then it is also natural that in the not so long term there will be more self-propelled cars, which will mean that there is more chance of co-driving, because you can order the car to come and pick one up; so that we get more of those kinds of cars. And that is why there are also wise people who believe that our car stock is halved by 2030 and that is an amazing thing. In that light, of course, it is not very visionary to think about making more motorways. That's why we think we should get this area released to citizens and to the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182839	I can inform you that during the last parliamentary term a committee of experts was set up by the then Minister for Transport and it consisted of the main experts in Denmark. They were asked to answer the question of how traffic development would be due to the automation of cars when it arrives. And their answer was: Yes, there are some things that draw in the direction that such cars can transport more people because they drive closer and can also pick up more people on the road, but on the other hand they will also be so popular because they can drive themselves, so because you don't need a driver's license because you can be drunk or because you can sit and watch a movie. All the popularity will make us see an increase in car mass in Denmark in the future. It will certainly be green cars and they will be self-propelled, but there will still be more cars and they will fill more. Does that mean that the alternative means that we also need more roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182936	No, because I don't believe it's gonna give you any more cars. I believe there will be fewer cars and there will be more co-driving. And I believe that our collective system will develop in a way that we cannot even imagine at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182955	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204182957	Can we not just conclude that the alternative does not like roads and that is why the alternative has chosen to listen to the experts who say that we do not need roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183010	We need roads, but we do not need many more roads; we need to maintain our roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183025	As has already been said in this Chamber, the Ring 5 transport corridor can soon celebrate its 50th birthday, and in those years the area reservation has imposed restrictions on citizens in the affected area, both in the north and in the south. It has made it difficult for the landowners, they have almost been tied up, and it is really inappropriate. That is why, in New Citizens, we want to abolish the area reservations for Ring 5, both in the north and in the south. It is quite reasonable that there should be clarification for those citizens who are currently unduly affected by the area reservations. We want a rapid and continuous expansion of the Danish road network, but it should not be in the form of Ring 5, as it will benefit almost exclusively transport between Sweden and Germany. We do not believe that Danish nature should be used as a bypass for passing through heavy goods vehicle traffic, which is still largely handled by ferry between Sweden and Germany. We need to take care of our nature. It is part of our cultural heritage, and we must, of course, safeguard it. And that's why the Call 5 area reservations also need to be dropped. Over the coming months, the Folketing will vote on this, and it is our hope that a majority of the other parties will support us in the New Citizens in our fight to get rid of both the northern and southern parts of Ring 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183206	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183211	When commuters travel from Køge to Copenhagen, from Næstved to Copenhagen, from Ringsted to Copenhagen, from Slagelse to Copenhagen etc. Every day in and every day home on every weekday to work and do other things, sits in a violent, critical tribulation in 2030 - it gets worse and worse, and by 2030 it's critical tribulation I'd like to hear what New Citizens have started to prevent it from happening. So what is New Citizen's idea of how to prevent this critical congestion if no new ringing capacity is to be built in the form of a Ring 5 motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183258	Well, I would like to start by thanking the former Minister for Transport for this question. So, as I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech, we are certainly not against new ways, but this is also about a proper way of doing this. Those area reservations have been there for extremely many years, as a former rapporteur said, as well, and for this reason I can assure the rapporteur that suddenly a motorway is coming in Hillerød. I myself live in Hillerød. I can guarantee that this will not happen over night, as was mentioned earlier. This is kind of about us having these reservations canceled, and then you can look at how to solve this tribulation in the best possible way, but we don't think that's what Call 5 is going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183337	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183339	All studies point to that Ring 5 is the best location for new ringing capacity around Copenhagen, but I understand that New Citizens know better. And then my question is: where will extra road capacity be built to prevent the critical congestion that will be in 2030 if you do not build a Ring 5 motorway? What does New Citizens think: Where is it on Zealand and around Copenhagen that a new path should be built when it must not happen like a Ring 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183407	Well, there are some concrete things; there are, for example, as was also mentioned earlier, of course some Frederikssund motorway and some Hillerød motorway, which must be built out etc. But this is essentially about abolishing some area reservations that have been in place for almost 50 years. We simply cannot be familiar with them. And the rapporteur knows just as well as I do that in New Citizens we are very concerned that we want more roads, that we want more road capacity. We want to ensure that Danish drivers can get there safely. By the way, we will also remove the registration tax and do several other things that make it easier to be a car owner. This is an old proposal to facilitate traffic between Sweden and Germany, so that Sjælland would act as a bypass. Of course, we do not think that is right, and that is why those area reservations should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183451	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183456	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. For example, when we are talking about the future of the European Community, we are talking about the future of the European Community. If you have an HH connection, which both Danish and Swedish businesses are actually willing to finance themselves to get transportation down through Denmark and down to Fehmarn, you could imagine whether you are making a Motorring 5 or not doing that the cars will enter the Danish roads. Does the rapporteur not understand that it will bother the road users we already have on the Danish roads if we do not develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183527	I am actually extremely pleased that the rapporteur is asking this question, and I do not quite know whether the rapporteur has cleared it with his parliamentary candidate elected in the North Sea area. However, I would almost like to ask a reverse question, namely whether the rapporteur really believes that it is Denmark's responsibility to post money in a path that the Swedes can then use. I am very surprised that this is meant in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183553	Now it is my job to ask questions rather than those of the rapporteur. But what you can ask yourself is whether it is only if we get more heavy truck traffic on the Danish roads that will not increase the volume of traffic on the Danish roads and thereby bother even more, including the drivers who drive there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183613	I'm not really positive about that HH connection either. I do not think that there should be any more relations with Sweden, to be completely honest. But this is a very, very strange problem, and I can at least say clearly and clearly that we in New Citizens are not in favour of Danish taxpayers having to pay for the Swedes to drive heavy freight down through beautiful natural areas in both North Zealand and on Zealand in general and back to Sweden. That is not our policy, and it will never be, and I am very surprised that it is the policy of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183641	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204183651	Thank you. Transport policy is simply so physical and real that politicians sometimes fail if they do not want to answer the physical questions that are out there in the real world. We have been able to see this here today from Parliament's platform, where people have gone up and said that under no circumstances will they have a new road capacity in the Ring 5 corridor, and where, when they have been asked by me, how to prevent the critical tribulation that will come in 2030, so where to build to prevent the critical tribulation by 2030, has the answer bypassed. It is a pity in politics when you cannot answer specific questions, because the errand you are on is not to solve the problems of society • real problems, which will be there if you do nothing but your business is simply to market yourself to some voters and say that you will not do what some voters think is negative without pointing out what you will do to solve the problems. Because problems do not disappear by holding your hands in front of your ears and eyes. They just don't, they'll be there. The troubles will be there. If we look at the congestion maps that we have today and the congestion maps that will come in 2030 with the expected development of traffic, we can see that the whole Bay of Køge Motorway will be red, as will Motorring 3 and large parts of Ring 4. It will be red stretches, which means that there is critical congestion, and that means that the people in Mrs Liselott Blixt's constituency in Køge will have great problems getting to work inside Copenhagen in the morning and big problems coming home in the afternoon if you do nothing. And that means that radical voters where Mrs Zenia Stampe is running will have great problems getting into their jobs in the morning and coming home in the afternoon if nothing is done. This means that if, as a politician in this situation, you simply say that you will not do anything, you are responsible for the fact that your constituents cannot get to and from work and that they are sitting there in the queue and wasting much of their time sitting in queues. Call 5 is a possible response to solving some of the challenges. Call 5 makes it relieves traffic on Køge Bay by approx. 10% So that is why a future Southern Ring 5, which is what we are talking about now, provides an opportunity to remedy the problems that will be. This solution of standing on the platform and saying that you just won't, without giving an answer to what you will then for the benefit of your constituents, may well be working towards some voters. As you know, you can fool some voters some of the time, but you can't fool all voters all the time, even if you try, and even if you can probably get some votes for it, you can't fool all voters all the time. If Mrs Liselott Blixt or Mrs Zenia Stampe sits in the Danish Parliament in 2030 or just still away is part of Denmark and they have prevented the problems of congestion from being solved by 2030, then hopefully some will come to them and ask: why didn't you arrange to solve these problems? Now we're in line for 11⁄2 hours every day to get from Køge into Copenhagen or 1 hour every day, depending on how critical it is and it was you who prevented a solution from being created for this. We had chosen you, Mrs. Liselott Blixt and Mrs. Zenia Stampe, to solve our problems, but you did the opposite, you told us that the problems could be solved, even if you did not expand motorway capacity around Copenhagen. Bad shame, how could you do that? then the voters will say to Mrs Liselott Blixt and to Mrs Zenia Stampe. You knew better, didn't you? Didn't you know that if you didn't do something, there would be tribulation by 2030? Then it will probably be necessary for Mrs Liselott Blixt and Mrs Zenia Stampe to say: yes, we knew that, but we thought there was a vote to say the other. And it is a pity that you have that approach to politics. I really think so. So, of course, we cannot vote in favour of this resolution, which is purely populism, and we are used to it by the Danish People's Party, and in transport policy we are also used to it by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184159	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184205	Thank you very much. Now it is rare to ask the opposite way, but I wonder why a former Minister of Transport did not do anything about some of the things that could have actually been done back then. I drive from Greve Municipality every day, sometimes three times a day, to get into the capital to solve some of the work tasks I have. I know when there's tribulation. But I also know when there will be no tribulation, because then it will take 20 minutes. But we have something to do with the fact that we are all meeting at the same time in Denmark, and we are all going home at the same time. If you avoid those times, there is no tribulation. But if I'm going to be on the S-train, maybe I can't find a seat to sit down. Then perhaps a former Minister of Transport could not have looked at what can be done with public transport? How can you ensure that there are enough train cars, parking lots enough that there is something where you drive together, rather than that we all have to sit one in each of our cars? Because that is foolish, and that is something a former Minister of Transport could have tackled. Why has it not been done, and is it not looked at at at all by the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184321	Yes. If we could avoid spending many billions on building a new path with solutions that were cheaper and better, we would have done so, then we would have proposed it. This applies to all transport ministers, I believe, without exception, that they would have done so if it were possible. But it is not the case that there are such fixed solutions that you can just fire off in a Parliament hall. After all, Mrs Liselott Blixt can talk to her party's transport rapporteur, who does not have the clever solutions either, because they do not exist. They just don't exist. But it is often the case that being a Monday coach is very popular. You know, you're with a football team, and on Mondays, you say that if only the coach had done that and that, it would probably have gone. But if you had known something about football, you would know that what you proposed could not be done. It is also true in transport policy that knowledge often prevents us from coming up with these clever solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184422	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184425	Depends on what you want to use knowledge for. Liberal Alliance just wants to earn more and more money, do a lot for business, have more to move into the capital, have more companies in the capital. The Danish People's Party wants a Denmark in balance. So now, instead of having all those who drive in here, let us move some of the companies the other way, so that we get people out into the towns that are being depopulated. Instead of having to keep patching up the country with new roads and new businesses for all those who just have to go to work every day and all the way to pick up the kids when it's too late, let us look at preserving some of what we actually have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184505	Well, I totally agree. And I don't think there's anything stopping settlements anymore on Zealand any more than the fact that it takes too long to get to Copenhagen. The more tribulation there is on the Bay of Køge Motorway, the less people will want to live in Køge or in Ringsted or in Slagelse, because it takes far too long to get to and from work. The value of living inside Copenhagen, buying a small apartment inside Copenhagen instead of living in Ringsted increases, the more traffic there is on Køge Bay Motorway. Therefore, if you want what Mrs Liselott Blixt says, you have to work to reduce the congestion on Køge Bay Motorway, so that it can be done to live on Zealand and work inside Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184540	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184543	I recognise that the former Minister of Transport has locked himself very, very firmly on this. That is, of course, a position to take. The rapporteur is also shooting at us and so on. There is just something that puzzles me very much, because is it liberal policy to advocate that Danish taxpayers be bound as a state for so many years? For as I also mentioned in my speech, we all know well and some of us are also sorry that some of the very, very profitable road projects should have been completed at this time, such as the Hillerød motorway, the Frederikssund motorway, etc. It is not also recognised by the rapporteur that transport policy in Denmark is traditionally something that takes extremely many years. Can the rapporteur just say on this point: it is okay, I can actually see that the area reservations have been in place for quite a long time now; now we are abolishing them and we are looking at a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184653	I do not recognise that the area reservation in Ring 5 has the character of a stick binding. What may lead to people having difficulty selling their houses and that is what this is about when we talk about a staff binding is when reality begins to emerge in a project and you start to talk about that now it actually needs to be built; now there is actually a political majority talking about building. But that happens whether there is an area reservation or not. It is happening wherever political majority voting begins to say that we are now about to build. There has not been a staff binding of the houses around the area reservation at Ring 5. It can also be seen from the fact that the vast majority of those who now live up to the area reservations or in the area reservations are, after all, some who have bought their house in the last 50 years. It is not the case that all the houses are owned by people who had the houses when the area reservation was created and now there is a house of 50 years that they cannot get rid of because of the area reservation. You can get rid of the houses there. The people who live there are aware that there are people who want to live there and have bought despite an area reservation. However, the plans to actually build can lead to people having more difficulty selling any area reservation or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184812	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184813	Now I was just confirmed in what I actually asked about in the first place. I am very surprised, but then I have learned a little about liberal politics today, I would say. But does the rapporteur not recognise that, as a former rapporteur also said, this is a drawing that was made on a Danish map a very, very many years ago, and indeed it was in order to ensure transport between Sweden and Germany? It was like what was in the original plan. And does the rapporteur not also recognise that this will actually affect and destroy a great many small communities and wonderful natural values in Denmark? And I have to be honest and say that it is certainly something that worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184857	I have not, in fact, read out what was the justification at the time almost 50 years ago, but I can see that no one in this debate today has found better solutions in terms of reducing the congestion on the Køge Bay motorway, Motoring 3 and Ring 4 than starting the installation of a Southern Ring 5 and later perhaps even further north. No one has said in this debate that they have a better solution to prevent hardship in places other than the Ring 5 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184933	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204184935	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen notes that the tribulation will be there, and so it is. That is what the rapporteur says, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, that call 5 is an answer to that. Now you can always discuss whether congestion for 2 hours in the morning and 2 hours in the afternoon is a reasonable reason for spending many billions on extending the motorway network. The tribulation has come from somewhere. It has come because we have not invested, among other things. in public transport. We have Ole Birk Olesen. A great deal of money has been invested in roads; it has been a priority for many decades. At the same time, we have made the cars cheap. Not least, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's party contributed. But the tribulation is among other things. This is because we have not invested in the second leg, which must be taken away from the hardship, namely public transport. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has been a part of this, both as Minister of Transport and as part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185039	I simply do not understand why Mr. Henning Hyllested keeps saying that. Sir. Henning Hyllested knows that in the 2009 agreement that Enhedslisten did not participate in, the green transport agreement of 100 billion. kr., two thirds of the money was allocated to the railway. 66 billion kr. out of the 100 billion. kr. was allocated to the railway and the last third was allocated to the roads. So why is it that Mr. Henning Hyllested in any debate anywhere always says that you do not spend money on public transport in Denmark? Much more money is spent, and the maintenance of the railway, the ongoing maintenance, is much more expensive per person. People travel there than if they transport on the roads, and there are subsidies for public transport so that people do not have to pay the full price themselves, whereas road traffic is taxed, so people have to pay more than it costs. So why is Mr. Henning Hylllested keeps pretending? Sir. Henning Hylllested knows that what he says isn't true.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185138	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185140	I'm not pretending. That's actually a fact, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that if you take the last 25-30 years, you have invested 245 billion. kr. in roads and 113 billion have been invested. kr. by rail. And so it may well be that in 2009 a lot of money was allocated to public transport, but nevertheless Mr. Ole Birk Olesen very well has a huge backlog on maintenance of the Danish railway, and that is something that is now continuing. This will be reflected in the service we are now receiving from the railway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185219	I didn't have as old numbers as sir. Henning Hyllested, but those figures say so, according to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that in the last 45 years it was spent twice as many dollars investing in roads as in public transport or in the railroad. Well, 90 percent. of traffic in Denmark takes place on the roads. 10% is done on the railroad. So in relation to how many people and how many goods are transported in one place or another, there is a heavy overinvestment in the railways when half the money is invested there, as Mr. Henning Hyllested's figures do in the roads and when there is nine times as much transportation on the roads as there is on the railroad. That is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185305	The next brief remark is from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185308	When you hear Ole Birk Olesen, you'd think that tribulation was a bigger problem than the climate challenge. Because I understand it is so overriding that we have to invest in these roads. But I would just like to stay a little bit at what is actually the cause of that tribulation. It is, of course, that there are a lot of people who want to go to the big cities. They really want to drive in their own car, preferably alone in a large car, and then they really want to drive in there at the same times • that's the problem of congestion. If you didn't want to drive a man or a woman in a car, and if everyone didn't want to drive into the big cities at the same time, we didn't have a problem of trouble. And that is why it is extremely one-track that the only solution that a former Minister of Transport can come up with is a motorway. In other words, have no officials tried to explain to the former Minister of Transport that there are other instruments in this large catalogue of instruments? Or is the Liberal Alliance just so in love with private carism that it is the only thing you can even see for yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185416	What other effective measures, Mrs. Zenia Stampe? Because it is not the case that the train does not run today; it is not the case that people are left on the platform if they want to get on the train. Well, the train's there. So when you want to get in from the constituencies where Mrs Zenia Stampe is running and getting voters and votes, there's a train you can jump on. It is, however, apparently not enough for us to be able to get rid of the tribulation for the voters of Mrs Zenia Stampe when they go to Copenhagen. So I believe that they will appreciate that the roads will not be sandy by 2030, that we will not have critical tribulation by 2030, and that there will be some other ones when Mrs Zenia Stampe will not be part of the task that really exists, namely the task of solving the challenges of tribulation that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185516	I believe that my constituents on Zealand would appreciate that there was a place on the train when they went into it so that they did not have to get up all the way and that the train went fairly quickly and that the innovations that have been going on with the signal program, with lanes and on investment in new trains, could go a tiny bit faster so that those fast connections, as they have been promised for many, many years, could finally be realised. Because that's exactly what makes more of them take the car. And then the former Minister for Transport asked, if I may say so to the rapporteur, what other means might be available. There could be, for example. be roadpricing. But I know that this is the kind of thing that lies very far away from the Liberal Alliance, namely to introduce some kind of tax on driving. But it was actually something where, with a very, very simple grip, one could solve the problem of distress. What does Mr. Ole Birk Olesen for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185610	I am very open to road pricing, not as an extra tax for people, but as a tax that pays for what it costs to build and maintain roads; a tax, a user fee. And then you can remove some of the other taxes that are on cars that are quite unfairly high today. I am very open to this and I agree that it can help solve these problems. However, in relation to Mrs Zenia Stampes, the fact that not enough has been done on the train side, I would say that we are spending billions and billions and that it is not a lack of money that does not go faster. It gets better, and it's not because of lack of money that things are not going faster, and Mrs Zenia Stampe doesn't have to question my words, she can just ask her own transport rapporteur. That is the pity of having these debates here, namely that people who do not understand the issues raise motions for resolutions here and then leave the transport rapporteur who actually knows it at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185658	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204185711	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a very good debate. It is true that we are not all transport rapporteurs, but I believe that all of us who are here today have spoken to our transport rapporteur. I believe that most of us coordinate our resolution with the whole party group and therefore, of course, the relevant rapporteur with whom I have been discussing this matter all along. But let me come back to the proposal itself. As has been said before, there is not much time for the Ring 5 transport corridor to celebrate the 50th birthday, but the corridor is from a completely different time. At that time it may have seemed reasonable, but it has been a long time ago and a lot has happened in the meantime. The corridor is now going through a densely inhabited area... Count, Tune, Karlslunde and Solrød... how many people will be bothered by a highway. At the same time, we are in a situation where we must achieve a 70-percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions over the next 10 years. When you build new roads, there will also be more cars, and therefore a new motorway will make it even harder to achieve that goal. For that reason alone, we should stop talking about a highway along Ring 5. However, we should not just stop talking about a motorway, and that is what matters; we also have to drop the transport corridor once and for all, because it is not only the motorway that is interfering with people's lives, as the transport corridor already does today. It is difficult to get a building permit even for a small change; companies do not know if they can expand; ordinary people have more difficulty getting a bank loan, and this makes properties in the corridor itself difficult to sell; and people with nearby properties fear traffic noise and falling house prices. People don't know if they're bought or sold. It is not fair to keep people in such a situation, and certainly not for over 50 years. I know, and I think that some of the affected people are sitting up here today, yes, who are nodded and to you I would like to say that no matter how this ends today, and when we are going to vote at some point, you should know that we are going to fight the corridor. We will continue to fight until it is finally buried, and that also applies regardless of the outcome of the new study, which has been mentioned from up here many times. Our position is absolutely clear: Call 5 south must be laid in the grave and the transport corridor must be dropped. That is why I would like to dwell a little bit on the debate that has taken place today, because, apart from a very interesting ideological discussion with the former Minister for Transport, which I can sense in some way has been the very equal and equal driving force behind this proposal, I have not heard other political parties speak out loud for this proposal. I must also honestly admit that when I suddenly saw in the newspaper that it was on the government's infrastructure list, I was very surprised because we have long fought for a motorway extension down between Næstved and Rønnede and up to Kalundborg, and that is small money in this context • Ring 5 south costs 6.5 billion. kr.; we haven't gotten that far when we talk about the two small highways on Zealand and there we were wondering why 6.5 billion could suddenly be found. kr. to a highway that we had never heard anyone ask for. And I still need to know who it is that wants this freeway. I understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that they are my own voters, but I have never heard of that from them. Then who is it? There may be some local communities, and then perhaps there is an official apparatus and a minister who has blinded himself to this particular proposal. But what I found most interesting in the debate we have had today, apart from of course the interesting ideological exchange with the former Minister for Transport, was the exchange of words with the governing party, both the minister and the rapporteur, because I really think that the minister started well when he said that we would wait until the analysis was available. Yes, of course we would have preferred the Minister and the Social Democrats to have already said today that they were willing to put both Ring 5 and the transport corridor itself in the grave. We did not hear that, but we did, I think, get a promise that when you have taken a position in 2021 on the basis of the analysis that we must expect at that time, then you will also take the step further and drop the transport corridor. That is how I heard the Minister's speech, and I think I must go home and read it again, because when I then summed up the Minister's speech and asked: should I understand it that way? I'm afraid I didn't get a confirmation. I also think that, unfortunately, the Social Democrat rapporteur was able to express himself in a way that made it even more uncertain what is really waiting for the citizens in the area after 2021. Because can we again find ourselves in a situation where no decision is made on a Ring 5 south? Honestly, it doesn't sound like there's going to be a Ring 5 south, because I've only heard Ole Birk Olesen speak positively for it. All the others who do not want to vote for today just say: well, we have to wait and see, and it has not grown in our backyard either, but we have to be loyal to an agreement we have made. So I guess that proposal only has one father, and he's sitting down there. But we must then wait a few years to get these parties out of the bush anyway, but could we not at least, and I think that is the lead we must pursue, be assured that if they make the decision that they are against Ring 5 south, that they will not put it on the new major infrastructure plan that the government is planning to negotiate, then they are also prepared to support us abolishing the transport corridor. Because it is simply not fair to keep people in the situation they have been in for 50 years now, when you do not know whether you have been bought or sold. I think that is what we should be pursuing in this Chamber. If we cannot obtain a majority in favour of dropping the transport corridor now, then I think we should at least work to ensure that there is not a majority behind a Ring 5 motorway, but that there will then of course also be a majority in favour of dropping the transport corridor from 2021 when the analysis basis is available and when we have a clarification as to whether it is included in the major infrastructure plan or not. That's what I think we should pursue. Those parties that have worked with us on this proposal, I would like to thank you for a very good and exemplary cooperation across the Danish Parliament, and as far as I remember, only the three great old power parties are probably the fourth old party, but then do not count with the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives who are not with us, and LA, sorry. But otherwise it is a wide range of parties from both the right and the left of the Folketing that have collaborated on this proposal. I hope, when we have the major infrastructure plan and hopefully, that there will be no majority for Ring 5 south, that we can again table and have a motion for a resolution in the House about dropping the transport corridor in the Ring 5 south. I think we should work towards this, because if there is no majority at that time in favour of achieving that motorway, I do not think that there are any excuses at all for keeping people in the unfair situation they are in now. And in those words, I would like to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190424	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190428	The real and this debate has confirmed that there are no better ideas, because no one has come up with better ideas. People just say they don't want a Ring 5 they don't say what they want instead. Then I would like to state that Mrs Zenia Stampe says she is talking to the radical transport rapporteur. It could be that some people believed that it was true, but it seems that it is not because the radical transport rapporteur entered into an agreement in 2016 that such a study of a Ring 5 motorway should be carried out. This agreement has been reaffirmed here in 2019 with a mandate on how to make a Ring 5 motorway. And that is why it is not the Radical Left's transport rapporteur who is here, but a member of parliament who has been allowed to run a local issue, which is not the party's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190548	It is a pity that I have not taken my phone up here with me, because then I could read out the text message that I got from our transport rapporteur before it says that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen didn't say that, because you don't have to write that in a text, but I'm saying that now will probably say that it's conciliation. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190606	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190607	No, but that doesn't change the fact that the Radical Left has entered into an agreement back in 2016 that this study on a motorway in the Ring 7 transport corridor should be carried out and that the Radical Left has confirmed that it will be done with an agreement on the terms of reference for the study here in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190628	But I suppose you can quite well enter into a settlement which is about a study to be carried out, but at the same time you can be against the project. But no matter what, I have said where our party stands, and I have known that completely from the start. When the old government came up with its infrastructure list, one of the first things I did was to call our transport rapporteur and ask: what is that? And he said, you don't have to be for that, because we're not for that. Then I would like to say in relation to alternatives. It is not true that no alternatives have been mentioned from up here. I mentioned road pricing myself, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen confirmed was a possible solution. Then it has been mentioned with different working hours, so that we do not all have to leave at the same time. Then a priority has been given to public transport, so that it is really an alternative. Then there is the possibility that people may not have to commute into the big cities because you might be able to work from home. There's Ole Birk Olesen just can't see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a further request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190723	Now we were able to confirm that the Radicals were taking part in the decision on the study that is under way. What we have been trying to say is that we think it is rather illogical that we have started all this work, but now that we have set it in motion, we want to short-circuit it by taking a decision now. I guess it's really fair to wait for the results of this study.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190744	No. Could you stop that investigation? We're against that project, no matter what that investigation shows. Studies have also been carried out in the past. But I think that this agreement is the way it is in politics: people would like to have different things, and then we have probably agreed that an investigation was carried out, but that does not mean that we need to support a Ring 5 South, because we are diametrically and vertically opposed to it, and I have said that here, and that will not change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190809	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190810	I would still like to express a surprise at the theatrical order which one can almost hear in connection with this, so that one has gone so far from the side of the Radicals that one has actually said yes to this study, when one really does not think it can be used for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190825	Well, it may be, and if it meant that people weren't sure where we were, then I can tell them perfectly clearly from here, which I have also done: we are against a Ring 5 South. We will not be voting in favour of a motorway and we will be voting in favour of abolishing the transport corridor to this proposal, and we will be putting forward this proposal again on the day that there is probably no majority for a ring 5 South in the new major infrastructure agreement, and then we expect those parties who also vote against a new ring 5 motorway to have the courage and properness to then cut down the area reservation so that the people who, among other things, are. are represented today, actually know whether they are bought or sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190904	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190936	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204190945	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers wish by law to oblige municipalities to set up vulnerable councils in order to ensure that the voice of the socially vulnerable is heard in local political work. It is a very sympathetic errand to be out there and I fully agree that local vulnerable councils can qualify social policy in the municipalities and shed light on both challenges and solutions that work in practice. The inclusion of socially vulnerable people in the decisions that concern them in particular is an essential part of reaching out to those who are wholly or partly outside our community. This is something that this government has as one of its social policy pointsers. We must extend our hand further and give better room to the voices of those who are often overheard or do not have the power to shout. You can do this by going with people, by visiting shelters, rooms, shelters, by taking the time to talk to the people of the street when you meet them. But with a vulnerable council you can give these people a formal vote, and you as a local politician make a statement by setting up a local council that their voice is important. Today, 41 municipalities have, at their own request, set up vulnerable councils, and I know that more new ones are on their way. In the period 2017-2020, the Council for Social Deprived has the task of making a special effort to promote and support municipalities' work with local vulnerable councils. They advise and support existing councils; they inspire new municipalities with experiences from other places. Among other things: they focus on the translation work that may be necessary between the formal framework of a public administration and the often less structured framework that is everyday for many socially vulnerable people. The personal group for the local vulnerable councils is among other things: homeless people, people with abuse and people with mental disorders. If you want to bring those people along, it requires that you organise the work of the Council in a way that makes it accessible and that real involvement takes place. This can be ensured by putting extra effort into explaining designations and systems and holding meetings elsewhere than at City Hall so that more people can show up and take more breaks in the meetings or whatever it may be that needs to be done to make the work present and relevant. And this is what the government believes has a better chance of succeeding if the reduction of new voluntary councils takes place from the bottom up, along the path of volunteering. Because there is nothing to gain from formal involvement and pseudo-involvement. I also believe that the proposers agree entirely with me on this. What must be the objective here is the inclusion of benefits not just by name. With the new Social Deprived Council, which I appointed last week, or perhaps it was last week, two panels were set up to ensure that the Council embraces more widely. One panel consists of users and practitioners in the different types of exposure, and the other panel is a national panel with representatives from the local vulnerable councils in the municipalities. With the national panel, we will have a necessary focus on exposure across the country, in the city and province, in the outermost municipalities and rural municipalities, in a stronger way than we have had so far. The panel here will meet both the members of the Council of Social Affairs Ministers and the current Minister for Social Affairs, at least as long as the current Minister for Social Affairs is signed. I believe that it will strengthen the interest in having a locally exposed council and establishing it when, through the national panel, they can not only be a voice in local politics, but also have a direct channel of access to the national political level. As I said, we on the part of the government support the intentions behind the resolution, but we are not convinced that a duty to set up vulnerable councils will actually ensure the involvement that we believe is so crucial. That is why the government is proposing that instead of following closely the work of the Council of Social Affairs Ministers with the task that they have up to and including this year, we should support the continued voluntary setting-up of vulnerable councils where there are so many on the way. I have also given the new Social Affairs Council the task of re-writing their own Commission to rethink what role the Social Affairs Council has and must have in Denmark and what working methods they can have to ensure that we give more socially exposed people a strong voice in our social debate. And I expect that some of what they will get around in that work is precisely the local anchoring and the role of the local vulnerable councils. I would therefore like to say that this is not the last time I intend to discuss this with Parliament's parties. In the light of the experience gained in supporting the creation of local vulnerable councils, where we have seen a good increase in numbers and can hear that more are on the way, and in the light of the work of the new Council of Social Affairs Councils on creating a new Commission and thus also rethinking how they work best and whether this new national panel can play an important role in the future, I would like to share in discussing with the parties of the Folketing how we can ensure local involvement of vulnerable people as best as possible forward-looking and not by law. I think this needs to grow up from the bottom up if it's really going to be useful and not just by name. And then, it seems to have to be pointed out that it is such a formal matter that we, as a government, find it difficult to support the resolution because it does not point to the necessary funding that such a legal provision would require.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191525	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191531	Thank you. That was actually a good speech. I think it opens up the possibility that we may be able to look at support for the remaining municipalities to set up vulnerable councils, perhaps through the reserve, perhaps in other ways. There's the thing about funding. So, ten years ago, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the current Prime Minister, tabled the same motion for a resolution without funding. And then they stand and demand funding from me. Now this is cheap. It costs approx. 100,000 kroner. per Years per year So it's not the funding we're gonna fight about. But to point out to me that I should have found the funding when the Minister's party once did the same, I think it is a great deal. But when the Social Democrats tabled virtually the same resolution ten years ago, why on earth can we not just get it adopted now and move forward in the text?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191640	Fortunately, we have come a long way in this area since 2010. I shall not be able to explain why a Social Democrat rapporteur in opposition in 2010 could come up with a motion for a resolution without funding. We can look at what it cost in funds to demand that disability councils be set up. We can then look at what we need to have covered all municipalities with vulnerable councils. That's about it anyway. 7 million kr., estimated. It's some kind of money. However, as the rapporteur also noted, this was not actually the main argument in my speech. That is why I would just like to say to the rapporteur that there is real concern on my part about how we get the voice of the vulnerable more strongly and how we ensure that in here we get a better look at the different kinds of exposure that are across our country so that we do not end up in urban discussions. I think it is very telling that it could come as a surprise when the new homeless numbers came that there had been the increase in homelessness outside the big cities. It says something about the fact that it takes something special for us to look at the whole of Denmark as well. And I believe that the new national panel of the Social Affairs Council is an important step towards that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191748	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191750	Thank you. Well, that's sympathetic and good behavior again. But it was the case that when the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radicals and the Enhedslist tabled this proposal in 2009, I think it was, 10 years ago, some municipalities were already in the process of doing so. That's where it was going. And in the text of the law at that time, S refers precisely to the fact that it was in progress and that it worked well. So how can the argument this time be that it doesn't work when it's in progress if the argument then was that it works well when it's in progress?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191836	Now we have come so far that I can see from the figures how many vulnerable councils there are, and in the near future we have postponed councils in over half of the country's municipalities. What matters here to me is that it is some advice that can work. It should not be another layer that we put down from in here and that we can wing off on a paper in the administration, so that we have now also set up the advice we need. It has to be because this is something that bats; because it's something you've been thinking of taking in locally and listening to; because you're going to do what it takes to facilitate that the most vulnerable citizens actually get a voice and actually can be part of this work. It requires, as I went through in my speech, that the work be organised in a very specific way, so that it is not only a vulnerable council that you have in name, but actually also an involvement of benefit. And I myself expect a great deal from the national panel that I have set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191921	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. The next person on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204191937	I think we have already started very well here today on a debate which is very central to Denmark, namely what we are looking at to ensure care for the people who are challenged and who need an extra hand. I also think the Minister has been very clear in his tone that this is a problem we see everywhere in Denmark and that the Minister has already taken responsibility for us having looked beyond just what the big cities are pointing to. The other day, yes, actually yesterday, I was in the home of the proposer, Kolind, where I visited a café, Café Kolind. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur for the alternative. This place was for an exposed population; it was for people who needed something special, so a place where it is far to the next city. It takes a little time from Aarhus to drive all the way to Kolind. Here there was a central issue about people who needed care, love and a professional approach to tackling adversity in life. This shows that this is something that is central to getting placed, and I therefore of course welcome the fact that the Minister is putting himself on the agenda so exposed and has entered the debate. Is that the right way to do it? I am completely leaning on the Minister to say that we appreciate the fact that there is a clear local authority in the municipalities and that this is something that we must all deal with. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution either. I should like to say from the Enhedslisten and from the Radicals that they are also very concerned about the agenda and that it is essential that we deal with it together, but that they cannot support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192147	It had dressed up the Radicals and the Enhedslisten to show up and tell us why they would not support a proposal that they themselves made 10 years ago. However, the rapporteur should not hear about this. After all, I think and thank you for the greetings from Mr Kolind, moreover, that I do not have an answer to the fact that the last time this proposal was put forward, there were also vulnerable councils; that is, when the Socialists tabled this proposal at the end, together with the parties I have mentioned, there were already postponed councils. Why, then, is it a problem when it is put forward now that there are exposed councils in advance? Does the rapporteur know how many vulnerable councils existed at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192230	No, I'm not aware of that. 17 now I'm told here. It is of course crucial that where there are exposed councils, they work very well and can provide a good sparring for the municipalities. So I would just like to say to the rapporteur's a bit of crass comment: he is himself part of a small party that I do not actually think it is fair when you give a greeting and give support to the area covered by the rapporteur's proposal and when a personal and well-founded explanation has been given to me. By the way, it is customary in here that small parties can bring it that way. So I actually think you should try to separate things and say that this is about politics. It's about the people we want to do something extra for. And it has to be said that it is politically right to have to lift this area and be clear about it. I also think that we have a minister who has so much taken the lead in wanting something in this area. But let politics be politics, that is, party commentaries. And then I would say that it is very real what the rapporteur makes of comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192338	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192340	I'm afraid I didn't understand, and it's hard to regret it. I simply did not understand the rapporteur's crass comment. What I was asking was why it is that the Socialists will not vote in favour of a resolution which they themselves tabled back in time. If the rapporteur now says that the rapporteur is totally against the Minister, then I do not understand why we should be criticized for not indicating funding, that is, when the rapporteur's party did not do so at the time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192411	I think there is the answer to the question once. My previous comment did not in fact go to the proposal that has been put forward, which contains some good tactics in terms of wanting to put people at risk, and which I also think there is a breeding ground for in the Folketing. What my comment was about is that there are small parties that are not present and can give their opinion. That is what my comment on the rapporteur was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192441	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192451	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the alternative for focusing on the vulnerable here tonight in the Assembly. It can be said that with this motion for a resolution, the alternative wants the necessary legislative proposals to be made before the end of the parliamentary year that the country's municipalities should be obliged to set up local vulnerable councils. I would actually like to start by saying that I think it is sympathetic and I would also say that the Left supports these intentions, because I do agree that it is really important that we also provide an increased opportunity for user involvement in relation to the socially vulnerable. On the other hand, perhaps I do not entirely agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution as it stands. One of my concerns is that the proposers, like us, want us to push this down the throats of the remaining municipalities more or less. There are 41 municipalities today, I believe, which have already set up these vulnerable councils, and of course they should be praised for that, and I hope that, perhaps even by debating this in the Parliament, there are several municipalities that also see that this is a good idea and that we may take it up on our own. The fact that, through coercion, one can say, it is stabbed in the throats of the municipalities, I think, is the wrong way to go, and in the Left we actually keep a long way along the road of this being done through voluntaryness and that it also grows up from below. Now I hardly dare say that, but there is no funding for the proposal either. Now I am curious whether the rapporteur has found something back from 10-12 years ago, when someone from the Left made a proposal without funding, but I dare to say that we simply cannot see from the proposal how to find the money for this proposal. Finally, I would also like to say that if the authors of the motion for a resolution want to work with some kind of report or something on this proposal, we would like to take a look at it, because I also think that, if we cannot find the money, we might encourage the municipalities to do so together with some of the advice they already have around the municipalities, possibly with disability councils or senior management, because then perhaps there could also be room in some municipalities for those who are at risk in the same council. It is just an idea that I would actually like to talk to the authors of the motion for a resolution about. However, as I said, we will not be voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192745	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192750	I thought it was a nice speech. Perhaps I should be careful not to provoke too much, because if I am really good, I think I may be able to gather the support of the rapporteur, perhaps also of the Minister, to create a pool where we can support the creation of new vulnerable councils. This is not something that the rapporteur of the Left should stand and promise right here. But no, I have not researched the past of the Left in relation to these proposals. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the Left has supported the idea of setting up disability councils and senior management councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192826	Yeah, I think we definitely do. Now I don't remember when it was going on, but I mean it. I think it is really important that we ensure user involvement around the municipalities. I also think it is very important that this is done far along the way by volunteering, because even if you can say that we have been exposed throughout the country, it is not certain that this is the same way you want to get things together in a small municipality like Fanø compared to, for example, the United Kingdom. in Copenhagen. That is why, in fact, I think it is very important that this is something that the civilian population and the town council members around the country work together on when it comes to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192909	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192911	I actually pressed myself out again, because I really thought the rapporteur had some very fine answers. I hope that we will continue to work on this. I think we need to find a little lever to get this spread out in all the municipalities. I am afraid that these are some of the municipalities where it is most important that we do so where we may fail to do so. So I'm just looking forward to getting this sorted out somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192940	But I can only say that I am also looking forward to further work and I am quite sure that this is not the last time we are discussing this issue in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192946	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204192955	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we look with great sympathy at the proposal here. We think it is positive that we will take care of the vulnerable and the weak and that we will listen to them. So do we. In fact, that is why we have as a priority to provide for a strict immigration policy precisely so that we can afford, time and opportunity to take care of one's own weak and vulnerable, instead of using resources on people who come from outside and do not have the same legitimate expectation or can have the same legitimate expectation that we take care of them, or instead of having a broken society where this cohesion that makes us feel an obligation to the weak disappears. It is very important that it is there. So we clearly think it is a sympathetic proposal and we would like to take a positive view of it in committee work. There are things we need to ask about. Among other things: We would also like to know how much it costs. But we would also like to know exactly how much coercion, if I may say so, must lie in it. Because as we see it, there is a difference between municipality and municipality. So we imagine that it is best if things happen in close local cooperation with the vulnerable groups you have in your municipality. Therefore, it would of course be best if it came from below by itself. So the question of how to put it into practice is a little difficult. Because can you just come up with a command in here from Christiansborg and say, "Now do you have to?" We are not quite sure about that, but we would like to take a positive view of it and ask some clarification in the committee work and see how far we can go with it. So thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193154	Thank you for a fine speech and, I think, for the time being, the most constructive words about this idea that everyone should have a vulnerable council. Now it is logic for chickens that this proposal is not being voted through here. But without having to commit the rapporteur, I hope that the rapporteur will help to consider whether we might be able to make some sort of lever. It may be a small pool from the reserve, or it may be other ways in which we inspire the municipalities to be able to do this themselves. Could it be an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193233	Now I am a guest in the area today and have been given instructions on what to say. So the thing about promising something that we did not mention at the group meeting today will be very, very difficult. However, I would like to promise that the right rapporteur will take a positive view of what he has told me to tell you here and, of course, also take a positive view of this proposal. But I certainly can't promise to say yes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193257	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193258	Then I will discuss it further with the excellent social rapporteur Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, with whom we already do lots of good things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193309	Well, I think that's the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193311	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193321	It is important that we pay constant attention to how we can make democracy more accessible, strengthen local influence and the voice of citizens and ensure a framework for dialogue and cooperation between citizens and elected representatives. That is why I would like to thank the alternative for highlighting that, of course, we should have the same approach to challenges in the field of risk, so that people with different problems and experiences from a life of exposure also have the opportunity to be heard and involved; for that is the essence of this proposal. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to put forward legislative proposals to make it compulsory for municipalities to set up a vulnerable council. Like the proposers, the SF believes that it should be ensured that the voices of the socially disadvantaged are also heard in local political work. And, of course, when we want to improve the conditions for socially vulnerable people, it makes sense to listen to the people who are affected by the policy we are pursuing. The question then is whether this is something we should regulate by Christiansborg's law. Although I very much agree with the aim of the proposal, I am in doubt about the means. And even though SF 10 years ago I might as well get a little ahead of it... has been co-sponsors of a similar proposal, we are now in doubt as to whether a statutory requirement for municipalities is the way. I have asked a few questions from people who have been on senior management councils, on disability councils and on vulnerable councils in some of the 41 municipalities with vulnerable councils, and I hear a lot of different experiences. For example, real involvement presupposes that a council does not simply legitimise decisions under the guise of having been informed and listened to. It must be advice that politicians will listen to, and where it works well, there is broad support for the councils, where there are relevant representatives of the users and where the council has some formal competences. There is certainly good experience to build on. I hear from several that the vulnerable councils act as important social partners, and there are more and more municipalities that create vulnerable councils. But there are also municipalities where a commitment to a exposed council may not make as much sense. For example: I hear about places where it is limited by the number of active people who participate in the Council's work, among other things. because of the size of the municipality, or about places where the council is being closed down again, because it has not been possible to recruit for it. There may also be municipalities which go other ways in terms of citizen involvement. Municipalities are very different at all and we must be careful not to impose uniform requirements. Some of the experience I have, for example. has heard, not only from vulnerable councils, but also from disability councils and senior management councils, that it is very difficult in some places to get someone to run, but also that sometimes questions are raised about how much it really is moving for them. There may be unconstructive struggles between different groups of politicians, officials and representatives of citizens or strong groupings that are on the agenda. And in some places the councils actually consist primarily of representatives rather than the directly affected citizens. So we believe that it should be up to the local authorities themselves to decide whether or not to set up councils, because municipalities vary as they do. It has to make sense locally. And perhaps this is also a different path to the municipalities than this one with more constraints and rules. However, I think, on the basis of this motion for a resolution, that we need to be wiser. In other words, for the sake of the overview, it might be appropriate to ask how the municipalities are today fulfilling the tasks that a exposed council has to carry out both those who have set up vulnerable councils, but also those who do not. There may be many ways to do that, and it must be outcome that is the most important thing. Vulnerable advice may be one way to increase user involvement, but could one possibly imagine that one would first make a collection of experience from the already existing 41 exposed councils and perhaps also the disability and elderly councils to find out at what level these councils are involved, how they are put together and what effect they have on democracy and on involvement? So SF supports the purpose of strengthening democracy and involvement, but we think we need to become wiser before we make them statutory. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we would really like to contribute to a report in which we will have a closer look at how the municipalities work with citizen involvement, not least in relation to those who have the most difficulty in speaking out and having influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193811	Well, it's actually a really good idea to try to pick up some of the experiences that are from senior management, from disability councils and from vulnerable councils. Of course, it has to work out there, and it is clear that when you make such advice, you also open up the possibility that there may be problems with it. So collecting something best practice and seeing what they do there, where they do it completely optimally, we think is a super good idea. I have to say that I have had many motions for resolutions voted down, but I think that of the resolutions that have been voted down, this is what has been most praised ever. So I will probably come up with some suggestions on how we can find a way to get the last municipalities in. We could, for example. support them through the reserve or anything else. I hope that the SF rapporteur, without being able to promise anything today, will be in favour of such a kind of approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193857	Well, this whole thing about having positive incentives for citizen involvement, even when it comes to creating advice, we are positive about. However, I also think that the rapporteur of the alternative should consider precisely whether we can draw up a report which will enable us to actually get a collection of experience. Because a lot of things have happened since disability councils, senior management councils and vulnerable councils have been set up around here, and I actually think we need to learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193924	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193927	I think that's a fine advice. I hope that the rapporteur's party will then also help to find a small amount of money for it, because that will be the next challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193935-2	I can't promise that yet, but I actually think that giving positive incentives, possibly through the economy or by supporting it in other ways to get it going, is generally a better idea than making it by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204193953	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194004	Thank you. I would also like to begin by commending the alternative to the proposal. I was actually very pleased when I read it because I think there are some good intentions and, in this way, have a great deal of sympathy for the idea behind the proposal, so I would like to commend the alternative for that. I also think that it is important to involve the citizens, to involve the vulnerable, in matters which concern them. If we do not agree with this motion for a resolution, it is simply a matter of our thinking that it should be up to the individual municipality to decide whether or not to set up this vulnerable council. The municipalities are very different, and I think it is incredibly positive that almost half of the municipalities have set up this vulnerable council. I think that is a good thing. But I think it should be up to the individual municipal council to decide whether that is something to be reduced. Fortunately, there are also many other opportunities to be heard in matters relating to citizens in the individual municipalities. However, I would like to pay tribute to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see that new citizens have taken part in the negotiations, so the next party in the rapporteur's line is the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194139	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of vulnerable councils in all the municipalities that want them, and there we are in the happy situation today, that if a municipality wants to have a vulnerable council, it can be reduced, and we do not need to change that in such a way that we force all municipalities to have a vulnerable council, even if they do not think it fits into their municipality. That is why we are voting against this resolution and New Citizens have asked me to say that they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194207	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. It is also noted that there was a greeting from New Citizens. Then it has become the rapporteur for the proposer's turn, and that is Mr Seligman's turn. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194231	Thank you. The alternative today suggests that the Danish Parliament decides that all municipalities in Denmark should have a vulnerable council, just as they have an elderly council and a disability council. I think that we are talking about a great deal about it. We can see that it already works in a number of municipalities, and we want to give vulnerable people the privilege that it will work throughout the country. I often experience that we become wise when we ask people who are homeless for suggestions as to what to do about homelessness. I also find that when you ask people with mental disorders about how to move forward, they have really good ideas about how to give them the best help and support. The same is true when you ask addicts how best to get rid of abuse. When you ask people affected by poverty, social challenges, mental and physical illnesses, which support would be best for them to get out of their exposure, I always think you get some really good and qualified answers. Often exposed people are the greatest experts on their own lives, and the solutions they have for their own lives can actually very, very often be used against other people who are in the same situation. This has affected my social policy development a great deal, so I am using what is now called deep bottom-up policy development. In Danish one can call it policy development that is happening from the bottom up. It comes from the fact that in the alternative, we have always developed politics together with everyone who was interested in it. It is a long process and it is not always simple, but it has led to a 600 pages long crowdsurfing, member-approved political program. As far as I was concerned, just when I was new to Christiansborg, we had to develop homeless politics, and then we went out to the homeless and asked them if they wanted to help us with it. And they came up with ideas and said: It's incredibly important to get under the roof, whether it's in a caravan, in a trailer, in an apartment or in a community; first and foremost, we have to get under the roof. But they said in the same breath we need help to live under that roof. And whether it's an abuse or a social phobia that prevents us from living there, we need to get under roof... Any roof is better than the bench... but we need immediate help to learn how to live under that roof. We took that with us and wrote into our first street package, and when I got a little smarter and researched a little more, I found out that it's called Housing First and that it works super well in Finland, where you actually try to eradicate homelessness using Housing First. I think this is a fantastic example of the fact that the homeless themselves have a great deal of expertise in relation to the situation they are in. I have also experienced it when I was a week on the streets of Aarhus as a homeless person. There were many who said: Many of us are abusers, and we need urgent, lightning-fast help when we have finally got a motivation to get out of our abuse • it may be that we have found a boyfriend; it may be that we will have resumed contact with our children; it may be many things • and then the help should be there immediately and not 3 weeks after you have ended up back in the gutter. Fortunately, we have adopted something similar here in the Folketing recently, where we are giving these people emergency aid, and I wonder if that is something that has leaked off the street. A third example is that many homeless people who also have diagnoses have said to me: our problem is that we cannot get treatment because if you have a diagnosis and an abuse, you cannot get treatment for your diagnosis as long as you have an abuse and you cannot get treatment for your abuse as long as you have a diagnosis. These are also wise words from the bottom of society that I hope we will soon respond to here in the Folketing. So I have experienced over and over again that if you want good ideas to solve problems, it is an incredibly good idea to ask those who are affected by the problems, and that is why, of course, I also became very interested when my temp, Mira Issa Bloch, suggested that we in Denmark should have a vulnerable council. I had a discussion prolapse at some point, and she was a substitute for me here in the Folketing, and she comes from Skanderborg City Council, where she fights for this. She said, Torsten, we're gonna have an exposed council... we're gonna have a vulnerable council in all municipalities. When we had then written the motion for a resolution, and I prepared myself for this debate, I found that this proposal had actually been made by a large number of parties long before we came to Parliament, so I thought: then my little happiness is done. After all, it will be possible for once to get a motion for a resolution through. But it obviously means a lot that there are not 17 municipalities that have already done this. This means so much that it is one of the reasons why the proposal is not adopted. It is of course a pity, because I think we can do something here to ensure that all municipalities do this. Maybe it'll cost $150,000. a year • some municipalities make it for 75,000 kroner. A year's time and that's money of an order of magnitude that we can find. It may be that we can do it in a future financial law, and it may be that we can do it with a reserve. So I am actually happy, and of course I hung up a little, because the proposal has been given so much praise, and I think we should change it and report to the next reserve negotiations and propose whether we can create a pool that can inspire the last municipalities to get this done. I also think it is an excellent proposal from the SF to try to bring together some of the experiences of older people's councils, disability councils and other places where people's experience is involved, because they are such great experts in their own lives, to solve the problems they have in their daily lives. So although I really do not think I got so much out of it and I had hoped a little more, I would particularly like to thank DF for having actually looked at it so positively, and thanks to SF for a good idea, and in general thanks for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194846	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There is no wish for short remarks to Mr. Torsten Gejl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200204194911	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 5 February 2020 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
