ParlaMint-DK_20200611100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Prime Minister (Mette Frederiksen): Motion for a resolution No. B 184 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the receipt by Prince Joachim of annual money outside the realm of Hans Royal Highness). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100026	The item listed as No. 5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100040	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Well, I guess we got it figured out. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 11 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100527	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Thank you, Members who are abstaining, Mr President. 3, specified manner). In favour of 69 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 26 (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100753	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611100807	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 1 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101022	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Hans Christian Schmide as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101051	Thank you. In a moment, the Danish Parliament will adopt L 166, Draft law on the development and operation of Flight Station Skrydstrup. A proposal which I had actually looked forward to voting in favour of but I cannot. Firstly, we have not succeeded in adopting an amendment which divides up the proposal so that we could have adopted a start-up of the new installation at Flystation Skrydstrup as planned and at the same time given a little more time to process the compensation model. Another possibility had been that the Minister had been a little more responsive to the neighbours most affected. The Minister did not want that, as I see it, and I will shortly review some of the issues that the Minister did not want to listen to. However, the conclusion is that since I cannot support the compensation model in the draft law in its present form, I am forced to vote against the entire legislative proposal, and I will do so. In particular, when I cannot support the compensation model, this is due to the fact that on crucial points there is a discrepancy between the contractual basis between the conciliation parties dated 15 November 2019 and the way in which this agreement is implemented in the legislative proposal and in the proposal for the two ministerial decrees. The compensation proposal before us does not therefore include the full noise picture as agreed. This has the effect that the decisive border crossing between the zones is not true, as several properties are supposed to be included under the red zone, for example. Similarly, there is a significant discrepancy, in particular with regard to the red-yellow zone border, and in the compensation proposal it has been drawn up in the form of a line-drain. That's what you call a median, that's a midline. That line should mark the boundary between the noise calculations for maximum noise of 100 dB and for average noise of 55 dB, but this cannot be done with the basis of assessment there, so compared to what the calculation model is based on, it cannot be done. There is no such sharp line-draining, as it is precisely shown in the calculation material and I assume this has all been achieved by including an uncertainty factor of plus/minus 4 dB for the maximum noise and plus/minus 3 dB for average noise. If we are to take account of the citizens rather than the state, we must of course ensure that a belt has been drawn instead of a calculating sound zone of 8 dB and 6 dB respectively, and that the line drawn has taken the form of this centre line in such a sound band instead of an outer limit to the possibility of 100 dB maximum noise and 55 dB average noise respectively. It's good for the state, but it's bad for the citizens. And transferred to the compensation proposal would mean, for example, that the buildings marked with 96 dB on the two annexes to the compensation notice should be included under the red zone, on the grounds that the 100 dB could be exceeded. Similar regulation should be made as far as average limits are concerned. In addition, the compensation model contains a highly unfair and unbiased discrimination between neighbours with exactly the same noise problem where, as a result of a calculated maximum noise limit of 100 dB, the one located in the red zone is offered a sales right at full trading value. We are therefore talking about full compensation, even if you call it compensation. But the immediate neighbour, just up to where the maximum noise is calculated at 99.9 dB, is offered a compensation solution of DKK 70,000, which may correspond to 5-7 per cent of the market value. This flagrant discrimination is without justification in the draft law's observations. I've been looking for it. It doesn't exist. The second thing that can be said about this is, of course, that I think it lacks any objectivity in its basis. There should be a transitional zone with a phasing-out model for noise and compensation, that is, what is called an orange zone. I will end by saying 'and I am sorry to say so, because when you have had the pleasure of being in here for many years, I still think it is sad that today I have to be left with an experience that it has been more important for the Minister to show that she is in charge and that she does not have to listen to anyone. It is sad, and it doesn't have to be like that, and fortunately it's not that often we see it either. I hope that in future the Minister will try to listen more to the various stakeholders while ensuring that future processes will be transparent and open. I am thinking, among other things, of a democratic problem which I hope we will all help each other to resolve: it is therefore not right that we should be able to use a report from the DA to argue that we are right. But when someone asks if you want to hand it over, they say you don't want to. So, either you have to keep it within yourself and not use it publicly, or if you use it publicly, you have to put it under democratic control too, so that we can see it. And I've seen it, and I don't have the same experience of what the DA thinks the minister has. I have to inform you that, for the above reasons, I cannot vote in favour of the draft law. For me, it's a sad day. And that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101623	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? We're helping each other a little in this difficult situation, so sir... Hans Christian Schmidt must go down again, and then Mr. Bjarne Laustsen on the platform. We'll take whatever time it takes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101705	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity to ask Mr. Hans Christian Schmide one question. - Sir... Hans Christian Schmidt confirm that the Left, as the contracting party, fully agrees with the government and the conciliation circle that this is a very good solution and that it is ten times better than what the former Secretary of Defense of the Left presented to the conciliation circle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101730	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101734	In these times I am used to hearing that the government constantly tells me that it is quite unsurpassed, so I don't think I have to say anything about that, because the government is completely aware of itself that you have never seen anything like it. So I guess if mr. Bjarne Laustsen would like an answer to the question, he can start by reading the contribution to the report, because there you can read everything about what the Left thinks. All the questions that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has put forward an exact response to the report's contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101810	Thank you. And here you go with a new question from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101816	What remains is that it is strange that the Left has agreed to an agreement in which they fully agree that we have tenfolded the regime that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, on behalf of the VLAK government, then presented the conciliation circle. It has been an improvement for those neighbours who are going to suffer from this noise here, and so I am glad that the Left and Social Democrats, Conservatives and the other parties in the conciliation circle think this is a good arrangement. I have to note today that it will be the case when we vote that Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt will vote with Enhedslisten. I think that is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101857	Thank you. Sir. Hans Christian Schmid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101901	I have experienced a lot in my time here in the Danish Parliament, but that I should be taught by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen about what it's like to be against your party! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101921	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611101933	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 74 (S, V, DF, RV, KF and LA) voted against 10 (Hans Christian Schmidt (V), EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 11 (SF and NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102239	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102300	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 5 (NB and LA), against voting 89 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), abstentions 1 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102519	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102541	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). For 40 votes (V, DF, KF and NB), against 54 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102841	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611102901	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF and LA) voted against 12 (EL, NB, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103125	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103146	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA) voted against 9 (EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103352	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille would like to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103414	Unfortunately, since I did not have the opportunity to be present at first reading, but I think that the proposal is still so good that it deserves a few words, I intend to give it. After all, it is now seven years since the then SRSF government, together with the Left and the Conservative People's Party, chose to change our public law into a blackout law, and it has in fact since then been a stain on our popular rule and on our desire to have an open society. The Folketing simply chose to shield the government from its own citizens. Over the past seven years, we have repeatedly tried to put an end to this cover-up law, so that there could be more openness for citizens, so that there could be more openness for journalists, so that there could be more openness for organisations, so that there could be more openness for companies, but unfortunately it has been unsuccessful. But it's progressing. Today, only the Left and the Socialists are opposed, so perhaps there is hope. In these coronatides we can see that more power has been given to the government than ever before in peacetime, and it has also been the case that some of those who are not usually so concerned with openness have suddenly become more concerned with openness. Yes, I have even seen that the Left has been co-signed by a manifesto of openness, so hope may be there. It's better with an inverted sinner. It is good to see that the Left, with delay, is now in favour of more openness, and I can only appeal to the great liberal party to press the government on this matter. If we have the Left with us, we have achieved transparency. We need a genuine public law again. In my opinion, openness should be a common priority for all of us in the Danish People's Rule. For me and the Party Forward, it's at least a matter of heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103637	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103643	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). For 40 votes (DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 55 votes (S, V and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611103943	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Can I have some rest for a second? There are still some things that need to be read out. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104014	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-23, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I think there is so much quiet that we can move on to the next point. That's where I'd like to ask you to calm down. If you're gonna talk, you're gonna go out into the grip or outside. That's general respect, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104155	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104203	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (SF) joined by a minority (DF and NB) as rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (SF) joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5 elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 6 of a minority (SF) joined by a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104350	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. He's not here. Then we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104428	Excuse me, President, we were just doing some parliamentary work in the sidelines. But thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to discuss this debate on the various international organisations. After all, it is an annual travert, and it is also a good travert, because it is the case that we actually have a great deal to discuss, not least in relation to organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE, but also in relation to the whole Baltic region, which, unfortunately, is an increasingly high-strong area to which we are also a party here in the Kingdom. Let's take it from the end. There is no doubt that what is happening in Russia at the moment is extremely worrying. Now it seems that there will be a date for a referendum on constitutional changes, which will be 1 July. These are constitutional changes which, on the one hand, seem to make Russia even more undemocratic, even more authoritarian and, above all, centre power even more around one, but, on the other hand, it is equally worrying that it actually seems to be in direct contradiction with what it said yes to when it joined the Council of Europe. That is why I have to admit that I find it deeply disgraceful that the Russian Government and, for that matter, the Duma are simply saying 'yes' to these constitutional changes before, for example. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has given their opinion on whether this is now in line with the rules and laws of the Council of Europe. You just do this. The latest report is that the Venice Commission will be able to have their answer ready in the autumn, perhaps not until December, in relation to giving their opinion; that is, up to perhaps six months after these constitutional amendments have been adopted in a referendum. It's deeply disgraceful. And that is where we will have to see an active government from here. Because I know that when you go outside this room and talk about the court in Strasbourg or talk about the Council of Europe, nine out of ten Danes, maybe even ten out of ten, will think that we are talking about some European Union. But here we have an organisation of which all countries in Europe, minus Belarus, are members, including Denmark. And that is why we also have to get the Danish Government to take responsibility and make sure that it also puts it here in relation to Russia on the agenda, because it is actually the only body we have where we can put the Russian Government fully to account for the extremely negative developments into which it has been thrown. In addition, we are also experiencing a large number of other negative developments. We see it especially in countries such as Hungary, and we see it in countries such as Poland. And it is important to bear in mind that we can, of course, do everything we can on the part of the various organisations to ensure that the very, very negative developments that exist are at least addressed. I find it deeply disgraceful that the judicial reform that has been implemented, particularly in Poland, is being carried out, and that is why it is quite appropriate that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has chosen to put Poland under monitoring. I think that is quite appropriate. As far as Hungary is concerned, the country is also under monitoring, and that is not going to be very good, but it is certainly important that we do everything we can to talk about it as well. For the two countries should be in a league separately. After all, as EU Member States, they should be at a completely different level without the negative distortion that they are doing now. So all in all, I have to admit that I think Europe is becoming more and more dangerous. I believe that Europe is becoming increasingly undemocratic. And there is what we need to use the various organizations we have to simply make sure to shout guardly in the rifle. And we should also be able to expect the Danish Government to take a leading role in the various organisations, not least in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, where possible. In the last few seconds that I have left of my speaking time, I would particularly like to thank the Council of Europe, where we have very, very close cooperation with the Danish representation down in Strasbourg, to thank the ambassador and his people for the very close cooperation there and for their willingness to always discuss with us. It is not always there is agreement between the government's officials and then the parliamentary members, but we always have good, sensible debates. So thank you so much. And, above all, thank you for your cooperation with the other members of the delegation from the other parties. I think we have sound cooperation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104932	Thank you. It does not appear that anyone has asked to speak, so we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611104950	Thank you very much and thank you for your statement, which I have read with great interest. I would just like to touch on a few points, to which I would also like answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First of all, I would like to mention that it seems that in the various fora in which Denmark is part of there can be traced, I think, some normalisation in relation to Russia. I think that is a positive development, and that is also being discussed, for example. in the Council of Europe, where they now participate in the Parliamentary Assembly in a perfectly normal manner and Ukraine has subsequently joined. Speaking to Russia, the fact that Russia is on its way to becoming a country that is being talked to, I think is important. Somewhere in the text the Government's ambition is to turn its back on the crisis with Russia. I think that's a good play, certainly. As I said, they returned in June 2019 after 5 years of absence from the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Then there is a little about the European Court of Human Rights. It is mentioned in connection with the Court of Human Rights that there have been a whole lot of cases, and we knew that in advance. But then it is mentioned that there are almost 60 000 pending cases, but in other words two very few Danish cases before the court. But then this year, in 2020, two Danish cases will be dealt with at the highest court, which is called the Grand Chamber, which only deals with such most important and fundamental cases. There I am interested to hear what these are some things about which these two very important matters are concerned. That is not mentioned in the statement. There is also talk of these monitoring activities at the Court of Human Rights, where various countries are being watched, and I would like to know whether they are taking place in relation to Ukraine, which has, of course, been very much accused or accused, for example. to allow anti-Semitism and has also been criticised for homosexuals. I know, for example, that many Jews maybe hundreds, perhaps thousands, have actually left Ukraine after this government came into existence. I would like to know whether we are also keeping a close eye on what is happening in Ukraine. That is the way things are in that country, what should we say surfed by, because our attention has been paid to Russia. And they have been there to a great extent. It should also be mentioned, it says, that negotiations on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights will now be restarted in the coming months after several years. What does it mean for the EU to accede to the Convention on Human Rights? I thought it was the individual countries, but perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have to clarify that for me. Then there is the Baltic Sea Council, where Russia is also a major member, as they actually were before. It says here in the statement: "With the meeting of Foreign Ministers under the Danish Presidency, the government hopes to set a precedent for future Foreign Ministers meetings of the Baltic Council and to show that the organisation can once again be used for regional dialogue with all countries in the region, including Denmark. Russia. Then there is the section on defence and security and the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. This is something that we very much welcome in the Danish People's Party, that is to say that it has now begun to look more formally at the cooperation. There has always been a certain degree of cooperation between countries, but now we really are going to get started, including, what should we say, formally. The government then says that there is no vision that Nordic defence cooperation should be a military alliance. I am a little sorry about that, because that vision has our party decided. So I would ask for that to be changed; for a real decision. Finally, I do not have much time left, I can see that I am pleased that the Home Guard is thus being highlighted as a unit that has been participating for 50 years in the cooperation on the development of the Home Guards in Norway, Sweden and Finland. It is truly unique that in this way it is the Home Guard that leads this discussion and, like, brings with them the other real defence institutions. But all in all, I think it's been an interesting thing to read, and there were just these little things that I'd like an explanation for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105524	Thank you. I should like to say that we have 5 minutes for the OSCE, the Council of Europe and Søren Espersen. I have taken it all now. I'm sorry! ) Yes, I could hear that. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105545	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I stumbled a little over the fact that the rapporteur was talking about the LGBTI area in Ukraine, and I get a little curious about it. For last week we had a debate in this Chamber where the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party did not think there was a particular reason to pay attention to the rights oflgbti in Hungary, for example. And we have discussed this in the past with regard to the persecution of people in Lebanon in Russia, where it has also been said a little that it is up to the countries themselves to make their own legislation. Does the Danish People's Party believe that this is a particular area that we should be aware of in international organisations so that we do not see any other Member State, whatever it is in the EU, the OSCE or the Council of Europe, that is pursuing the people of Glbti?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105631	I can say that, of course, we think that each country should decide for itself here, even when it is now in full swing in a lot of countries to examine these matters which are certainly serious. We do not tolerate in our party that someone in this way discriminates against homosexuality. We don't. But we think that each country should decide. And there I just mean: I think that Ukraine is so surfed past that's what I said about our retina, because we've been in full swing with what's happening in Poland and what's happening in Hungary etc. In that field? And then there was the Jewish thing I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105705	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105706	Unfortunately, however, we see lgbti people being persecuted in a number of countries, and it is being raised in international forums, and it is also being raised here in the Folketing. And I really think it would be nice to hear the Danish People's Party also support the criticism of Russia and also of Poland and Hungary when we see this persecution, and not only strike down on it when it fits in with a discourse, but actually be a bit of principle about this. Because we see people being persecuted because of their sexual orientation, their gender identity or gender expressions in very many countries. Unfortunately, this is increasing and there is a need for a position of principle in the Folketing as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105743	But we do not tolerate acts of violence against homosexuals, Jews or other minority groups, of course we do not. But our position is that each country must decide its own destiny. That does not mean that you cannot criticise it. We certainly think we can do that, even through these fora that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105801	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. We move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611105813	So there has been some confusion about whether we take the organisations separately or one at a time and we take them one at a time, I think that is the intention. By the way, we had the same discussion last year, and it might be worth considering taking them together, but I leave it to the higher powers to look at that. The OSCE is an organisation that few Danes have a close relationship with, let alone know, what is going on in it. I can also safely say, from my time as Foreign Minister, that some of the meetings that were held in that forum were not the most exciting or unpredictable of the kind. And yet it happens from time to time that the organization enters into character and actually has a meaning. And the last time that really happened was in connection with the Ukraine crisis, which is one of the frozen conflicts that we are still working with, where Russia annexed Crimea, and where we suddenly found here a forum where we could talk across the table, could try to get negotiations going and formally still have negotiations going on about how to deal with this. Here the organization was, as it were, dusted off and proved its justification. We appreciate that. It was also slightly in relation to the same parameter, albeit on a smaller scale, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was pleased to see that the opinion of the organization had been found. First of all, I thought that it was a fun forum to comment on the United States, but it makes very good sense when you think about it, because it is precisely European and with a region, if I may say so, that allows it. What more can the organization be used for? Could you go more offensively into that? I would say that there are a great many forums where we can work on foreign policy, but I think that history takes account of the fact that, where there might be room to think a little offensively, there is in relation to what might be called the Eastern neighborhood, that is, the countries that lie between the EU countries and Russia. I am thinking of Ukraine, I am thinking of Moldova, I am thinking of Georgia, and so I am also thinking of the Balkans: all countries that are currently in some kind of tension between the European Union and Russia, and who so need some forums to fertilise the democratic forces, to find their own legs, to find an association with Europe, and which are not just about to jump into the European Union, even though some of them are actually now associated with the European Union. Could the organization be used more offensively there? Also because it has to happen in somebody, you might say, balance with Russia. Could it be a way to go? Otherwise, I do not have much more to say about the OSCE right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110114	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110134	It is, of course, the recurring discussion about splitting it up or taking those discussions together, and it always ends up a little in chaos. Now I would like to concentrate on the OSCE first and, in fact, thank you for your statement. It is actually an important work that is going on and I myself have been in the parliamentary part of the OSCE. What I really would like to raise are the priorities of the Danish side in OSCE cooperation. When we talk about security and stability, there is, of course, both the economic and the environmental aspects which are so important today. Especially when we look at developments in relation to climate, biodiversity and nature, this is one of the places I think we need to focus more strongly on the future from Denmark, because we know that the pressure on natural resources unfortunately also means conflicts around us. So it is actually mostly a desire to be obscene to the priorities that have been set by Denmark in OSCE cooperation, and a desire that we may also begin to concentrate more on the dimension of economic and environmental issues, on which we have not spent so much gunpowder on the Danish side. Then there is the whole issue of rights. I think we should remember to be extremely clear about this. I think it has been nice to see the Foreign Minister being very clear in the EU context and in the context of the Council of Europe. We come back to that because there we have at least to the parliamentary assemblies sometimes raised the issue of human rights with other countries and parliamentarians from other countries. And that is something I think should be an important Danish priority all the way around in all the cooperation we are involved in, namely that we stand up for the individual's right to be who you are. So it has to be the words from me in the first part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110336	Thank you. There are no brief comments on this. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110349	Thank you for the floor. As far as the OSCE is concerned, we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party think it is a very important piece of work that is going on in this organisation. The Foreign Minister also writes in the statement that right now the OSCE is being marked by some very sharp dividing lines of value policy between the Western countries on the one hand and Russia and Turkey and Vatican City and Azerbaijan and some of the others on the other. I would say that is also recognised by the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, at least that is what our Member is telling us. And one of the things that can be said most clearly, shows the dividing line, is also that you have a number of countries that treat political minorities very, very badly. This also means that political minorities are not only subjected to harassment and repression, but are also imprisoned and given long prison sentences. One of the examples that we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are working very hard on is the whole situation in Turkey. In the municipal elections just over a year ago, the left-wing and democratic party HDP won the majority and mayor posts in 65 municipalities. That's a lot. Today they have only 12 of the municipalities left, for the rest of the municipalities have been placed under the administration of the Erdogan regime, or also these HDP mayors have been deprived of their posts and many of them have been put in prison. The trend towards political repression has, in fact, only got worse here during the Corona crisis, where it is not so easy to monitor what is going on, and therefore we also think that the OSCE could actually be used even more actively to ensure that politicians who are imprisoned or oppressed are supported. One of the things we are going to propose is that we should be inspired by what is known as the IPU, the Interparliamentary Union, which has a committee which monitors whether parliamentarians are being imprisoned and so on. around the world. Perhaps it was something that could be strengthened even more and be in the OSCE's focus. On the whole, we think it is very, very important that we firmly support this human rights agenda, especially here during the Corona crisis, where it has become even harder to be politically active and defend democratic rights around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110623	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110630	Thanks to the government for the statement. It is important that we in Denmark support organisations and international communities which underpin cooperation and dialogue between countries and, in particular, the fight to promote democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. Those concepts are in several places in our neighbourhood under pressure. Turkey and Russia are some of the countries that are particularly pressing these values. Especially when it comes to security policy, it is in Danish interest that we support the international organisations in which we are engaged. The OSCE is an important tool for security and stability and, as a starting point, we support the government's main priorities. These are the three main priorities: (1) Ukraine's conflict and efforts to restore respect for our common principles and rules, in particular the Helsinki Final Act; (2) the human dimension and the work to strengthen human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the region; and (3) the implementation of strengthening conventional arms control agreements within the OSCE's political-military cooperation. These are three important priorities. One area I would like to have had the same priority or which was given a little more priority is cybersecurity. I know that this is being dealt with, but we would really like it to have the same priority as the other three points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110816	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611110842	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Government for the annual statement on the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Baltic Sea Council and the Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation. It's good to get an overview of these things. We shall start with the OSCE, which includes the OSCE. work to strengthen and improve conflict management and promote effective multilateralism. I have been with you for some years now as the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, and I have to say that this annual report is like a very welcome family visit. You know the guest in advance, so there is no reason to introduce yourself, and the amount of changes since the last visit is limited, but cozy it is. I also note this year that Denmark is making a great effort, and this is very positive at a time when the Ukraine conflict has not yet been resolved and when there are increasing problems with human rights in some of the Member States. We stress that the government has a commitment to these things. We appreciate that. I think it would, of course, be reprehensible to say that we should advertise a particular conflict; that is a completely wrong expression. But what I want to see is that I think that as politicians we can remind ourselves that the Ukraine conflict has not yet been resolved and that it affects the lives and welfare of many people. It is as if, when a conflict has been going on for some time, it is forgotten and not mentioned. The fact that it exists and has such an intrusive effect on many, many people, of course we should be aware of. It must not be forgotten. We shall then come back to the other points in the statement, but thank you for the statement on the OSCE for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611111057	Thank you. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611111110	Thank you, and I'm sorry I was late. As part of Denmark's overall multilateral efforts to secure the norm- and rule-based international system, which must be said to be challenged, Denmark contributes to the political and military dimension and the human dimension, human rights and democracy. The OSCE is challenged because of internal value dividing lines. Cooperation in the OECD is hampered primarily by Russia, which undermines basic principles, most clearly illustrated by its role in the conflict in Ukraine. Similarly, the OSCE is characterised by sharp dividing values between Western countries on the one hand, and Russia, Turkey, the Vatican City State, Azerbaijan and the Central Asian countries on the other. The differences are particularly evident when fundamental freedoms, the role of civil society, the free media and equality are discussed. Finally, there is fundamental disagreement about the role of civil society, the free media and gender equality. Denmark contributes 4.6 million. The Ukraine conflict and efforts to restore respect for our common principles and rules, in particular the Helsinki Treaty, and the human dimension, as well as the work to strengthen human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the OSCE, in particular the fight against torture, the protection and promotion of fundamental freedoms, freedom of the media and the rights of people with disabilities, are the main priorities of the government of the OSCE. Implementation and strengthening of conventional arms control agreements within the OSCE military and political work will continue, as these are the few formal forums where there remains an open channel between Russia and Western countries at expert level. A conventional arms control in Europe has been tried to modernise and update, and Denmark presented it together with a number of like-minded countries in October 2019, an ambitious modernisation proposal which is being promoted again in 2020, but due to Russian reluctance there is no prospect that the forced modernisation of the agreement can be implemented in a short time. Finally, sir. Søren Espersen around Ukraine, and I do not know how much this is going to fill in the debate: I know that it has been raised both in the OSCE but also in the Council of Europe, i.e. the concern about the situation of the Jews in Ukraine. I know that it is not so long ago that a police chief in Ukraine asked for the names and addresses of all Jewish citizens, and this is, of course, a very sad development which I know has been raised. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611111319	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611111331	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the rapporteurs. I shall then follow the order that I had been told there should be, namely to take the three different organisations separately. That is why I should like to say to Mr Seligman at this point. Søren Espersen: I hope to come back in the second place to my answer to some of the questions related to e.g. The Council of Europe so I hope there is understanding for that. However, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and for their interest and support in Denmark's work in the OSCE. I fully agree that the OSCE is a unique forum for promoting dialogue and cooperation on European security. It is an integral part of the rule-based international order, which in many ways is under pressure, as we have also discussed here. It can then be said that the consensus-based principle, as there is in the OSCE, means that the way to a decision can be long and cumbersome and, in particular, Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine and Georgia challenges cooperation in the OSCE. Since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea six years ago, the OSCE has engaged in Ukraine at the negotiating table of the Trilateral Contact Group on the implementation of the Minsk Agreement and in the field through the special monitoring mission that I know several of you know about. It is important that the conflict in Ukraine is maintained at the top of the OSCE agenda, and I believe that for many reasons. This is important also because we are dealing here with a conflict in which a sovereign European country does not see its sovereignty respected after the end of the cold war. And that is simply not right. Every free, democratic and sovereign country must decide its own territory. This is a fundamental European principle after the Cold War, and we must, of course, uphold it. The current covid-19 crisis is of great concern. And it can be said that the observers on the humanitarian aid mission are seeing Russian-supported separatists restricting access to the separatist-controlled area on the pretext of spreading infection. Unfortunately, we see that too. The mission is the largest international presence in Ukraine. It is the ears and eyes of the international community in the conflict. I also saw this on my own account when, at the beginning of February, I visited the contact line in eastern Ukraine and met with observers from this SMM mission. They are making an extremely important effort to ensure that the conflict does not escalate further. The OSCE is an important platform for human rights dialogue. Mrs Eva Flyvholm mentioned this. I think it is absolutely correct that it is very important that we keep that agenda high in the OSCE. Countries that do not comply with their international human rights obligations are reminded in the OSCE that they are on the wrong track. This is also true in the current health crisis, where individual Member States are taking advantage of this crisis for the sake of the freedom of expression and information, and this must of course be addressed. The OSCE is also a watchdog, and I do not think we should forget that either. This is an important role in the organisation of elections in the Member States through election observation. Many of you have participated in parliamentary election observations from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. This, of course, contributes both to observers, but also to directing election observation. And I would like to thank the many, including members of parliament, who have made an effort here. I think it's really, really important. The third priority, which has also just been mentioned by several people, which I think is perhaps a little overlooked, but is extremely important in the world in which we stand, is something that Denmark attaches importance to, namely the increased cooperation in the field of arms control in the OSCE. It is important that arms control agreements already concluded are implemented and strengthened, and this has not become less urgent after the US announcement of the intention to withdraw from Open Skies with effect from 22 November 2020. It is, of course, through the arms control agreements that we can promote military transparency and reduce tensions, and we need that, because then we will ultimately avoid getting into conflict situations and misinterpreting each other. This is an important, important role that we must not forget. So, although we have to note that the work has been stalled and, in several cases, directly in reverse due to the lack of Russian, I would like to conclude by saying to the rapporteurs, first of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Søren Espersen, in relation to a normalisation with Russia: what is the strength of this organization is that we have both European countries and North America together on European security and cooperation. That is what is so fundamental, that we also have the United States and Canada with us. And that is why, if you are from outside, you might see that this is an organization, even though it is an organisation for security and cooperation in Europe, where we also have North America, because this is a common matter. It is also important to deal with Russia, and that is where I have to say that the work we have in Ukraine is absolutely crucial, and it is also essential for the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. And if Russia honours its commitments, it is also possible one day, hopefully, that we can lift the sanctions against Russia. After all, they are based on Russia having to live up to its share of the Minsk agreement. That's what we're hoping for. At the same time, however, we must say that the behaviour of the Russian side is also evident in eastern Ukraine, and I myself have seen that it does not give any hope of great change. On the contrary, it is very much the same line. However, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the OSCE. I think it is a very important organisation and I think it is important both for the parliamentary part and for what we do at government level. Sir. Martin Lidegaard said that if you sit in Vienna and have meetings, it may not be there that you experience the great interest. But that is just the case, and I would like to say in general terms that conflict prevention work and conflict mitigation work are rarely the focus. Unfortunately, it is always only after it has gone wrong that everyone's attention is on it. We must never overlook the importance of avoiding this situation, which is why we must be pleased with the European security architecture; we have not only the OSCE, but also the other organisations and other forums. It is a way of contributing to a more peaceful world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611111957	Thank you. There are some comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112004	Thank you to the Secretary of State for that. Around the OSCE, I have to admit that I am rather sorry that the Minister is not going any further to the steel on whom the main responsibility lies for the fact that we have such a quick-frozen conflict, namely with Ukraine as we have. And that's Russia. I heard what the Minister said: that it was Russia's unwillingness to compromise. After all, it is Russia's willingness to follow up at all on what they themselves have signed up to, for example. The Minsk agreement, which they don't even bother. They don't even want to talk about it. That is not a willingness to compromise. It is simply that you throw all the law and order out the window and hope that no one else cares that you have thrown it out the window. The problem is that it also succeeds. We are now for so many years in a situation where Ukraine is a buck and a little brother, and now we are already beginning to talk about what we can do to continue to normalise relations with Russia. Then they've won. Then they won first! That is why the question on my part is: what will the government do to ensure that Russia abides by the Minsk agreement and comes to the table and acts as a Member State of the OSCE? And what will the consequence be if they do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112117	Thank you. If there's anything this government cares about, and I also know there's broad support for in Parliament, it's sticking to the whole agenda around Ukraine and the commitments Russia has. It's clear. I also said this in my previous speech and also to the rapporteur. Russia must implement the Minsk Agreement. Russia is responsible for what has happened in Ukraine. Ukraine is not responsible for this. It is clear, and that is why it is something that we attach great importance to the agenda. On the Danish side, we have a huge commitment with Ukraine precisely to ensure support for Ukraine, among others. also in relation to the reforms that are also necessary in Ukraine. The road to reform for Ukraine is also the best way to deal with Russia. We can see that Russia, which has the questioner completely right, is a difficult actor in the OSCE: destabilising behaviour in Ukraine, illegal annexation of Crimea, clear-cut violations of international law, on basic OSCE principles. The list of OSCE commitments that Russia does not comply with is long and in the area of arms control, which I mentioned at the end, Russia does not comply with the rules of the so-called Vienna document either. At the same time, they violate fundamental freedoms and democratic principles and put pressure on the OSCE's independent institutions set up in the world to protect them. So I think it is important that Denmark is at the forefront, and that is what this government is fighting for. We think this is unacceptable. That is why we are helping to maintain pressure on Russia until they comply with their OSCE commitments. And the EU's sanctions are in place, and this is where there is a good and concrete tool against Russia until the Minsk Agreement is fully implemented. It is important that we keep the dialogue going, and it is also important that we have the transatlantic joint dialogue on how to deal with Russia, among other things. with a sanctioning regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112304	Thank you. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112308	I am glad, then, that the government chose to continue the support programme for Ukraine launched by the previous government, because I was very much in favour of doing so, and it is a good thing that the government continues to do so. Now I was talking about what is going to be done about new things, and there is the fact that I think I am lacking in action, because the problem is that we cannot just continue to say that we are now continuing with the current sanctions. Because it has no effect. That is why my specific question was: what will the government do to ensure that this frozen conflict does not remain frozen and that we direct responsibility to where the responsibility lies, namely Russia? So what new steps will be taken to ensure that next year we cannot talk about a frozen conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112346	This government has clearly expressed itself on Russia's illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula with a great and, of course, unequivocal support for its consequences and for the sanctions that we are working to maintain and renew until Russia meets its obligations under the Minsk Agreement. The sanctions regime is the most important regime. We have also spoken out warmly for it will be a broader debate, a strong EU management of this and a common line, because that is what can help put pressure on, and that is also where we have financial muscles through sanctions. We have strongly advocated a transatlantic line in which the United States and Europe are united in terms of sanctions against Russia. This is one of the areas where we have been united for many years, and that is what is important in maintaining pressure on Russia. But Russia is not an easy player, and I agree that it is unacceptable behaviour that we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112435	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112441	I believe that my colleague, the rapporteur, has read this report in quite a different way than I have read it. It may happen, it is he who is right, I do not know; it is certainly enough. But I see this report as an expression of the desire for normalisation with Russia. It shines through the whole report, and we appreciate it in the Danish People's Party. We therefore believe that pragmatism in this matter is very, very important. We have now had these sanctions in, I do not know whether it is 8-10 years by now. And if you look forward to a situation... let's just be realistic... where nothing's going to happen until Crimea is returned to Ukraine... then I think we're going to wait 100 years, no matter who's in power in Russia. And we could then decide that, that is, that they have won, if it is, they say yes to it, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen says. But we also lose a lot by not having a sensible and proper relationship with Russia and not being able to cooperate with them in a perfectly normal way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112539	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. I think I will reply very briefly and say that, in this particular case, I agree with Mr McMahon. Michael Aastrup Jensen's reading of what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112547	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112551	Then I would like to ask whether the Foreign Minister could imagine a situation in which the Russian Parliament, no matter who is in charge of it, might dictate that the Crimea comes back to Ukraine. I'd like to hear that. Furthermore, there is another small detail in relation to this: two of my colleagues who have been election observers say that six months before you become an election observer, you have to sign a declaration that you have not criticised the country to which you are going. Otherwise, you will not be allowed to be an election observer. Is there anything about it, and is it something that Denmark could possibly imagine changing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112630	I do not know anything about the latter, but I would like to look into it and return to the questioner. I myself, when I was a member of the Folketing, have been an election observer several times without having to sign any documents. It is important that it is independent electoral observers who, of course, play an important role in ensuring that it is a free and open democratic election and, moreover, report afterwards. I think it is an important tool that we have. Then I would just like to say quite basically that I am of the fundamental conviction that every European country, a democratic country, a free country, must choose its own destiny. It is not the case that one can say that another country can have the right to annex parts of one's territory without consent. It is not acceptable; it is not the Europe we are fighting for. We are fighting for a Europe that respects the nation states.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112712	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112719	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. I would like to comment on some of the points I raised about the priorities of the Danish side. I would really like to hear a little more response from the Foreign Minister about this: when we see natural resources under pressure, when we see the climate under pressure, it is also a security risk. And that is one of the things we discussed in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly last year in Luxembourg, where I specifically followed that lead: how do we also work with the green agenda as a security agenda? And if it couldn't be something you should start giving more priority to the Danish side in this important cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112752	I fully agree that the green agenda and the climate agenda, in particular, are limited resources; water resources and other things are so much a source of conflict and an important part of a security policy agenda, including in the OSCE, and there is also parliamentary cooperation, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist refers to, yes, these questions on the agenda. I think it is very important to have that agenda. I just think that when we look at where there is a real need for the OSCE to play a clear role in relation to the way you are created, it is on the priorities that the government has. This does not mean that there are no other priorities. I just think it is important that we specifically uphold human rights and that, when we see the boycott of the rule of law and democracy being trampled underfoot, it is really important that we use the OSCE as a forum to deal with it. So I do not disagree with the questioner. This is something I would like to take, but I also think there are some other important priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112847	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112901	Thank you for your answer, and I am basically in agreement. But I just think it's important to have this more holistic approach to it, too, and to understand that human rights are, in fact, also climate issues and vice versa. And that it is when it comes to safety. So I just think it's important that, in our international cooperation across the organisations where we are active, we also remember that approach and don't think too much in silos that we have the climate and natural resources over to the side while talking about something else, but remembering it as an integral part of our international work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112925	I fully agree with the rapporteur, so I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112928	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the next part of paragraph 14, which is the statement No. R 9 and this is the debate on the Council of Europe. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, the Social Democratic Party, and there are 5 minutes for each rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611112956	At the beginning of 2020, the Council of Europe is thanks to the efforts of among others. the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers in 2017-2018 in better form than long. In June 2019, after 5 years of absence, Russia returned to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, although the lashings and contradictions following the crisis with Russia have not yet fully settled. Among other things: Ukraine, Georgia and the three Baltic States have been dissatisfied with the solution that paved the way for Russian return to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. It is important that we strengthen the positive developments in the Council of Europe so that it can focus on democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the 47 Member States that are. It must be strengthened through reform of the organisation. The reforms, which Denmark has helped to initiate, must help modernise and secure the organisation for the future, among other things by looking at where real added value is created in comparison with other international organisations such as the United States and Japan. The EU and the OSCE. Among other things, it can be done. This means that there are tasks that need to be cut away because they are better carried out in another organisation. At the same time, this may mean that the Council of Europe must undertake new tasks. An example of this is the regulation of artificial intelligence, where the Council of Europe can be ideally placed to develop new standards. By 2020, there will also be a focus on the work of other important organisations such as the European Court of Human Rights and the Venice Commission. Work on continuing reform of the European human rights system has been started, among other things. During the Danish Presidency with the Copenhagen Declaration of April 2018, it will be closely followed. We support the work of the Venice Commission on the rule of law in the Member States, which is expected to be equally important in the coming years. Furthermore, in line with the government's foreign policy priorities, Denmark will be active when it comes to the human rights situation in countries such as Russia and Turkey, as well as providing financial support for the Council of Europe's work in Ukraine concerning, among other things, Ukraine. the fight against corruption. In addition, the Danish side in the Council of Europe will follow closely the work on equality, child, disability, youth and torture in the follow-up to, among other things. the work under the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611113157	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611113205	Yes, there is a little confusion today because, in our wisdom, we who claim that we remember that last year we did a premiere in which we held a united debate on all the organisations, thought that we continued to do so, but obviously we do not. These are new times in every way. Now we take each organisation separately, and that is only fine and we will certainly have plenty of time for it, and that is also appropriate. I've said a lot of things in my first speech about the Council of Europe... I'll save you all the time to repeat that. I assume that the Minister has also heard my incredibly good questions to the government, and I expect answers to them for the first time. But let me just elaborate on a few things. I have mentioned Russia a great deal, and I think there is reason for this too. Because if you look at the whole history of how and how Russia has ignored the rules of the Council of Europe and the whole foundation of the Council of Europe, then I also think that there is reason for us simply to have a very, very critical eye on the Russians. That is, of course, because, for years, sanctions had actually been imposed against the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly. We did not dare to do so in the Committee of Ministers, but fortunately we did so in the Parliamentary Assembly. For years there was a job in which we actually tried to negotiate directly with the Russian Duma about what we can do to normalize the relationship, as Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned earlier. So there it is that we were told a lot of things. There we were promised a lot of things; promise that you would observe all the rules, you would make sure to pay back everything you owed and so on. etc. And what are the facts now? Well, I can actually answer that a little, because the parliamentary assembly of this very secret organisation actually has a committee called the Monitoring Committee, which is actually responsible for monitoring the countries under surveillance, including Russia. In their wisdom or lack of the same, they have actually elected me president for a two-year period. That's why I can tell you that things are going really, really bad. In fact, things are going so badly that even the Russian Government has not allowed monitoring by the Council of Europe to be opened up. It's been over six months since you brought all the toast speeches and everything else, but you still haven't been allowed away with all kinds of bad excuses. Apologies over and over again. We have not even paid back interest costs on what was owed to the Council of Europe. This is also the way to stand up in a stretched arm and say: Oh, yes, let us negotiate now. No! There is nothing to negotiate about either you comply with the rules or you don't. What, then, is the answer of the Committee of Ministers, including the Danish Government? Oh, but why don't we talk about it? We've done nothing but talk about it for the last 8-9 years. And what on earth has happened to Russia? Yeah, a lot has actually happened. The problem is simply that it is in a very negative direction because it has presented constitutional changes such as those made by the Russian Government and even adopted them by an overwhelming majority. I would stress that it was by an overwhelming majority, and I am in fact in doubt whether there really was complete unanimity in the Duma for these constitutional changes, where you just have to have read some kind of law for about a day and a half to see that they would be in direct conflict with a large number of the different rules and laws of the Council of Europe. What is the answer still away from the Committee of Ministers? Oh, we'll talk about it. I have to admit that I'm usually a person with a little temper... I admit it... but I've probably also had a need to look for some kind of boxing ball when I kept getting that message that they were talking about it. Because right here and now I just have to say that as long as we do, it results in someone winning, and it is Putin who is currently dying of laughing at how the world community doesn't care how and how he is currently completely winding us around his little finger. I must admit that I am embarrassed on behalf of the world community, which is why I expect the Danish Government too to shoulder its responsibilities and to start pushing the Committee of Ministers in a rather action-oriented direction rather than what we have seen over the past many years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611113651	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I understand it, sir, it is now. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611113704	In the Radical Left, we see the Council of Europe as one of the crucial and most important institutions established after the Second World War, and I very much agree with the Foreign Minister that there are many of the institutions we can thank for the world order and the development of human rights, democracy and welfare, which, for the first time in world history, have marked developments on the European continent, and that is why we are very concerned that the Council of Europe is developing positively and in line with time. Having said that, the Council of Europe is also an institution of dilemmas, and two of the major dilemmas which have dealt with changing governments in recent years are one of the things that has already been mentioned from the platform. One is how to ensure that an institution created so many years ago is up to date in the assessment of human rights. We have to give the Court of Human Rights some form of opportunity to develop definitions and legislation, but at the same time we have to recognise that it cannot be completely out of step with what is going on in the laws of the national states. This has given rise to some discussions along the way, and it is also a difficult dilemma, because the strength of the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights is precisely that they are independent and supranational and can therefore also keep the states that openly violate human rights, for example. Russia, which has been mentioned several times. Conversely, there is no point in developing a practice that is completely out of line with the legislation in the individual countries. It is our belief that this balance is present today in the Council of Europe, that we are actually doing a great deal to be in dialogue with the various countries, to adapt our assessments and practices to the individual countries, and that we have therefore found a good and strong balance on this point. The second, which is at least as difficult, is what you do with those Member States which do not follow the rules and which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned many, but obviously the elephant in space is currently Russia. Perhaps I do not think the matter is quite as simple as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen will make it, because a regime like Putins has in itself, if we look very closely at it, no special pleasure from being a member of the Council of Europe, because what that means is that Russian citizens have an opportunity to complain about Putin and the government to the Court of Human Rights. That is why all of us are faced with a difficult dilemma here, because on the one hand, of course, the rules must be complied with. I am obviously in agreement with the rapporteur of the Left and, of course, all the pressure that can be put on Russia must be applied, but on the other hand, we have no great interest in throwing them out, because those we are really punishing are Russian citizens, many of whom are, of course, oppressed. Conversely, it is not possible in the long run to live with non-compliance, and it is therefore also necessary that there is some consistency and practice. It's hard. As I interpret the reality today, it is left largely to the parliamentary assembly to be those who swing the whip and say that rules must be followed, and then it is the governments in the Council of Ministers who are then trying to find a way to interpret it. It doesn't always look as pretty as I'm supposed to be the first to admit it, but it may not be a completely crazy division of labour. And I am not saying that at all, because I think that one should be softer with Russia. The point is almost the opposite. We need to find a way of putting maximum pressure on the Moscow Government, while at the same time allowing Russian citizens to pursue their rights and ultimately taking it to the Court of Human Rights remains intact. It's insanely difficult. I would not rule out the Danish Government being able to do more than it is doing today. Governments can usually do that, but I think we should recognise the schism that lies in this. And I would also like to say that, where I believe the government could do even more, perhaps not so much is in the Committee of Ministers, but by strengthening efforts to support democratic forces in Russia, Ukraine and all the countries around it, supporting citizens' movements and supporting student movements in order to promote democracy from below. Part of it was done in my time as Foreign Minister, which was done a little more under the previous government, and perhaps even more could be done, I think there will be a broad majority for it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114216	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114224	What led me to speak was Mr. Martin Lidegaard's remarks that the balance in relation to what the Court of Human Rights is interfering with should be good now. That's where I'd just like to remind you, sir. Martin Lidegaard said that there were others. in the case of Savran, which is that it should be torture to expel a murderer to Turkey because he cannot receive the same medical treatment in Turkey that he can receive in Denmark. I think it is a happy madness to claim that Denmark is violating a Turk's human rights, a murderer, because, because of his actions, he is deported to a country where he cannot receive the same medical treatment that he can receive in Denmark. Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that this reflects the fact that the court has struck the right balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114311	In any case, I believe that it is very difficult to take out individual specific cases and make it an argument that there is no balance. What I was talking about was the balance between, on the one hand, having some sort of supranational court, so that it is possible for citizens of individual countries who feel oppressed to take their case elsewhere, while at the same time having some kind of sensitivity to national laws and rules that are, if I may say, updating their practice. And overall, I think it is sensible and in place. I have no further knowledge of the case in question. But that will often be the case, I would say, whether we are talking about the International Court of Human Rights or national courts, that you can find legislation and rules where you can pull something out in individual cases and say that it looks strange, but in the other 99 cases you would say that the same rule makes real sense. So the thing about taking out a single case and then saying that here is an example that there is no balance, I do not think that holds up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114414	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114418	I'd just like to have that Mr. Simpson... Martin Lidegaard mentions a few of the judgments about Denmark which he believes make sense. So, I believe that Denmark is one of the most important, most transparent and non-corrupted democracies in the world, and that it is therefore totally unnecessary to have such an overcourt sitting and ruling on behalf of the Folketing. But if Mr. Martin Lidegaard believes that it is good for democracy, could he not mention, should we say a two or three judgments of the Court of Human Rights, which has made it better to be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114442	As I said, I do not think that specific cases can be taken out and then turned them into such exemplary for a general trend. I agree that Denmark has a fantastic legal system and a fantastic democratic tradition. But we have joined the Council of Europe because we want all other countries to go the same way. And then, of course, we must subject ourselves to the same rules that apply to all the other countries. Neither Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or I can know what is happening in Denmark for the next 5, 10 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114511	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114515	We're talking about Crimea now also in this, and that's what Mr. Lidegaard, that now is the time to support the democratic forces in Russia. I fully agree with that. Let us now play that Russia became a completely democratic state and that Putin was no longer there and that his government was no longer there, but it was all a good and healthy democracy. Would the new democracy then return Crimea to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114543	Well, it's a funny future game we're in. No, I don't think that's gonna happen. Søren Espersen indirectly points out, and I fully agree with that, that having what we understand by a full democracy in Russia unfortunately has a long way to go. That is why there is a real dilemma which is incredibly difficult to deal with: what do you do with a Russia, which is our neighbour and remains our neighbour, and which we have an interest in having as much as possible in common with the European Union, let us just put it that way, including in the multipolar world order that we look into, where, after all, they should lean relatively more towards Europe than against many other states, when, at the same time, you also have a Russia that is governed by what I would call a mafia boss today? What do you do with it? In this respect, I believe that there is a need to have a fair firm hand with the regime, but as open a hand as possible to the people and the country. I think that's for the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114642	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114648	I think, sir. Lidegaard agrees with me that this is probably an unthinkable thing, because it is for the Russians the same thing Gibraltar is for the British. It's somewhere similar. It is something that is not given; it is something that lies in the blood. We can therefore look forward to, if we stick to the fact that only after the return of Crimea can we lift the sanctions against Russia, then cooperation begins, that it will be a hundred years' walk, and that is what I think is so tragic. I think it is tragic that you cannot just recognise it and then move on and be pragmatic. What the Russians have done is wrong, it is contrary to international law, but it has done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114730	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114734	I do not think that is quite the way to argue, because then you have opened a barn gate for what you can afford to do and then after 5-10 years you will be condoned. But I will come, sir. Søren Espersen as far in the meeting as saying that you might have to look at how to deal with this, both the situation in eastern Ukraine today and the situation in Crimea. And there have been a number of proposals to promote whether or not we can make a process about the future of Crimea, which leans on international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114809	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611114825	Thank you, it can be said that, unfortunately, the Council of Europe is more needed now than ever. With the developments we are currently seeing in the Member States, then there is such a need for a strong voice in favour of human rights and democracy. Russia was discussed, and I also think Turkey is worth mentioning so much. For the way in which fundamental democratic principles are completely pressed, and also the way in which Turkey chooses to take a great look and does not want to recognise the judgment of the court and does not want to engage in dialogue around the Venice Commission and their criticisms, is actually quite telling, I think, because the discussion we have had in Denmark about the Council of Europe, in other words, that we can criticise the court for its actions. But I think it is important that we really take a lot of care. Because, in relation to the pressure we see from countries such as Russia, such as Turkey, especially in relation to the court, we should not stand suddenly so that they can sort out their own criticism by saying: 'Well, you are criticising even the judgments that come from the Court of Justice.' I think it is important to stand up for the institutions that we are part of and have helped to create. Fortunately, there is also a great deal of attention to the region of Glbti in the Council of Europe. The Commissioner for Human Rights is very, very active in that place, and it is of course not only in a few countries, but in quite a number of Member States, that we are experiencing a huge amount of pressure on Glbti people and the activists, and it is important that we have an institution such as the Council of Europe that can stand up for it. So I think it is very important that at home we actually take the Council of Europe more seriously, also in relation to the criticism that is sometimes raised by Denmark than we have done for a long time. It is not the case that all criticism should be accepted, but actually take it seriously when it comes to criticism, whatever it is about our system of financial support for political parties, what comes from statements by the Court and so on. That we are actually taking this seriously, because the Council of Europe is needed now. This is needed in relation to the minority groups that are. This is needed in order for us to have lively and strong democracies. So I think it's gonna be the kick-in I got for this part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115053	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Flyvholm, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115107	Unfortunately, I think there are many people who do not really know the Council of Europe very well, but I think it is some insanely important work that is being done in the Council of Europe, something very, very important work that is basically about safeguarding human rights. This is something that is very important in all our countries, and I think we should support the Council of Europe to such an extent, and we would also ask that we do so even more. The view of the Enhedslisten is that, frankly, we could add some more money to the work of the Council of Europe precisely because it is so important. After all, one of the countries that is very much on the radar now is Turkey, as I mentioned before, where a great many, both politicians and journalists and others, are in prison. It is quite extreme, so many political prisoners there are now in Turkey. That is one of the things the Council of Europe is following closely. Then it is also Poland, it is Russia, it is Azerbaijan, there are indeed many examples of the Council of Europe following where there are violations of human rights and where there are worrying developments. So it's very, very important. But at the same time it can be said that the Council of Europe is in a strange situation. I talked to Søren Søndergaard about this, and we talked about the fact that it is such a Bermuda triangle of oppression, one might call what is made up of Russia, Azerbaijan and Turkey. And these are some of the countries with which there are really major problems, but at the same time some of them pay the most for the work of the Council of Europe. And that's what I think we can all say ourselves... that no, there's no free lunch. As one says in English: There is no such thing as a free lunch. And it is true in this case that if some of the countries with which there are most problems are also those that pay the most for the work of the Council of Europe, then it is clear that there may be a concern that there is not the same perseverance in terms of following up and getting something done about the situation in those countries. And that is precisely why we in the Enhedslisten say: Well we must also have that discussion here in Denmark, if we cannot contribute anything more to the Council of Europe, and if not there are other countries, more democratically minded countries, that can put some more economic and political forces in the Council of Europe. In any case, I think this is very important if positive developments are to be ensured in the future. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very good that in this review there is also an example of how a problem with Turkey, for example. Nor do the judgments that are then handed down before the European Court of Human Rights follow that they are subsequently not observed and implemented. I think it is very important that it is noticed here. It is also a little up to us, I think, to re-establish the discussion about Denmark having actually had a rather embarrassing role under the previous government, which was about quite much undermining or restricting the authority and competence of the European Court of Human Rights. That's something you went out and said straight away. There have also been examples of judgments that were not complied with in Denmark. Unfortunately, this was also an approach supported by the Social Democratic Party at the time, and I very much hope that we will be able to have a fight with the future. Because I think it must be the case that we support compliance with the judgments that are handed down and ensure respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115457	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115502	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Flyvholm for a tour de force around Eastern Europe and for the challenges of violations of fundamental rights. I think we're all concerned about that, and that's why I would just like to ask a little bit about the way Enhedslisten himself is doing himself internationally. For the Enhedslisten sits in the European Parliament in a group with a convicted terrorist, that is, who has a murder of conscience, and I just wonder if it is not, when you are so concerned about fundamental rights, a bit ambivalent or paradoxical that you can sit in a group with someone like Mrs Martina Anderson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115548	So, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we stand absolutely vigilant on human rights. And it is Sinn Féin, the Irish party to which the rapporteur refers. We are in a group with them in the European Parliament; that is absolutely correct. Whoever they are sitting as politicians we are not master of, and I am not really aware of the exact circumstances surrounding this sentence, I am sorry. However, I would assume that the punishment at issue here has been served and completed and that she has been judged by her country to be a worthy representative to sit there. I believe that different party representatives can be found in all groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115634	Sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115638	Well, I think Martina Anderson was in prison for his murders, his terrorist murders, until what is called "with the permission of the President" "Good Friday Agreement," and has thus taken his sentence. But what can just seem a little paradoxical is when the Enhedslisten speaks so warmly about fundamental rights around all sorts of countries that one then apparently has no such conscientious objection by sitting in a group in the European Parliament with someone who has a murder of conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115705	Well, well, we take in the Enhedslisten very strongly away from terror. That is also what we are working for. Exactly who sits in the various groups in the European Parliament, I think, is a rather more complex issue. I am quite sure that the rapporteur himself has also been in a group of people who, frankly, are not very much in defence of human rights, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115732	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115738	Now it is the Council of Europe that we have a debate on, and not the European Parliament, so I would actually like to ask a few questions about what the Enhedslisten is doing in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 'Cause it's interesting there, too. And there you can see that the group of which the Enhedslisten is a member is in fact the only group of all the political groups to argue most in favour of normalising relations with Russia and which argued most against the consequences of disregarding all the rules in relation to sanctions and the like. Only one group of all the political groups fought against it. And that was the group that Enhedslisten is a member of. The only group in which there are some Russian Duma members is the group in which Enhedslisten sits. So I just have to admit that it has consequences. I myself am Vice-President of the Liberal Group and I know how and how we decide carefully whether we want people in or whether people should not be allowed. We often say no to some because we think they disregard the various rights we have in the Council of Europe. So what is being said here today should not also be reflected in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115842	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115846	Now, first of all, I must express my reservations that there may be some shortcomings in my reply, since I am not in the Council of Europe for the Enhedslisten. And I would just like to come back with a more comprehensive answer once I have consulted our Member. However, as I say here, our starting point is that, of course, it is also important to put pressure on Russia to comply with those rules. I also think that, and I actually hope that, I hear a statement from the rapporteur that we must also get other countries on the ground and strengthen the work of the Council of Europe in this way. However, I could imagine that there is also something about how to get the longest in the negotiations with Russia. It may have been a balance, but I simply do not know the specific problem there. I am sorry to have to give such a flawed answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115937	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611115940	And full respect for it when you're not sitting there, but it just gives food for thought to someone like me, I have to admit. Because I usually have a positive view that the Enhedslisten is fighting for human rights and democracy, etc. And I see how and how the group that you are sitting in down in the Council of Europe does the opposite, sometimes in the eyes of the goose, does not care. As long as you just keep the store running, you can afford to do whatever you want; that is my interpretation, but it is not entirely wrong. That is why my message is then, and there is no need to comment, that the Enhedslisten should perhaps reconsider whether you are sitting in the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120016	I promise that I would like to bring it up, including with our representatives. However, I would like to say that sometimes there may also be different approaches to this, both of course in relation to what can be achieved in a group ■ that is well known to the rapporteur himself but also in relation to the other, i.e. this with what one's approach to the negotiations is. How much should you put hard on? And how much should you try to get things through in another way? But I must say that we fully share the concern for respect for human rights in Russia too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120045	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that is why we now move on to Mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120052	Fundamental freedoms are under pressure globally, including in the circle of countries of the Council of Europe. Some countries are moving away from our common fundamental values of freedom. And in this situation, it is important that we have an organisation such as the Council of Europe: it is an important voice in terms of democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. It is in the Council of Europe that we, for example, are. speaks of the persecution of homosexuals in Russia. This is also where we need to maintain pressure on Russia in relation to other human rights issues, the persecution of journalists and organizationalists. It is also in the Council of Europe that we must criticise Turkey for their violations of fundamental freedoms. Among the 47 members of the Council of Europe, Turkey has a record of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. As I said, we must support organisations and international communities which underpin cooperation and dialogue between countries. But we also have to be critical at times. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, we in Denmark have shown how much difference Denmark can make on the international stage if the will is there, because then something happens. With the Copenhagen Declaration last year under the previous government, we made the European human rights system a little more up-to-date and effective, and I think that is very good. This is something that we must also be able to debate and dare to talk about, even critically, in other words that human rights are important. We need to be able to discuss everything. The agreement brings European human rights closer to the more than 800 million people associated with the system, and we can be proud of that in Denmark. This shows that we can influence things if the will is there, also internationally. So our message here to the government is that it is extremely important that the government follow the steps that have been taken very closely. Since I am going to another meeting, I cannot get up in the second round, but I just want to say a few words to the Baltic Council. Denmark has also played a role here, and this is about making the Baltic Council more up-to-date. We currently have the Presidency, so it is extremely important that the modernisation of the Council is high on the agenda until the end of the Presidency in July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now, as I see it, Mr President. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120348	Thank you for the floor and thank you for this part of the statement on the Council of Europe. I think I will spend my speaking time on some of that which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also raised the issue of the European Court of Human Rights. In the past, it was the position of the Danish Government that the activism of the European Court of Human Rights should be restricted. After all, we had the Presidency a few years ago and worked on it. These principles of Copenhagen, which we started out with, were somewhat watered down. However, although I do agree that it is very regrettable that there are a number of countries which are restricting human rights in these years, and this must be criticised, I also believe that the work against judicial activism is very important. I have also had the impression that, in the past, in other words during the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Party supported working against dramatic activism. The issue of activism has still not been resolved and the European Court of Human Rights is too active. This has some very concrete consequences in relation to the expulsion of convicted criminals, but it really has some consequences in relation to the support for human rights, because if these sentences become too active, then the acceptance by the people that we are part of this human rights system that we should be members of. So when the Minister takes the floor, I would like to hear a little more about what the government is planning to do to keep the pot at a boil, so to speak, in the direction of combating excessive judicial activity by the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister. Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611120556	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking you for your contributions, which confirm the great interest in the Council of Europe. This is positive because it is a very important organisation that is more relevant and necessary than ever before. We must safeguard the Council of Europe at a time when multilateralism, international standards and rules are under increasing pressure. We have seen the relevance of the Council of Europe as recently as now during the covid-19 crisis. Here its rules and standards in the fields of democracy, human rights and the rule of law include: was instrumental in defining the framework and limits for action Member States have been able to take in dealing with the crisis. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Venice Commission and others have among other things: kept an eye on the unintended consequences of decommissioning, e.g. Increased violence against women and children, interference with freedom of the press. I myself have also been at the forefront of the Council of Europe. In May, I sent a joint letter with my Nordic colleagues to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe expressing our concern at the emergency measures in Hungary. It is important, I think, to defend the common principles and values. I believe that the pressure that many actors, including the Council of Europe, the Nordic ministers and the European Union, have put on the Hungarian Government helped to make them state clearly that they will end the emergency situation this month. Just over a year ago, when this debate lasted, the Council of Europe was moving out of one of the biggest crises in its 70-year history. 2019 ended up being a good year for the organisation on long stretches. Economic collapse and division were avoided. Cooperation between the Committee of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly was strengthened. The organisation was given new funds, a long-term reform agenda was adopted, and the new Secretary-General got off to a good start. It gives a good basis to continue working on when the work gets back into gear right here after the covid-19. It is a difficult but necessary solution that was found to the crisis in relation to Russia, which several people have touched upon. We know that, unfortunately, it has cost Ukraine and the Baltic countries. I am pleased that, despite threats of default, the Ukrainian parliamentarians chose to join the Parliamentary Assembly in January and to contribute constructively to the work of the Assembly. I also share the description of the dilemmas that Mr. Martin Lidegaard spoke about the whole question. Russia has paid all its budget contributions; it still has to pay a higher interest rate, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen also mentioned. That is absolutely correct. This is not acceptable, and we in Denmark will continually put pressure on Russia to make them pay. The adoption of the common procedure for infringement of the Statute ensures a common basis between the Parliamentary Party and the Committee of Ministers for sanctions in the organisation. Hopefully it should not be used very often, but it can be used if necessary. In my view, the constructive and close cooperation between the parliamentarians and the Committee of Ministers was crucial in bringing the crisis to an end with Russia and bringing the Council of Europe forward, and I think it is a good thing for the cooperation and work of the coming year. I shall do my best to ensure that the work continues and is further strengthened. This also applies to my own cooperation with Parliament's delegation to the Council of Europe. For the government, it is important that the reform process in the Council of Europe, which Denmark helped to start up during our Presidency, should be followed up here in 2020 and in the future. The organisation must be modernised and assured of the future so that it can deliver even better results in its core areas. This is particularly true of human rights. The Council of Europe must be better equipped to tackle the challenges and tasks of the future. It is important that it remains a powerful and effective organisation for the benefit of more than 830 million citizens in Europe who benefit from the protection of the Council of Europe. We will follow the reform work closely. In this respect, I am pleased to announce that in May, former Ambassador Niels Pultz was elected to the Budget Committee of the Council of Europe, which will be an important focus of reform work. This allows us to secure Danish fingerprints. In 2020, we will also focus on the follow-up to the reform of the European human rights system in recent years, as well as on developments in the area of human rights in countries such as Russia and Turkey. Finally, I would also like to highlight the enormously important work that the Venice Commission, which celebrates its 30th birthday this year, is doing in following and assessing the residual state situation in the Member States. We will follow this work closely in 2020. This is crucial in ensuring that all EU Member States comply with the rule of law and continue to do so. So I would like to thank you for a good debate, I think, and I will look forward to going back to the questions. Perhaps I would like to say something at the end, when I have a little extra time, in relation to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen with regard to Russia and the discussion there is, that is to say, about the dilemma that I actually agree with Mr Aastrup Jensen. Martin Lidegaard you are there. I also think it is very important that we know how to play a role, both in the constructive cooperation between the parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers, but also in the way we do it here, so that we effectively promote the values on which the Council of Europe is based. It was a difficult solution. Difficult because Russia's lack of payments to the budget was clearly contrary to the rules of the Council of Europe and because acceptance of the solution had costs for our Ukrainian and Baltic friends, which we must not forget. And it was necessary because no solution would have been worse. After all, the organization would have been further divided. Russia might have resigned, and other countries might have followed, or at least thrown out. It would of course have hit the organization very hard economically, and finally a Russian exit would have hit the ordinary Russian who, like Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned that he would no longer be protected by others. European Convention on Human Rights. That is why there are these dilemmas. Overall, if we are to look at it, the solution that has been found is a sensible solution, but the work on dealing with Russia is far from over. Of course, this is going to follow us for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121222	There is a brief comment. First, it's from sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121226	Thank you. I understand that the Foreign Minister believes that 2019 was a good year for the Council of Europe. Now I have participated in all the joint meetings that have taken place between the Parliamentary Assembly and the Committee of Ministers, and to start calling it a positive and good dialogue and good cooperation is so thick that I am just beginning to call Putin a democrat. Well, it's as far away from reality as it can possibly be. On the contrary, it has been clear that the Committee of Ministers has been able to upset the Parliamentary Assembly by saying that we must now make Russia so good that they do not get rid of their budget from the Council of Europe budget. That's what it's all been about. It's been about money. And there's just what I'm saying is that it's really sad. That is why the questions I put to the Foreign Minister were very clear: what is the government going to do to ensure that Russia just approximately complies with some of the things they have promised? You can, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121330	First of all, of course, I hope that Russia chooses to pay what they owe, otherwise we will have to consider what needs to be done, and we will do so in the Committee of Ministers. So it is not the case that we have abandoned the struggle, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Denmark will continue to put pressure on Russia on the Committee of Ministers to pay. The Secretary-General is active in the matter, and this is something that Denmark warmly supports. I also believe that this is where the obvious political dilemmas that exist are coming in. In other words, we would rather have the opportunity to confront some of the major challenges facing Russia in the context of the Council of Europe, or we would risk it, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard also referred to the fact that Russia is going out completely? This is a dilemma, and I think the right answer to that is that we have now created some opportunities to still be able to deal with Russia in the Council of Europe. We have the opportunity to highlight what we stand for, and I think we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121436	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121438	But there is no one in this Chamber talking about throwing Russia out of the Council of Europe. I am talking about sanctions, just as the European Union has done. And there is, of course, the fact that you have a clear framework for what you can do in relation to making sanctions. But the Committee of Ministers, with the agreement of the Danish Government, has said that no, we should not do that in relation to Russia. And my question was: what is it that Russia has done? can one mention just one thing in relation to what they have promised the Council of Europe? I can give you the answer because I don't think we'll get it. The answer is zero; zero of what they have promised. Isn't it time to start saying that all right, the dialogue you're so happy about, doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121514	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121515	What's sure of that if you follow Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen's way is that Russia is on its way out of the Council of Europe. I don't think any of us want that. Having said that, I fully agree with the content. I think that this is what normally characterises a good debate, namely that we are focusing on how we promote the fundamental values on which the Council of Europe stands, and I hope that this will be the case. Michael Aastrup Jensen and I agree are important. A solution has been found here. It is true that Russia does not live up to some of the things that Russia has to live up to. We will continue to press for this. We will take it up in the Committee of Ministers if there are no solutions to it and we will take further steps. We have good cooperation and, I hope, also a parliamentary assembly on that agenda, because I hope that the Assembly of Parliament will also support us in keeping Russia up to the commitments we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121557	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121559	Thank you for your statement. I would just like to ask whether Denmark too, together with other more democratic countries, should not have to cut something more in the Council of Europe's coffers. Where does the Foreign Minister stand on that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121618	I would like to take that question with me and come back to it. I think that the most important focus right now is, for example. to get Russia to pay the interest that has not yet been paid and to ensure that the organisation comes back again. I believe that Mrs Eva Flyvholm and I fully agree on the importance of the work of the Council of Europe, especially at a time when international standards and rules are under pressure, including among the more than 800 million people covered by the Council of Europe. It is very important that we make this organisation work as best we can and also ensure that the principles on which we are based are applied in practice by Members. So I would like to look at it and return to Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121658	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121659	I would like to thank the Minister for taking a look at this at least. I think it is important that we continue this discussion, because even if Russia starts to pay, it does not solve the problem of some of the biggest contributors being Turkey and Russia; that some of them, in fact, are major problems, some of them are also putting a great deal of money into it. It is clear that it may upset the balance. That is why I also think that Denmark and other countries should be more involved, so that we are sure that we can have a proper and neutral way of working in the future. So thank you for the commitment to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121731	Thank you. We will continue to work on the good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121735	Thank you, Minister. Then we will continue with the negotiations on the Baltic Sea Council. It's first, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121752	In 1992 Denmark and Germany were joint promoters of the establishment of the Baltic Sea Council as a regional cooperation forum. In addition to Denmark and Germany, the Member States include the other Nordic countries, the Baltic States, Poland and Russia. In addition, the EU participates in the meetings. The main objective is to link the Baltic Sea region together in an ever closer cooperation between all the Baltic States. The Presidency of the organisation rotates annually between the Member States, and on 1 July 2019 Denmark took over the Presidency after Latvia. The Danish Presidency will run until 1 July 2020. The government's main priority is to follow up the reforms aimed at making the organisation more flexible and efficient and ensuring better synergies with other cooperation forums. It is a priority for the government to create real equal and regional political dialogue as well as cohesion within the Baltic Sea Council. Denmark had therefore planned to hold a meeting of Foreign Ministers in 2020 at Bornholm, which has then been moved to be online, in order to discuss issues of common interest to the countries of the region. We are part of the work of expert groups on trafficking in human beings, vulnerable children and young people, sustainable development in the region, based on the UN's global goals, and this also applies to the sustainable maritime economy. In addition, we are part of the civil protection network, which focuses on cooperation with civil society and on emergency challenges and adjustments in the light of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121916	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611121931	Thank you. I can tell you I don't have much to say. Now we have been around a lot of things and it is really important that we have cooperation on the Baltic Sea. Not least in relation to the whole question of the environment and to security policy, it is very good. If you read the report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is clear that Corona has, of course, had a negative effect on how the meetings could or could not be done. All in all, however, we in the Left are very interested in the fact that we are still holding on to this Baltic cooperation. I am, of course, in favour of dialogue with Russia, even though I am shot in the opposite direction. In fact, I am very much in favour of a dialogue with Russia. I also think that sometimes dialogue should be replaced by action, and perhaps that is where some of us disagree. But everything that is about dialogue, I think is really good, so more of it as far as we can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122037	Nor do I have much to add to what has already been said about the Baltic Sea Council. However, I would just like to mention one thing that I would like to see filled more. That is what I said last year and last year and so on, and that is cooperation in the field of energy. The government has actually played out with a new energy island at Bornholm, a case one could imagine was close to the Foreign Minister for many of each other's independent reasons. I just think that's a perfectly obvious case to pull out. It is quite obvious that some countries in the Baltic Sea Council will be less interested in this, but Poland is obviously interested, and several of the Baltic countries are obviously interested, and it has a huge geopolitical perspective if you can literally pull out threads to all these countries, both for the energy supply and the independence of it, but also for Denmark's green transition. So I would just recommend the Secretary of State to make it a personal matter. It will also look good in the next election campaign and it will have a huge impact on both the geopolitics of the Baltic region and the green transition in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122147	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122152	Thank you. Now we're taking this debate bit by bit, and it's clear that our speech is getting shorter and shorter, but it doesn't mean that this doesn't actually mean that international cooperation is super important and that we have a lot of forums to unfold in where it's important that we keep thinking all the way around and find out how we can play into the different places. Indeed, there has also been quite good cooperation within the Baltic Council, especially on human trafficking, which is important to highlight as something that is good. But there is something that I really would like to see taken up more. This year should actually have been the great year of biodiversity with the great COP in China this autumn. Because of corona etc. Unfortunately, this is an agenda that has been pushed aside a little, but that is something we must not forget. Biodiversity is really, really bad. It does so all over the world, and so does it in the Baltic Sea region. Much work is being done on sustainability in general within the Baltic Sea Council, but specifically the biodiversity crisis that we are facing and the question of how we can ensure a strengthening of biodiversity throughout the Baltic Sea region, I think is one of the things that should be focused on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122306	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122314	With regard to the Baltic Council, I would really like to start by congratulating you. I think it is wonderful that we can read here that the government would actually like to give priority to the Baltic Council and that it would also like to place more emphasis on how to use the Baltic Council, namely to promote dialogue throughout the region and also to involve Russia in that dialogue. I think that is very sensible, and we also know from the past that it has been a very useful forum to have some of those discussions in. So I think it is really nice to see that it also comes in writing and that it is a priority in the future. I think that is wise and good. One of the areas with which the Baltic Sea Council is also working very much is precisely this human trafficking or trafficking, and this is a problem that we have seen getting bigger and bigger for a long time or at least be a very big and serious problem. So this is also just an opportunity to say that cooperation in the Baltic Sea Council is very crucial, because it includes many of the countries with which cooperation is relevant. But perhaps it is also an appeal for us to continue to maintain the question of whether we are actually spending enough resources on this on the Danish side. With our own police, I still think we can say that there are too few resources set aside to actively combat trafficking in human beings, which has such major consequences for many people. So maybe it's just to get into this with the look that maybe we could do a little more ourselves here to contribute. But I think these are some good priorities, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122507	Thank you. The next rapporteur I see is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122524	Thank you for the floor. I shall be brief: when I prepared for today's debate, I read what I wrote last year and what it said last year. In 2019, a key word in connection with the Baltic Sea Council was re-enlightenment, i.e. that now the Baltic Sea Council had to be revived. After all, this is something that is only being done if death is near, and now the Baltic Council still exists, and that is quite positive. For one of the things I also said in my speech last year was that there is a resuscitation of approx. Thirteen percent chance the patient's gonna survive. So it is well done that one has stayed within this window on the 13 per cent, and it is under Danish leadership, so praise from here. For yes, as several people have said, it is very important that we have these international cooperation bodies, and that is why we cannot have them lying and dying. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611122632	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs. We must also bear in mind the history of the Baltic Sea Council, which I am sure is well known, in other words that it was Denmark and Germany that took the initiative in 1992, and I am also pleased that it is being stressed here that it is not the case that the Baltic Sea Council has been a dynamic forum that has worked beyond all expectations over the past many years. It has been important that we have strengthened this cooperation, which is why during the Danish Presidency it has also been important for Denmark to implement the reforms agreed by the Council last summer. The aim is to make the organisation more flexible and efficient and to make it better able to cooperate with the other actors present in the Baltic Sea region, and overall the reforms must make the Baltic Sea Council relevant again. The latest step in the implementation of these reforms was taken in May, when I hosted an online meeting with my colleagues from the other Member States, and I must not hide the fact that it would have been much more interesting to have the meeting at Bornholm with the countries with which I had an online meeting, including among others. the German and Russian Foreign Ministers, to name two in the circle. I think it could have given some momentum to the organization. But that's the way it is in covid-19 times. All the countries gave support to the reforms, and much praise to Denmark for having led the reforms over the last year. So, to use the concept of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, the revival succeeded, and there was praise for Denmark for the efforts that have been made. At the meeting, the new mandates for the Baltic Sea Council itself and the Council Secretariat were formally adopted, and that is what applies today. They provide a solid foundation for the organisation to now be used as a platform, and it is important for a political dialogue to ensure a better focus in cooperation with other actors in the region. In addition, we discussed issues of broader relevance, firstly, of course the covid-19 situation and the impact of regional cooperation. It was taken up, and it affects all of us. We discussed this and I would also like to highlight the importance of youth involvement in decision-making processes and institutions. If you look into the future, it is important to activate young people around the Baltic Sea. It is they who must shape the future, and it is important in terms of the things we talked about before values, democracy, participation, etc. We talked about the environment and climate issues, and that is also an answer to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who influences the Baltic Sea region, among others. on how we can get more energy from offshore winds in the area and how landflow can be beneficial to the climate and local environment and the shipping industry while at the same time helping to promote the Baltic Sea as a green tourist destination. And so it has a number of other good effects if you have collaborated on some of these things between the countries that do not share views in other areas. Finally, we also discussed cross-border and organised crime, and, Mrs Flyvholm, I fully agree that it is important to strengthen cooperation, and also with regard to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. So I am glad that it was noted that it is actually a challenge that we must bear in mind that people are exposed to these things and that it is not a new thing, but something that has been going on for many years. In a few weeks' time, Lithuania will take over the Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council, and we can look back on an eventful year and a successful Presidency, but an important task for Denmark in the Baltic Sea Council will continue to ensure that we reap the benefits of this reform process that we have set in motion, and we would like to focus on that in the coming years. Finally, to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is also one thing here, which I think is important and which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen highlights, and that is the dialogue. After all, it is important that we also have the courage to take the dialogue with those with whom we disagree, and we can also use a forum such as this and other forums, and it is important that we also make our views known to Russia. It is also important that we cooperate with those with whom we share geography, where it makes sense to defend Danish interests and values. So thank you to the rapporteurs and for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611123056	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Now we had to start the first reading of motion for a resolution B 176, but in order to deal with a motion for a resolution, it requires a minister and rapporteurs to be present. I know that the Minister is on the way, so I have chosen not to call the Chamber. I think we're just taking a deep breath, and then I think we'll see a minister coming running in a very short time. Then the Minister has also honoured us with his presence, and that is why we can proceed with the first reading of motion for a resolution. B 176.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611123305	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611123324	I am pleased that the motion for a resolution will again give us the opportunity to discuss this repatriation or repatriation scheme as it is called. I understand that there is a desire to amend the law after the media have covered this tragic matter, which is also the basis of the proposal and which is mentioned in the observations made in the proposal. It is clear that, as a minister, I cannot go into the very specific matter in detail, but on the basis of the information available on the matter, I must also say that, of course, it makes an enormous impression on all of us who have read it. It is absolutely terrible that in 2020 we are still hearing about cases where women have to fight for their freedom and, in extreme cases, even with their lives as an effort. As a society, we must help and support women in their fight for freedom. We must dare to reject negative social controls, and that is why the fight against negative social controls must also be strengthened. Here, as a first step in the fight against this social control, the government will ban religious marriages of minors and tighten up the penalties for maintaining some in forced marriages, and if you are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty, because you have retained another in a marriage, it may be a valid marriage or a religious marriage, then as a clear starting point, no matter how long you have lived in this country. And I will only be happy if those responsible in such cases go to jail or if they are deported, because here we must be on the side of women. Today's motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is about amending the repatriation law, so that the payment of the aid is stopped immediately if the recipient commits crime in the country of origin after the repatriation. The proposal arises from the tragic case of a Syrian man, Hussein Abbas, who allegedly stoned his wife and son in Syria. According to Kristeligt Dagblad, Hussein came to Denmark from Syria in 2015 and returned to Syria with repatriation support in February. Hussein's wife, Huda Ali Ahmad, and the couple's three children, who also lived in Denmark, went to Syria where Hussein allegedly killed his wife and son Azad. According to Kristeligt Dagblad, Hussein was paid the first instalment of his repatriation aid of over DKK 100,000, and the next instalment will be paid next year, i.e. Total approx. 215,000 tax dollars. Against this background, the proposers propose the immediate and retroactive introduction, in order to cover Hussein, of a condition laid down in the law that transfers be suspended and that money already transferred be recovered if the repatriated person commits crimes of violence or the like during or for a number of years after repatriation. I would like to start by stating that I fully agree with the authors of the motion that it is quite wrong and untenable if Danish tax dollars are to go to a man who allegedly stoned his wife and son. At the same time, I would also like to make it clear that I fundamentally believe that the repatriation scheme is a good and attractive opportunity for those who wish to return voluntarily to their home country, because it is people who give up the right to be in Denmark. It can, for example, be done. If they have not settled in this country or if they want to spend their old age in a home country, they have emigrated from many years ago. The return money has also been strengthened several times, also in cooperation with the proposers, and many benefit greatly from the scheme, which can be a good solution for the individual foreigner, but also for Danish society, also in economic terms. But of course the specific case is quite unforgivable, and it must be said that it is of an exceptional nature. The rules on repatriation are today such that, overall, the aid is only granted to persons legally resident in Denmark, i.e. persons convicted of crime and in this context expelled from Denmark, or persons whose residence permit has been withdrawn due to crime. You can't get this return support. There are also rules that the money cannot be given to persons who evade prosecution or execution in Denmark. There are, therefore, a number of safeguards against the granting of repatriation aid to criminals, but I must also say that this has not proved sufficient either. I therefore also agree with the authors of the motion that the coverage of the specific case from Syria on a very sad basis shows that there is a need to look at the law. As the rules are today, the Return Act does not regulate crime committed in the country of origin after repatriation has taken place. A person who commits crime in his country of origin between payment of the first and second instalments is therefore not disqualified from receiving the second instalment due to crime. However, in my view, it should not be possible to travel from Denmark with Danish tax dollars in the suitcase and then commit serious crime and then receive another instalment of Danish support. I therefore agree with the authors of the Danish People's Party that there is a need for a change in the law, and I will also look, as I have already indicated publicly and here to the Danish Parliament, at a change in the law on repatriation. And it is my ambition that the law may be changed from the next assembly. Of course, I cannot comment on the specific case, but I can say in general terms that the law does not require crime not to be committed in order to receive the second instalment. The redeployment aid currently consists of various types of benefits which can be granted as necessary and which are either paid in two instalments or paid in connection with the exit. In the case of benefits paid in two instalments, it is a condition for the second instalment to be paid, that 12 months have elapsed from the date on which Denmark left Denmark, or that the extension of the right of withdrawal has expired, and that you continue to be repatriated in the country of origin or residence. There is therefore no requirement to examine whether a person has been convicted of crime as a condition for the payment of the second instalment and, like the proposers, I think that is wrong. We are therefore also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration looking at whether there is an opportunity to resume and possibly reverse a case when an applicant commits serious crime. And as I have already indicated, I can also understand that it looks difficult. In fact, there are no provisions in the Return Act today to enable a case to be reopened when serious crime has been committed. There is therefore no possibility of depriving an applicant of the second instalment of the repatriation aid on the basis of the Return Act. I also agree with the proposers that there is a need to see whether a requirement to investigate crime after leaving Denmark should also apply to persons who have already been granted repatriation aid under the current rules, but where the second instalment has not yet been paid. Such a system raises some difficult legal issues which need to be assessed in greater detail and which we are in the process of assessing. It may be a little technical, but it is a matter of inter alia. whether the scheme would lead to the disqualification of an already acquired right and, if so, whether the scheme would involve expropriation under Section 73 of the Constitution and whether the scheme could be implemented within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. I have asked my officials to look into these issues in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and asked them to turn every stone, and I am still optimistic and confident that we will find a way. And as I promised in a consultation on the same matter, I will also inform the Folketing immediately of the results of these investigations. And I very much hope that it is possible to amend the law so that the amendment of the law will also include situations such as those in the current case of Hussein. It is the municipalities that deal with applications for repatriation, and it varies greatly from municipality to municipality, how many applications they receive. Therefore, when the law is to be amended, a solution must be found that, on the one hand, we are aware that no money is paid out to someone who has committed serious crime in his country of origin and, on the other hand, both ensures that the solution is manageable for the municipalities and that the scheme is still attractive to the target group. I have asked my officials to examine how the law can be amended so that these two considerations are balanced. It is probably too early to say anything more concrete about exactly what the change of law might look like, but one might imagine that the municipality should investigate it further if they become aware of or there is reason to believe that the person who has been repatriated has committed serious crime before the second instalment is paid. And if the municipality is verified that more serious crimes have been committed, then the second installment must be held. We are also in dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on possible ways to investigate and verify crimes committed abroad. Of course, it is not quite straightforward, because in some parts of the world it is of course harder to investigate and verify such things, but the law will probably also have to take into account: that there is a difference between the justice system in, for example. Iran and Sweden. When I speak of more serious crime, I also believe that a balance needs to be struck here. We should not set a whole system in motion if someone has stolen a bicycle or has been driving too fast after he has been repatriated from Denmark, but we can and must expect that if someone is repatriating and then committing serious crime, they should of course not be able to receive further support. As I understand it, the proposers also propose that the requirement to examine whether a person has been convicted of crime after his departure from Denmark should apply for a number of years after his repatriation. It is too early to establish how long the requirement to investigate subsequent crime will apply, but as I see it, it is clear that as long as the Danish state receives repatriation aid, we must demand that no crime be committed. But I also feel that once the right of withdrawal has expired and the second instalment has been paid and you have finally given up your life in Denmark to establish yourself abroad, we cannot continue to control people; then it is people who do not have a residence permit in Denmark and who live in another country. The returnees have at this time said a final goodbye to our country, and the crime that may be committed in the country of origin is then a matter between the country of origin and the individual citizen. Furthermore, it will be extremely difficult and probably resource-intensive if we are to keep track of the many people who establish themselves in other countries after their withdrawal period has expired. And it will probably also raise some major questions to try to recover this aid, which could have been paid up to several years earlier, from people living abroad. But I'm pretty confident about that too, and I think we're gonna find a good solution to that. Finally, I would like to say that the specific case has given rise to a new look at the system here. We are looking at the whole of the legislation, both because of this case and because of some other cases that have also been raised in the media. And it is my plan to put forward a bill in the next parliamentary assembly, so that quickly the inappropriateness of an otherwise important arrangement can be corrected, and I think that is important to say • good arrangement, which last year helped about 500 people to leave Denmark with money in their pockets and with a future in their home country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124430	There are brief comments. It's first, sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124433	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Minister sees the sense in changing the law forward, but I do not think there is a single Dane in the Kingdom who believes that Hussein Abbas should have paid the remaining DKK 100,000. Does the Minister really think that there is no light at the end of the tunnel to slow down the payment of that money? And if it is not the case that you cannot slow down the payment of the money to him, can you not give it to his remaining children or anything else? There must be some way in which, with all the power we have here in the Folketing and which the government has, we can slow down the payment of the DKK 100,000. to Hussein Abbas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124515	I haven't finally turned off the lights at the end of the tunnel. I still have to look at black on white letters on white paper that the authorities in the particular case, and in this case it will be the municipality, must pay the second instalment. But what I have been told, as I am also obliged to say here from the platform, is that it looks difficult. But I think we should turn every stone in this area. I can well understand that it can be extremely difficult to understand that the legislation is really connected, and indeed I also have the expectation that we will be 179 Members in this Chamber who are going to change the law. Of course, one might wish that we had changed this law last year or last year or ten years ago, but perhaps it is also sometimes the case that there should be a concrete example before the Folketing takes action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124618	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124619	I fully understand that we must, of course, abide by the law, so I am glad that the Minister will turn every stone around. But this situation also underlines the importance of changing the repatriation law as soon as possible. It is not only because of this matter, but also because of some of the other imbalances, among others. the possibility of going out and then coming back, etc. Can we expect the Minister to call all parties for negotiations on this, so that we can give each of our inputs, or will there just come a bill from the Minister that we can then debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124656-2	I am actually prepared for us to do this after negotiations. I am also prepared to convene negotiations in the autumn when the Folketing opens again. I think that would be sensible and quite natural. I'm also quite sure that this is something we should be able to gather around pretty widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124718	Then it's Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124719	Thank you so much. As has been said before, there should be no doubt that New Citizens do not at all believe that the Return Act is a good law at all. We don't think you have to pay people to go out. But since it is as it is, I would really like to follow up on what was said before. The Minister says that we have to turn every stone, but it is we in here who are making the legislation, so if you think that there is a definite bias in the legislation, you have to change it from here. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124756	Yes, and I think that is a good approach, i.e. that you and I, as MPs, will react if we see that there is some legislation that does not work as intended. I refuse to believe that there is a single person who has had as part of their intention that people who have supposedly stoned their wife and son to death should have DKK 200,000. from the Danish state. That is why I think the right approach is to change the law in the next parliamentary assembly, and it is in order that if people commit serious crime before paying the second instalment, the municipality should be able to be in a situation in which it can refuse to pay the second instalment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124837	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124839	Thank you for that answer. Then there is what has also been mentioned earlier, namely that it makes absolutely no sense. The immigrants laugh all the way to the bank, when they can regret and come back and run for cashier one and ask for cash benefits. Does the Minister not also think that this is deeply, deeply problematic and something that needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124902	It is true that there are some who get paid the first installment and then regret. Then they have the opportunity to go home. Then, of course, they have to repay the first instalment, and there have been some problems with the fact that the municipalities have not had proper information to ensure that the money was repaid. I know that among other things. New citizens have also been active in tabling some committee questions. Fortunately, some of this problem has been resolved in a legislative proposal which, I believe, was dealt with in a third reading and finally adopted last week. It was a large, complicated legislation in which there was a small element that was about giving the municipalities some better information so that they were able to recover this money. Because it is not enough that it is written in the law that they should be recovered. In fact, they also have to be recovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124940	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611124941	I am glad if there can be as broad a majority in the Folketing as it is reported here and if the government even intends to vote in favour. What I just do not fully understand in the position of the government is the hesitation shown. I read the chronicle of the President of the Danish Parliament here on 5 June, where he outlined all the times we have suspended the general rules of time for dealing with legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament in the last period. There's been a good reason. But would it do so much, sir? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Actually, we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125034	I am not sure that it would be sensible for the Folketing to go in and decide on a specific matter, which should of course be decided by the authorities. But I think it makes sense for the Danish Parliament to adopt some general rules. It may well be that the general rules have implications for a specific case, but that is always the case when general rules are adopted. A draft law on the general rules, I think, should be tabled in the next session. I do not think it would be right for Parliament, on the basis of a single case, to put forward an urgent legislative proposal to settle a specific case between a specific man and, in this case, Nyborg Municipality, I believe it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125114	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125115	I must say that I find it deeply, deeply disappointing to hear the Minister for Integration. We are all in favour and dismay at what has supposedly happened, which has been described in particular in Kristeligt Dagblad, and then the Minister says that it is not intended to change the law in time for us to be able to change. I mean, what's that? I would ask the Minister to confirm that there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure or the Basic Law or anywhere else to prevent the Minister from simply making such a proposal now, and then we can deal with it urgently so that the situations we have seen described in the newspapers are avoided.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125155	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125156	I have no objection to a legislative proposal being tabled quickly. What I am just warning you about is that Parliament, as a legislative assembly, is taking a single case and handling it in this Chamber. And then there is still a need for legal clarification as to whether it is possible, within the framework of the Constitution, to adopt any legislation which means that the second instalment should not be paid. I hope there is, but it's not safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125223	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Christian Langballe in search of a place, and one must have just found it so that a question can be asked. Otherwise, it could happen from upstairs. We'll do it from the platform and then you'll have to go back and forth. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125317	Thank you for the floor, and I'm sorry for all this fuss. I just need to find my place. What I want to ask is really so simple: why can't we do something about this? Well, I think there are a lot of people, including myself, who are wondering that when a crime like this has been committed, you just send some money to this murderer who has committed this bestialous murder of both his wife and his son. There has to be some answer that the Minister can give, and it can be said that the Minister is sitting with the authority; if so, let it be slowed down. I don't understand why it has to be so difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125410	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125416	Well, sir. Christian Langballe and many other Danes are not the only ones who are frustrated by this situation, because I am the same myself. That is also why I have asked the Ministry to tell me in black and white that Nyborg Municipality is in any case obliged to pay the second instalment. I have not had that answer yet in black and white. That is also why I should like to say to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, that I still regard it as a little light at the end of the tunnel, but that the honest answer from the officials is also that I probably shouldn't put my nose up for it and that it looks difficult. But that does not change the fact that I still intend to demand an answer which is clearly stated that it is impossible. As soon as I have that answer, I'll pass it on to the Folketing, but I'm just not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125516	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125518	I do not think it is very encouraging to say that there is light at the end of the tunnel, but the officials say that it is not possible, so there is no light after all. What, then, is it that you ride after or go after? There's something special about this. I think that sometimes in this government of the people we have, we are reminded that it is also about taking on the character of a politician and then saying how you want to feel and then slowing down this installment. I think, to be perfectly honest, that this must be the way to do it, and the Minister can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125602	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125605	I'd like to step in and tell you how I want to feel. I want it to be the case that if you commit serious crime in the country of origin between payment of the first and second instalments, the second instalment should not be paid if you commit less serious crimes, and not if that happens, long after you have received the second instalment, but between the first and second instalments. Because there I still think we should have a little leash on the case. That is why we are also tabling a legislative proposal to change the law. But it cannot be that there is a single case that means that we break the law, because then everything stops. So let us change the law and preferably in a way where it has implications for ongoing cases, if possible. But we need to change the law first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125647	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we can now embark on the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125659	Thank you. As we have been able to read about in the media, a young woman and her 8-year-old son were brutally killed earlier this year during a family visit to Syria. The killing should be motivated by the fact that the young woman did not want to move back to Syria with her husband, who had chosen to use the repatriation scheme, that is to say, the scheme in which we provide financial aid for refugees to return home, in return for saying goodbye to their Danish residence permit. There is the death of the young woman a tragic reminder of the freedom struggle that several women of Middle Eastern origin are fighting in these years. Now it turns out that the killer stands to receive the second and last installment of his repatriation aid, and that is, of course, completely crazy. That is why I am also pleased that the government and the Minister have already taken a stand on this issue, and the Minister has long since announced this in a number of media. He has also reported that the government is suggesting that the law should be amended. We have just confirmed this again so that it takes better account of, among others. crime. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the resolution, but we fully agree with the intention. And a way out, or a runway, could possibly be • now that it is clear that the intention is widely anchored • that we could jointly make a report and then follow up with what really counts, and these are the negotiations that the Minister has now announced from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125827	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125830	Yeah, there's a lot of things I do under mr. Rasmus Stoklund to be close to power etc. Rasmus Stoklund, it must be that one must in all things defend a minister who has an incredibly bad cause. And that's where we're gonna see sir. Rasmus Stoklund today, which is why we have to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund about the same thing the Minister would not answer. Now that we all know this deeply tragic matter, which has been intertwined in Kristeligt Dagblad in particular, and we know that what the Minister is supposed to be trying to do is not going to solve the problem, how can we bring it to the Folketing today and say that we are all in agreement? We're not, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, because what the Minister is proposing is that the law be amended only after the second installment has been paid to the alleged murderer in Syria. What we want to do is stop this now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611125922	I don't agree with Mr. Knox. In fact, Morten Messerschmidt did not do anything that is being said here. Firstly, it is wrong that the Minister does not want this to be resolved now; if it could be resolved now, it should be resolved now. That is what the Minister is saying, and we all agree on that. But it should also be the case that all the parties in here agreed that when the letter of the law says that something is not possible, the Folketing cannot require the municipality or any other authority to break the law. It is clear that if some note were to come, that is what has been promised to us sometimes, i.e. that it is going to be black and white; that is what is the fear, namely that it is not possible to do so; the consequence of the fact that we insist on doing so is that we demand that a Danish authority should break the law. We can't live with that. But if, on the other hand, it says that it can be done if we do this and that, then it is quite obvious, and then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right that it should not be a time limit or anything else that means that we do not act quickly and ensure that this man does not receive his second installment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130019	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130022	Well, sir. Rasmus Stoklund simply has to speak against better knowledge. This motion for a resolution, which I assume he has taken note of, does not, of course, oblige the government to stop payment; it requires the government to secure the legal basis in order to stop a payment, both concrete and forward-looking. So it is not the case that we are standing here and will give instructions... they have been given abundantly, both from the Ministry and from elsewhere... no, what we want is a new law. And there we just have a minister who does not want to act, and so we run the risk of having the money sent to Syria and then they are gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130056	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130057	But it is not true that the Minister will not act. But it is clear that if there is no legal basis for deciding retroactively that this man cannot be paid his second instalment, then the Minister cannot conjure it up, no matter how much we could of course agree that it would be desirable from the description we have of the media and the press. However, we are obliged to comply with the law and we cannot demand legislation with retroactive effect if, for example, it would be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130129	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130134	Thank you so much. Then I will follow up on what I asked the Minister before. Well, I know the Danish Parliament makes Denmark's laws, so if there is no legal basis in the legislation now, I guess we just have to make it. And I actually think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt made it quite clear in the past that we have shown for some time that the Danish Parliament can actually deal with legislation as a matter of urgency, so I guess it's just getting started and getting that legislation done. Anyway, we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130205	Yes, we just need to be absolutely sure what legislation we have to make, so that we do not have a new case in a few months' time when someone else has done something unacceptable. That is why we are doing a good piece of legislation which prevents us from seeing this sort of thing in the future. And if anyone in this Parliament had had a feeling that we would see examples of a man who might stone a young woman and a little boy, then the Folketing would have taken that into account. But this kind of madness has not been imagined, so there is probably not a legal basis at the moment to prevent this payment. Unfortunately, there are indications of this. But there it is that we have to hope that we will manage to find a hook on which to hang it, which provides the necessary legal basis. Alternatively, we must jointly ensure that this legislation is updated, and there the Minister has promised that there will be negotiations on new legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130254	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130255	Let's do it now, because this is urgent. This legal basis can be made by the Danish Parliament. We're ready to make that legal basis so that you can stop this obvious madness, where right now you're simply rewarding a killer for killing your wife and son. It's totally grotesque. In other words, the entire repatriation legislation is, in our opinion, a completely stupid patching-up to some problems we have. But this specific example is so crazy that we think that of course the Folketing should come together, make the legal basis, get the legislation done, so that this is stopped now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130337	Well, I agree it's a grotesque case. No one can disagree with that. And if there was anything we could do, then yes. However, as far as I am aware, we do not have the opportunity to legislate retroactively. And as long as we don't have that option, it's not an option. And what we come back to is that the questioner here continues to insist on only talking about this specific matter, but it is of course a question of preventing us from seeing something like this in the future; that is to say that it will be possible, and we still have to get away from that, the final answer to finding a hook to hang it up on, in relation to not having to pay out the second instalment, which everyone is angry about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130417	The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe from DF. Welcome back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130423	Thank you. But what's just asked is why you have to spend six months sitting in study circles and trying to figure it out. Get me a legal home now. In other words, it must be extremely simple to get that legal basis and then do so retroactively so that the money is not paid out. After all, it is outrageous and grotesque that a man who comes from here and has received a return grant stoned his wife and son, lures them down and stoned them, and then pays the money that people have gone to work to earn. That's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130513	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130514	Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Christian Langballe didn't convince me. I fully agree with that. Nobody here thinks it's grotesque. But it is clear that we are a community of law and we cannot adopt anything here that is contrary to the Constitution or to other legislation, and that is why we should not legislate retroactively. We only do this with exceptional exceptions where something else needs to be at stake. Otherwise, we won't. Legislation is not adopted retroactively, and we do not have a basis for doing so. That's why it's not a solution, and that's why the solution to this is to make sure that we don't see that kind of thing in the future. I think that would be the risk if, as some people in this Chamber would like to see, we now wanted to be very effective in adopting something written down on the back of a napkin at the coffee machine.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130605	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130607	Surely it must be possible to define this very quickly and then to say that people who commit such a monstrous crime should not receive repatriation benefits. It must surely be possible to find out, even for the Socialist Government. I'd say that's simple. I would also like to say that I agree with the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party that this repatriation scheme is a patchy solution. We also agree with that in the Danish People's Party. Of course, this is clearly a patchy solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130644	Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130645	As far as the last part is concerned, it is true that this repatriation scheme is a system that we have, because immigration to Denmark has been too large for too many years. There are some who have never settled here, and now we have found a way for some of them to go back home. In a way, sometimes I can share the indignation. Nor is it an undivided enthusiasm that I myself feel for the scheme, but on the other hand, on the basis of such a cost-benefit analysis, I would say that after all, I am in favour of it anyway, because it is a good investment for Danish society to pay a small sum for some people to leave Denmark permanently and no longer on transfer income etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130718	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur to whom I should like to welcome is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130741	Thank you for the floor. Like the authors of the motion for a resolution, we in the Left also share the concern that Denmark is paying repatriation aid to recipients who commit crime in their country of origin. Unfortunately, this proposal has arisen on the basis of a very tragic matter. Huda Ali Ahmad and her son Azad were killed by their husband and father. Huda had integrated into the Danish society, she had learned Danish and taken an education. For her and her children, Denmark was the future. She went to Syria with her husband and their three children, but planned to return to Denmark. I'm afraid that never happened. We are left with an obvious gap in legislation... a gap we need to close. This is an absurd situation which we must urgently rectify. In addition, B.T. was able to uncover that a young immigrant who had received DKK 106,000. in repatriation support, disappeared prior to departure. This might suggest that there are more holes we need to close beyond the gap we are discussing here today. We in the Left are pleased that the Minister has said that he will table a bill at the beginning of the next session to close the gaps in the legislation. In the Left, we support the repatriation law, which we believe is a good tool for getting more foreigners to return voluntarily. The Left can therefore support the motion for a resolution. We should not pay out money to repatriates who commit crime in their country of origin. That has never been the intention of the law, and it undermines public confidence in the laws we pass in here when such a thing happens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130914	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130919	Thank you so much. Well, I'm glad to hear that the Left also thinks this needs to change. But I am a little curious to hear whether the Left really believes that it is a good idea to pay incredibly high amounts of money to people who either disappear or regret coming back to Denmark and applying for cash assistance. Is this the solution? Is the Left's best-convinced repatriation law the solution to ensuring both that migrants are kept out of the country, but also that they leave when their residence permit expires?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130957	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611130958	Yes, we are happy with the repatriation law and are happy that it works so that if you regret and return, you will of course also pay back the money that has been paid by the Danish state. It is important that we give people an incentive to go back to their homeland if they do not have a future for them here in Denmark. Many people accept that, and it is a good business for the Danish state. But such things as what we are witnessing here undermine the whole programme if we fail to make legislation to ensure that, of course, money is not paid out to people who commit crime like the one we have witnessed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131037	If you want another comment, you have to remember to press in. But Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131041	Thank you. All right, I just want to understand: so the Left rapporteur sincerely believes that it is true that hundreds of thousands of dollars of Danes' money are being paid for migrants to leave? Some of them may regret and come back, but some of them also stay out, but the Left believes that the Danish state should pay such insanely large sums of money for it? Does the Left not think that there must be another solution to this, namely that one simply says that they must disappear, one can say, from Denmark, when their residence basis stops being there, that we stop letting more people in and that foreigners staying in Denmark must support themselves? Would that not be a better solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131126	So, in the Left, we are pleased that we have made a scheme that makes sure that the Danish state has less spending on these people than it would have if they had stayed in Denmark and had withdrawn money from the Danish system. So, of course, we support that part. We are also pleased that we have a system where you cannot receive money if you regret and return again. It's a decent thing to do. We can then look at the cases that have been now, that this system needs to be corrected, and we would very much like to support the Danish People's Party in that we get done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131200	Thank you. The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131204	Thank you. Now it may sound a little strange that I criticise the rapporteur, given that the rapporteur is voting in favour of our motion for a resolution, but I should like to make a few comments about it. I think, of course, that the repatriation scheme is a patchy solution. You can then make economic calculations in relation to it, when it has to be, as the rapporteur has done, and I am in agreement with that, but after all, it is my clear conviction, and it has been my party's clear conviction, that those people who do not belong in this country, of course, and no doubt only have to be returned. There are a lot of things that make it impossible, but I find it difficult to understand how changing governments have not been able to get through, that these people simply have to be sent back and the countries from which they come must be forced to take them back, and that is where you need all the tools you have: you have to use detention of foreign aid and everything else. I simply do not understand that this has not happened so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131311	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131312	Well, I basically agree with Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, but I have also been long enough in this area to know that in practice it is often difficult to get people to go back. Whatever agreements you make and no matter how much effort you make, getting people who do not have a future for themselves in Denmark to return to where they come from is a huge task, and I do not think we should limit the tools we have at our disposal to accomplish that task. I will quote Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the last consultation on this, and I fully agree with her when she says that as long as the repatriation scheme is a financial gain for Denmark and helps fewer people stay in Denmark, we naturally support that scheme. In fact, I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131411	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131412	So am I, and that's good. But that is not the discussion. After all, this repatriation scheme is a patchwork solution due to the lack of a better one, because it has not come through with the basics that countries should then, I think, this weak Europe, including Denmark, behave so weakly towards these countries. Instead, it should be said that it is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131450	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131451	I fully agree that this is a huge challenge. I also notice that, for example, a nation like Britain spends extremely many resources on every single return case, where they want people out of the country, although they have much more weight to put in these repatriation cases than a small country like Denmark has. It's a big challenge, and I'm sorry we have to pay people to leave Denmark when they don't have a future here, like this one. is expressed. However, I note that, unfortunately, it is necessary as foreign policy operates in the world in which we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131525	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131529	Thank you for the floor and for a good speech. I agree with the intentions and intentions and the main message. The only thing that puzzles me a little is how the Left, which is also a party that respects the division of power and so on, can support a motion for a resolution in which the Folketing will indirectly be a kind of judiciary, because there are named people in this proposal. In other words, was it not a more realistic runway to make a joint report in the committee work now that there is broad support for us to solve this problem and then launch the political negotiations that will lead to new legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131616-2	I don't see myself as part of a judgmental power when I stand here. Nor do I feel that you are if you support the fact that, on the basis of a specific case, you ensure that you solve a problem which may be greater. In my speech, I also point out that there is another matter that has arisen which shows that there are more gaps in this legislation that we need to have patched up quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131643	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131645	Yes, but nevertheless, the resolution is also about resolving this specific issue, which is now well described in the media, and that is not Parliament's job. It is, of course, a matter for the courts to resolve legal conflicts and breaches of law. That's where I think things get mixed up a little here. We have a motion for a resolution which mentions a specific crime which the Folketing will then adopt on something about, rather than making a new piece of legislation in a political negotiation process, which then took account of other types of cases as well, as Mr. Mads Fuglyde's on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131722	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131725	We're not supposed to touch the three-part power. Neither does this resolution. I do not see that in any way is the intention with the proposal or the effect of it, but we need a specific case to solve a problem that can bring with it more specific cases, and we must then start from that. And if we can resolve it in such a way that we end up not having to pay out this money in this particular case, then I think we will get to a very good place where we can both maintain popular support for the legislation in force and ensure that there are no similar cases along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur we should welcome is the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131813	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a quite excellent motion for a resolution. In the Radical Left, like the rest of the Folketing, we are very frustrated and upset by this terrible case where a father has killed his wife and son. In no way do we want to see 100 000 kroner paid out. to this father in repatriation support. Here we are completely in line with the Danish People's Party. We also agree that, in the future, if serious violations of law have been committed, which is also illegal in Denmark, we must be able to take the money away from it. We are therefore in favour of the proposal. However, we would also like to hear and are pleased to have heard the Minister's legal assessments. We have noticed that the government has said that there is a change of law on the way. So we look forward to further work. And I can also say that we are already in the process of writing a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131915	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611131918	Thank you, President. It is not entirely clear to me how what the government has announced to the Folketing solves the problem that the radical rapporteur and I agree exists. We have the specific case from Syria, which has been mentioned several times, but what the Minister is proposing is a legislative proposal for next year. This case is probably closed. So if we are to have the opportunity in any way to stop the madness that I think we all feel we want to stop, what the government is going to do is not enough. That is why I hope that the Radical Left will then also put action behind words and vote for this motion for a resolution, so that we instruct the government to act now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132006	There's nothing we'd rather do than put an end to this father getting the last money he's, unfortunately, entitled to. But we are also a rule of law, and the law is right for both Loki and Thor, so sometimes we also have to get over our own moral quabbles and act in accordance with the rule of law. There is now a separation between the legislative and executive powers. That is why I am probably not quite in line with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. However, as I said, we are very much looking forward to working on it. We think it is timely and entirely appropriate to take action here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132050	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132051	I must say that there is some confusion about what appears to be singular legislation. In all modesty, I have taught it, so allow me to ask a bit of a leading question. In the case of a motion for a resolution, what has legal force vis-à-vis the government is not the comments, but the proposal itself, and so the proposal itself reads as follows: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to propose amendments to the Return Act by 2020 so that the payment of repatriation aid is stopped immediately if the recipient commits crime in the country of origin after repatriation. ▪ I cannot see with my own best will how it can be singular legislation or otherwise compromise the constitution. Can the rapporteur do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132135	I think that the questioner will probably also, after listening to the Minister today, be very pleased that, as the questioner also points out, by 2020, as the Minister also says, in the next session, we will look at it in a proper way so that the legislative proposal is properly worked out and everyone's legal certainty is taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132154	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132203	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for debating the matter of repatriation aid for a refugee who ended up killing his wife, Huda, and their 9-year-old son. This is an important matter, not only because we need to find a solution to the obvious injustice, it is that a murderer can get away with such grotesque action and even keep his financial support, but also to honor Huda's fight for liberation. All Huda did was seek freedom from social compulsion, freedom to live. The migration on the Danish motorway formed the basis for her rapid transition to a better life. She sought a better future for herself, the son and her unborn twins. But she had not only the companionship of thousands of others with the same tale; a chain from the past did everything to prevent her from doing so, a chain consisting of all that she fled from. During her time in Denmark she was getting more and more free from the chain. She began to live a Danish life in Danish, a model example of a woman who struggles for the right to be herself. But just as she was ready to step into the light and throw off her reins, the chain tore her back; back to the place of escape. The chain had fatal consequences. I cannot describe in words my contempt for Huda's fate. Her chains of social compulsion are at odds with everything I believe in, and I will do everything I can to ensure justice for Huda and all other women who are fighting the same battle. And although the issue is not specifically about women's liberation, it is about seeking justice for Huda. That is why we must turn every stone of our legislation around. It seems to me, under all criticism, that there is not already a clear provision in the legislation which blocks payment to criminals. That is why we must and must go as far as we can within the framework of the constitution and conventions. Because although it may seem ludicrous that we cannot simply hold back a payment to a person who has committed such a detestable act, we must first of all stand firm on the principles of the rule of law. Existing laws and rules apply to all citizens and all their actions, even if we can agree that the rules can be improved. And that is precisely why we have come together today to create fairer legislation. I would appeal to us to cooperate broadly on this and, as I said, I find many positive things in this motion for a resolution, but I would nevertheless call for us to make it clear that only criminal offences under Danish criminal law should lead to the cessation of aid, including the introduction of a de minimis threshold for offences. I am sure that together we can find a compromise with which everyone can agree. We shall find a common solution. I hope so, but I must stress once again that we should not be tempted to override the foundations on which our civilised country is built. We must not get away from the rights-based society that Huda fought to become a part of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132557	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132602	Thank you. I would just like to sign for a good speech and for the rapporteur to suggest that we have to resolve this, so that there are no more women, children or others in similar situations. And that is one of the things we can solve together in a negotiation process with a view to introducing new legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132623	I think it was just a comment, and I just wanted to say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132630	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132633	I must admit that I find it very worrying to hear that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund has just said that we should act only in relation to new cases. It may, of course, be that the law in the way it should be formulated should not be about the specific case alone. It should also apply to the future, but I think it is absolutely crucial that we resolve the specific case as well. I find it sad that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has ended there that he is so afraid to solve the specific case that he will only talk about forward-looking matters. What is the problem here, and thank you for both the content and emotional part of the speech, which I thought was very good, is that in the specific case, the payment is to be made during this year, and that is why we do not have time to wait for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, and whoever else we have in the Social Democratic Party, will make a proposal sometime next year, because then the specific case will not be solved, as a majority of the Folketing wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132726	Halime Oguz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132727	I fully agree with the questioner on this and, as I stressed time and time again in my speech, this is also about justice for the woman and her son whom it has suffered. And, as I said, I would like us to simply turn all the pieces of legislation around, of course, within the framework of the Constitution, because it should not be unconstitutional and we should also go in and look at this matter in concrete terms. We are very, very open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132802	I would just like to confirm completely that this motion for a resolution can be adopted within all the framework of the Constitution, and then remind both Mrs Halime Oguz and those who may be listening to from various ministries that this is quite common practice, among other things. in the field of tax legislation, to allow laws to be applied from the time of submission. And that means that if the Minister wanted to, he could put forward a bill now with the date of entry into force from the time of submission. It would be perfectly compatible with the Basic Law... he just doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132832	As long as it is within the framework of the Constitution, we in the SF will certainly press for it to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132840	Thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz. There are no more brief comments. It's Enhedslisten's turn. Welcome to Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611132854	Thank you. The very large majority of the people who come to Denmark as refugees are law-abiding citizens who are deeply grateful and accept the help that we offer them and who do their very best to be integrated and contribute to Danish society. During the spring, Kristeligt Dagblad described a very, very unhappy case of a man who stayed in Denmark as a refugee and who, after his return to Syria, killed his wife and their son, which, according to Kristeligt Dagblad, he confessed during a hearing with the Kurdish authorities in Kobani, North Syria. The man returned to Syria with repatriation support. It now uses the Danish People's Party as an opportunity to demand a change in the rules on repatriation aid. In the Enhedslisten, we would like to help look at the rules to see if a system can be put together so that people convicted of very serious crime lose their right to support. I can guarantee immediately that if the Minister calls for negotiations, we can come that day. Such an arrangement also raises some problems. Will it only apply if the crime is committed immediately after the return to the home country, or should a system be introduced so that the Danish State should be entitled to reimbursement in the event of crimes committed decades after the return? And how are we sure that crime has actually been committed? Is there going to be a verdict? Not all countries from which refugees come have a legal system as well-functioning as the Danish one. For many refugees, it is precisely for the reason that they have fled, in other words that there is no functioning legal system where they have fled. There may be, for example: be legal systems where torture is used to promote confessions. It's not a legal system. In this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party also proposes that the new system should apply retroactively with the aim of including money from the person named in the resolution. Retroactive legislation cannot be supported in the Enhedslisten, but we would very much like to be involved in looking at how we can change the repatriation scheme • whether there are some things we can do differently. Basically, I believe that it is a good arrangement for refugees to be given financial aid to be able to get on their feet in the country from which they have fled, but it is clear that the Danish state should not pay out money to people who commit this kind of crime. However, I do not believe that legislation can be made with retroactive effect. I also think that the case dealt with in the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party confirms that we have a problem of negative social control in Denmark, a problem which has not been resolved here. After all, this is a system which has not seen a woman who has been subjected to negative social control. I think Kristeligt Dagblad has revealed that very well. And I think we should actually have a debate on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And how to get rid of negative social control, we have lots of good suggestions in the Enhedslisten. But to come back to the Danish People's Party's proposal, I would say that we cannot support it in the Enhedslisten because there are some questions that it does not answer and because it is retroactive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133229	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133234	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for confirming the concrete state of the Enhedslisten in relation to foreign policy. In other words, where in this debate some parties have actually tried to be nuanced on the issue, and indeed also in concrete terms, there is something encouraging about the fact that one always knows where one has Enhedslisten: if one can find an excuse to vote against an otherwise sympathetic proposal, one will do so at every opportunity. I would therefore just like to ask whether Mrs Rosa Lund will confirm that this is quite common, among other things. in the field of taxation, to apply the kind of retroactivity that I have outlined in the previous debate. Or does Mrs Rosa Lund also believe that these laws have violated the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133321	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133321-2	First of all, I think it's fun to hear from sir. Morten Messerschmidt states that it is Enhedslisten who is in a concrete state in the field of foreigners. Because it can be said that Mr. Nor is Morten Messerschmidt's own party particularly sensitive to the foreign debate. That's one thing. The second point is that I simply do not think that we can legislate retroactively in the way that the Danish People's Party is proposing. I would like to see the rules on repatriation. As I said, the Enhedslisten can sit down and talk about it, but I think there are some things that this resolution simply does not answer and that we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133354	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133355	There are plenty of things this resolution does not answer. But there is one thing that it answers to, and that is the specific case in Syria that we will resolve, and then from there also forward-looking. That is exactly what Mrs Rosa Lund cannot do when she joins the government. Because if there is one thing that is certain, then it is that the government's slowness in this matter will not solve the specific issue. So I am fully committed to the fact that this motion for a resolution has been written by myself and is thus neither divine nor otherwise infallible. But that's not what's important. What is important is that it answers and solves a very specific issue. And who chooses Enhedslisten to stand on the wrong side of the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133431	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133432	That's it, sir. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, because I do not think we can solve the specific issue in the way Mr. Morten Messerschmidt suggests. In other words, it is not a question of us not being interested in resolving it; on the contrary. It is a question that we do not think this is the solution, and I think that is actually a very good starting point for a debate, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt: That we are all interested in solving a problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133457	The next question is Mrs. Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133501	Thank you. The rapporteur talked about legislation and that other countries' legal systems do not really work. I would actually like to ask that if we now get the text into force, that will apply under Danish law, will the Enhedslisten support the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133528	Again, I find it difficult to support something that works with retroactive effect. But it is clear that it will help it, that it will have to be according to Danish legislation. But I still think there are some unanswered questions, for example. how long after the crime must be committed. There are also some unanswered questions about whether there really is any misuse of power in this. But for me, it's hard to make legislation with retroactive effect in this way. That's more what the criticism is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133601	You have to keep in mind if you want to make another comment. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133605	I would really like to know whether the rapporteur can support this motion for a resolution which has retroactive effect if it is not unconstitutional. We are a left-wing party and we are fighting for women's rights. Does the rapporteur not think that we owe it to Huda, who wanted to free herself from his shackles and live a free life with her son, that we also think of her in this matter and not the killer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133643	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133644	Yes, I certainly think so, and that is also why I say in my rapporteur's speech that, unfortunately, this is an example of the fact that we are far too bad to discover it when women and other minorities are subjected to negative social control. So I think we definitely should. My concern is not with a man convicted in Kurdistan of killing his wife; that is not where my concern lies. My concern rests on rights and on women who are subjected to oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133714	Thank you to the rapporteurs. There is one more brief comment, and this time from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133719	Thank you so much. Well, I should just say that the rapporteur can then confirm that the rapporteur is not prepared to go into this matter in concrete terms and stop a murderer from getting money from the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133734	What I am specifically prepared for is that we find a solution to this problem and that we find out whether our repatriation scheme really does not work for the people for whom it should work. That's what I'm very interested in, and if it can solve this specific case, I'd think it was perfect. However, I am not sure that what is in this motion for a resolution is the right model, and that is why we are very much looking forward to the government calling for negotiations on this. And I think it has been very clear both in the daily press and in the Chamber today that the government is also interested in it, in other words to look at the repatriation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133806	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133807	The rapporteur therefore confirms that the rapporteur will not act now and resolve these specific problems. But it is fine that the rapporteur admits from the Parliament's platform that the Enhedslisten does not care that there is money going to a man who has murdered his wife and her son. Then there is another thing I would like to have confirmed by Enhedslisten, and this is about the social control issue that is so much talked about. I can then tell the rapporteur that it is actually Islam. That means that in Islam there is social control, so what will the Enhedslist specifically do about it? The Enhedslisten recognizes that Islam is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133845	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133846	But I think that Mrs Mette Thiesen should be careful not to put other words in her mouth. I never said I didn't care about this case, so I wouldn't want to do that. In relation to how we stop social control, I think, for example, that what we should do is introduce a consent-based rape legislation which gives women the right to their own bodies, and I look forward to seeing Mrs Mette Thiesen and New Citizens back up to help women in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133910	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611133915	Thank you to Mrs Lund for some sensible considerations. In addition, I would just like to say that an untruth is not real, no matter how many times it is repeated by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. For both the Minister and myself have said from the platform on several occasions today that if something can be done within the letter of the law which prevents the second instalment from being paid here, we must of course do so. The minister repeatedly said that he is awaiting the final document, where there is a legal assessment. Morten Messerschmidt has been able to do down from his desk to decide whether it is possible or not. That's one part. The second part is, of course, that if there is something we can do in law to prevent it, both in the current case and, of course, in future cases... there we can prevent it... that is what we have to do, and that is what we are working towards, and on which there is a broad consensus in the Folketing. I'm just gonna sign for it so that Enhedslisten will back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134007	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. In any case, it can be said that the debate that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund and Mr Morten Messerschmidt have confirmed through other rapporteurs how much we need to sit down together and talk about this and how interested we are all in solving this problem. So I think that's kind of a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134029	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go to the next rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134048	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward a very sensible resolution here. I am glad that we have at least partly been overtaken by reality and that the Minister is now going to change the law, at least overall. The situation of the murdered Hussein Abbas is just so incomprehensiblely sad, as everyone is saying here today, both for his family, but also for Danish society, which is now in danger of seeing powerless, while the second instalment of the more than DKK 200,000. will be sent down to him. That is why we also call on Conservatives to reverse all possibilities within the Constitution so that the money is not sent down to the man. Now we've had a corona crisis... we're still in a corona crisis... where we've shown that in a few days Parliament has been able to make tripartite negotiations and urgent legislation because it was necessary. This is very much necessary too. We must not risk another Hussein Abbas situation arising where a man or woman goes back and commits heavy crime and then we send money down to the person. For my sake, we could use the last few weeks before the summer break to start those negotiations instead of waiting for the autumn. We also run the risk that some of the other gaps in the law will not be closed and that they will be exploited. For example, as has been mentioned, there is the possibility of going home, receiving repatriation aid and then returning to Denmark after a period of time. After all, many of us here in the Folketing agree that there are many imbalances in this law that need to be corrected. So I am very much in favour of us getting this right now rather than waiting. So we Conservatives thank the Danish People's Party for the proposal. We shall vote in favour, and we shall also vote in favour of the motion if we can say so in this way that we would like to have the law negotiated as soon as possible instead of waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134251	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur we should welcome is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134304	The fact that the state rewards a murderer who has stoned his wife and his oldest child seems absurd. Yes, that's when it can happen anyway, it's due to the law on repatriation, as you know, a law that gives migrants hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash to leave Denmark and try to return to where they come from. There is no requirement for them to stay outside Denmark. Once the money is spent, you can return, you have a right of withdrawal of up to 2 years, and a lot of people use it. The hope of the politicians behind the scheme is probably that we can get the repatriations going along that path, and that may sound sympathetic at first, but is it a realistic way to go if we want fewer and no more unintegrable foreigners to be in Denmark? I don't think so. At the pace of the scheme now, for example, the over 20,000 migrants who came here to stay in 2015 and 2016 will be out again around 2050. The fact that they have probably tripled their numbers in the form of children and family reunification up to 2050 will then prolong the period until 2110. In other words, it should be obvious to everyone that voluntary repatriation with grants from the municipality does not solve anything. But it costs the Danes money, and the migrants laugh when they regret and return to Denmark and the next day again stand at the municipal office and say: Cash benefits, yes please. The Act of Repatriation is a typical patchwork that politicians in the Folketing have made far too many of over the years, because they will not grasp the root of the nettle and solve the immigration policy from scratch. That is why we end up with grotesque examples such as the murderer referred to in the motion for a resolution, who will receive a total of DKK 215,000. of the Danes' money, even though he is both arrested and confessed to the murders of his wife and son. 86 politicians in the Folketing voted as late as 29 May 2018 for the latest amendments to this law, no one voted against. If we in New Citizens had had four seats in the Danish Parliament in 2018, we would have felt loud and violently opposed. Instead of paying the repatriation allowance to migrants, you can stop letting them in for a start. A simple asylum freeze will reduce the problem over time. In addition, we must, of course, stop supporting foreigners. That's what they're supposed to do. The right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. If you cannot support yourself, you must lose your residence permit and leave. Finally, we must demonstrate consistently, after the first sentence, all foreigners convicted of crime. It is New Citizens' response to an alternative to decades of patchy solutions and an alternative that will solve the problems from scratch. However, as you know, we do not have a majority in favour of our policy, unfortunately, so far from it. That is why we consider it imperative to ensure at least that the legislation introduced and supported by a majority in the Folketing is amended so that repatriation is not paid to foreigners who commit crime in their country of origin after repatriation. New citizens support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134639	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur to whom we should welcome is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134648	Thank you. We agree with the Danish People's Party that the case referred to in the comments on the resolution has revealed a huge gap in the repatriation law. It makes no sense for the Danish State to sponsor persons who have committed serious crime after they were awarded the repatriation allowance. We also agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in that the motion for a resolution itself cannot in any way be called singular legislation, and that is why there is of course nothing wrong with adopting it. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134736	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611134755	Thank you, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs. It has been a subtle debate in which, on the outside, we can at least get the impression that we all want the same thing, but that there are some technical details that make it impossible to support this proposal anyway. I think this is a strange approach to what I really would like to highlight the SF rapporteur, because that was the most constructive thing. Yes, we do not agree on everything, but then we table some amendments, and then we see whether, when we meet again and debate it later, we can plan some of the knots or disagreements or just things that have been forgotten in the proposal. That is the way we normally work, instead of, as others do, and now the Enhedslisten seems to have left the room, to look for reasons to say that there is the excuse for why I can then vote no, and so completely refrain from having to deal with the tragic substance, which is the reality both concrete and, indeed, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, also forward-looking. I think it is an excellent idea, as the SF proposes, that we write in that it is, of course, crimes that must be compatible with the Danish penal code that we are talking about here. There are, after all, some of the countries where people go, which have a somewhat colourful way of seeing society, and therefore there may be some quite obvious injustices, if they are convicted of things that would cause you to lose your repatriation aid. So that's no problem for us. We also think it is quite right to talk about a minimum limit, and that is both for the sake of some reasonableness for those concerned, but indeed also for the Danish authorities. If the Danish authorities are going around most of the Middle East to find out if there is a traffic offense or something, then it may well be that the cost exceeds what we save by not having to send out the repatriation aid. So it's fine, too. What is not fine, however, is that my proposal violates the basic law. I simply will not accept that, and so I went to the Ministry of Justice's website, where there is a guide on the quality of law and now the minister here is not the Minister of Justice, but I wonder if you have someone in your office, it navigates a little later? On the other hand, the Basic Law is not considered to prevent a law from providing for its application to matters prior to its formal date of entry into force (time of enforcement). In such cases where the date of effect occurs earlier than the time of enforcement, it is said that the law has re-established force. That is exactly what I have repeatedly referred to today with reference to the Treasury, that is to say, if we now had a minister who wanted to put forward a legislative proposal now that it says that the date of entry into force is the date of entry into force, we would be able to deal with it either under an urgent procedure or under an ordinary procedure, but that would mean when it was adopted either next week or next month, or whatever it might be that the time of enforcement would be now. That is the crux of the matter, because then we would, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, both solve the concrete challenge and the general challenge. The problem is that we have a government that does not want to act now and that says that it will be at some point later this year, and we know what that means: yes, we are at least after October, right? And according to the daily press, we can see that the criminal here is being paid out his second payout in the course of 2020. I wonder if it has been paid out before the Minister comes forward with his proposal, or at least before the Minister gets it adopted? That is, of course, the problem, and it is just where I would like to highlight the SF and perhaps also the Radicals it was not quite as clear to take this in the proper way, so that we have some amendments that clarify the concerns about the time, about the criminal code, about a minimum limit, etc. So it is not we who stand in the way of it. The important thing is that we ensure that the law is accurate and fair and that it is at the right time, and this matter is not new. It is not the case that it was only yesterday that Kristeligt Dagblad and other newspapers rolled up the disgusts that have been seen happening in Syria, but it is of course for months. I think it is a month since I had the Minister in the Chamber for a round of questions about it, yet not a single resolution, a single legislative proposal, a single amendment, but it is a smurf. That is what we will no longer tolerate, and that is why we insist on having this proposal put to the vote, so that the government, unless, of course, it puts forward its own bill before the vote on this proposal, is required to act. I simply think that we owe it to the women who are treated in this disgusting way, but also to the rule of law and to those who pay for the repatriation aid. It is therefore for the taxpayers to correct this gap, and it is true, Mrs Pernille Vermund, that it does not solve all the problems of the repatriation law. If Mrs Pernille Vermund and I had 90 seats together, I think that the law would look completely different, perhaps it would be quite shorter and perhaps it would not exist at all but that is not the case. What is at stake is that we are faced with an acute and concrete problem, a case of glaring injustice, and that we have a government that is glaringly silent, and there I think many should thank the Danish Parliament for taking responsibility. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135329	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135336	Thank you. Where I am going to start is that I think the difference to some extent is that where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is able to clarify the legal assessments on his own, we are some who have to wait for some with more formal competences in that direction. In addition, it is, of course, a question of whether it is legislation that has to be retroactive, and there is also a question of whether it is perhaps really legislation on expropriation or whether it is legislation that we can adopt, for example. in the autumn or at the beginning of the new year, which may then have an entry into force before. And here's what Mr. According to my information, Morten Messerschmidt is being paid something wrong because, as far as I know, the man we are talking about today receives the second instalment in February 2021, and if we can adopt legislation with entry into force before then, hopefully, if it is possible to formulate such legislation, we can prevent him from getting the second instalment. That is the objective we all have, no matter how dramatic we express ourselves. I don't know if sir. Morten Messerschmidt will consider it a comment or a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135443	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135444	I think I take this as a question, because it gives me the opportunity to answer. I refer only to what I know from the press and it has been shown that the second instalment will be paid later this year. If sir... Rasmus Stoklund knows otherwise, it means that it gives more time to work, but it does not provide a good basis for not working. What are the reasons for this? For the time being, we have heard it with the retroactive effect of sweeping it aside with reference to what the Ministry of Justice writes on their website. Secondly, we have heard that it should be singular legislation, but it is total nonsense. I don't know who's been trying to tell you. Rasmus Stoklund admitted that this was supposed to be singular legislation, so it is not in the Thind Act that we are talking about here; we are talking about a general amendment to the Return Act. Thirdly, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund now it's so new in the debate here, but I've heard it in the hooks before that it was supposed to be an expropriative intervention. Fair enough, I just want to ask you: Rasmus Stoklund saw that this killer is bringing civil action before the Danish courts to claim that he has an expropriative claim on the state? I just think he should show up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135545	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135546	I kind of agree with that. If it is possible to adopt legislation that allows us to prevent the second instalment being paid, then we must do everything in our power to do that. The information I am referring to is also from the daily press. It is in B.T. that I have read that it is in February that this is to be paid out. That is why we now have a broad consensus that we need to have broad negotiations, and the Minister has promised to set up meeting rooms (Morten Messerschmidt Generous). ) must find a new solution to this, we must ensure that it enters into force before the second instalment is paid, if at all possible legally within the framework of what else we must comply with. That's my hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135622	I'm glad, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. I just have to say that the reason why we are here today is that nothing has happened so far. The government could have put forward a bill months ago when this came out in the press. Well, it's because of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund's government's smur, that we act, and if acting makes the government suddenly feel the urge to react, then of course you should not be thanked for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135649	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135653	Thank you. I would just like to look at a recent debate where the waves went a little high, sign for and rejoice at the idea that New Citizens and DF in this area could have 90 mandates. How wonderful that would be. So thanks for lighting a little light in an otherwise dark case in a series of dark cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135717	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135718	I am glad if I can bring light to Mrs Pernille Vermund's life. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135725	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135743	The debate is open. The first to be on the platform is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611135806	Thank you for the motion for a resolution. I would like to start by saying that I actually understand the concerns of the proposers. We have also discussed this in the previous Assembly. After all, a global pact on migration sounds as if we are now being committed to a whole lot in the area of migration, and it also sounds as if we have now limited our means of action in order to control immigration policy and immigration to Denmark itself. I therefore also understand that I have also said before the elections that such a comprehensive UN document on such an important political issue as migration, and how we should work together on it at a global level, naturally gives rise to discussion. However, it is also my view that there is no reason to be as concerned as I have seen people in the public debate, and I guess that there are still people who are, because although there is talk of a global pact on migration, the declaration, which is quite rightly the case, does not regulate who and how many people can come to Denmark, but migration is by its very nature a cross-border phenomenon, and therefore it is also essential to create a framework for constructive dialogue across borders and continents, and I believe that the UN Declaration on Migration actually provides an opportunity for that. This is therefore a political declaration which is ambitious, that migration must be safe, orderly and legal, and I and the government can only support that, just as the Folketing also did before the adoption of the declaration in 2018. Let me just say a few words about why I and the government cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution and thus Denmark's withdrawal from the migration declaration. Firstly, I would like to emphasise that the UN Declaration on Migration is not legally binding. That is clear from the statement itself and it is clear from the legal assessment presented by the previous government prior to the adoption of the declaration. Moreover, this is also the official assessment of the European Commission. The Commission has stated on several occasions that the declaration does not impose any additional obligations on countries. Although there is a leaked internal document from the Commission, the Commission has officially stated that the leaked note does not reflect the Commission's official assessment and position. Secondly, the UN Declaration on Migration has neither had nor will influence Danish foreign policy unless the government and the majority in this House wish to be inspired. The sovereign right of the States to decide who or how many may enter is clearly stated in the initial principles of the declaration. Thirdly, I should also like to comment on the authors' concern about multilateralism. I noted that the proposers quote a Belgian think tank which should have proclaimed the UN Declaration to be a victory for multilateralism. I do not share that concern either. I take the view that we are pursuing a fair foreign policy, and we intend to continue to do so, and that statement has no bearing on that. However, as I mentioned a little while ago, migration is a global, cross-border phenomenon, the challenges of which we cannot solve alone, and we need to work together, which we also have a good tradition of. Denmark is among others. dependent on well-functioning international cooperation in order to deploy irregular migrants, prevent secondary movements and limit influx to the European Union. I see the UN Declaration as a tool that we can use in the cross-border dialogue. It makes it easier for countries of destination, such as the United Kingdom, to make it easier for countries of destination. Denmark to bring up issues which other countries may perceive as sensitive and problematic, and although the declaration itself does not commit anyone to anything, it at least ensures that there is a basis for good dialogue. In fact, I believe that the declaration contains several interesting considerations, which may not be legally binding, but which we can actively make use of in the implementation of some of Denmark's other priorities in the field of aliens. I can, for example. Emphasises that it is now recognised, for the first time at global political level, that all countries are obliged to withdraw their own nationals and that countries must assist in promoting readmission; that is objective 21. I believe that the countries to which we have the challenges of sending people will not just change their position because a declaration has been adopted, but it is certainly a step in the right direction that a statement now says that this is the case. This is certainly a positive statement, not just for Denmark, but for the whole of the European Union, and I do not need to mention that we in Europe have been wandering for a long time with quite a few countries of origin, for example. Iran, to get them to take their own citizens back. I fully agree that the declaration does not, of course, solve all the challenges, including the challenges it may express, but it is nevertheless positive that the international community now recognises the obligation to withdraw its own citizens. There are also other parts of the declaration that are largely fleeing with the political visions we normally have here in Denmark in the field of foreigners. A common thread in the whole declaration is precisely the idea that migration must take place legally and safely, as irregular migration in the dinghy over the Mediterranean is causing very bad things for all parties, except for traffickers. It is also a position that we share in the government. We want to create a fairer asylum system, where far fewer irregular migrants arrive in Europe, die in the Mediterranean and are subjected to attacks on migration routes. In short, we want to control immigration to Europe and control immigration to Denmark. We must be able to decide for ourselves who is staying on the continent, and we must move away from a system where people cross many safe borders before they seek asylum in a country such as Denmark. Several of the objectives of the government's ambition for a new asylum system also coincide with the objectives outlined in the UN Declaration on Migration. Let me just highlight one of them: Objective No. 11 focuses on the need to create an integrated and coordinated and secure border control. This objective is well run by the Government's desire to help build capacity in countries along the migration routes towards Europe, so that their authorities are better equipped to deal with migration challenges on their borders. We have recently decided, in cooperation with Austria, to support Tunisia in precisely such cooperation in enforcing its own borders, which is why I also welcome the fact that the declaration also focuses on this area, because it is crucial that we do not first respond to migration challenges when they knock on our own door. It is also crucial that we in Europe and in the countries along migration routes manage irregular migration flows much earlier, closer to conflicts, closer to the countries of origin from which people migrate. We also need to do this in cooperation with the authorities of the countries concerned. The fact is that if we do not cooperate and help where it is needed, the problems of others will become far too easy and too fast our own. In addition, the migration declaration also focuses on strengthening broadcasts and combating trafficking in human beings, strengthening efforts in neighbourhoods, which are also some of our objectives in our ambition for a new asylum system. As Denmark already meets all 23 objectives of the Declaration, our contribution to the implementation of the Declaration will focus on dealing with irregular and dangerous migration outside Europe. At the same time, we should all recognise that the migrants arriving in Denmark, far too far, the vast majority of them come legally to the country and contribute to our prosperity. The vast majority come as employees or as students to Danish society. It is actually a fairly small minority who come here as asylum seekers at the moment. We already have a wide range of arrangements that allow legal entry to Denmark. The arrangements are adapted to the needs of the labour market, and this is also one of the objectives of the declaration. The implementation of the declaration is therefore primarily about bringing other countries up to the level at which Denmark is performing. Of course, there are parts of the declaration that the government would like to see formulated differently. We should not hide that either, and that is also why, in connection with the adoption, Denmark. the previous government, gave a so-called explanation of vote which clearly indicated the Danish interpretation of the text. It is also an explanation of vote that we in the Socialist Group supported before the elections. In this explanation Denmark emphasizes, among other things: the fundamental principle that Member States can distinguish between regular and irregular migration status, on the one hand, in the implementation of all parts of the declaration, and, on the other hand, in the practical policy of aliens and the access of foreigners to the welfare state. In the explanation of vote we also made it clear that the declaration does not oblige the Member States to increase legal immigration, because, as I said, we already have a large number of arrangements which we believe benefit Danish society and there is nothing in the declaration itself that should lead us to extend or change those arrangements. Finally, if I am to settle the accounts, we are looking at the fact that the UN Declaration provides us with opportunities for safe, orderly and legal migration, it is not legally binding, and it is a declaration that Denmark is pursuing, all 23 objectives, and we therefore see the declaration first and foremost as an opportunity to ensure a good dialogue with the countries along the migration routes and in the vicinity of Europe, and it is a dialogue that we need to be strengthened so much if we are ever to succeed in achieving an asylum system that is more humane, more logical and more politically and economically sustainable than it is at present. So we regard the declaration more as a framework for an international dialogue on migration. I do not believe that Europe's challenges of migration can be tackled without such dialogue, for example. I believe that Denmark should not withdraw from this declaration because it would be harmful to Denmark if we did so. That's our assessment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140752	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140757	Thank you. Seventy years ago, when Denmark acceded to the Refugee Convention, the Refugee Convention was completely uncontroversial. It was thought at the time that it followed almost one by one what was done in Denmark, and on the basis of World War II we had no problem at all in helping refugees in need. After all, the 70 years that have passed have shown that the Refugee Convention is now being used as a lever for a number of migrants moving through a number of safe countries from a completely different continent up here. That convention is still maintained, despite the fact that it has run out of time. However, both the current government and the previous government hold firmly to the conventions. When you are concerned about the Marrakesh Declaration, it is because it clearly describes migration, also from African countries, as a good thing, and because experience shows that when we tie up on these UN declarations, at some point it binds the Danish Parliament, Danish governments, to do something that is contrary to the attitude of the Danish people. Doesn't the Minister recognize that this could be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140912	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140913	I would like to acknowledge that it is amazing how little political debate it gave at the time when it joined, for example. The UN Convention on Refugees, in view of the real political importance it has had in the future. But I think there is the essential difference that the convention to which the honourable Member refers is legally binding, and this political declaration is not, and it must, after all, also affect where on the scale of concern one is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140939	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611140940	What has happened with the Refugee Convention over time is that it has become more and more binding so that it has moved from aid to refugees from our neighbouring countries or from European countries to an opportunity for migrants from North Africa and the Middle East to come to Europe and share the benefits that exist in Europe. In the same way one can rightly think or fear that this is a step in the wrong direction and not in the right direction. Denmark is always the doll. What is it that makes us need a Marrakesh Declaration to ensure that migration around Denmark is going on properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141020	After all, I would like to point out that although the questioner is right that the importance of the conventions we signed more than half a century ago has increased and that there has also been a dynamic case-law which has meant that it has suddenly had an impact on things which I had not just imagined and which I cannot imagine were the intentions when it was originally written, there is, after all, the essential difference that it is a document that can be legally enforced, and this pact cannot be enforced. It is more a framework for dialogue that we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141056	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141100	I have to say that I would like to ask a little bit of nerve if the Minister has read the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, because it is a manifesto of migration, that is, that is, that is what it is all about. I do not know if, with the permission of the President, because it is only in English, can I read just a small passage?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141119	Only if it's translated as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141122	Oh! Can I do that? Paragraph 13 states: "This Global Compact recognizes that safe, orderly and regular migration works for all when it takes place in a well-informed, planned and consensual manner. Migration should never be an act of desperation. When it is, we must cooperate to respond to the needs of migrants in situations of vulnerability, and address the specific challenges. It basically means that migration is something that needs to be done properly and that it is basically to everyone's benefit, and if it is not, it is about us working better together. Well, it's a completely different world than the real world on which this statement is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141206	I would like to acknowledge that I first read this statement when public debate started on it; I think it was there in the winter of 2018 when, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, I began to get calls from journalists who wanted to have an opinion on this statement, which I must admit I had not read and which I had never actually heard of either. But then I read it in English, because it wasn't actually translated into Danish at the time. I don't even know if it is now. I stumbled over some of the same wordings that the questioner is also sprinkling over. There are also several others, for example. how the state should deal with media that are critical of migration. There are plenty of wordings in it, as I also said in my speech, that I myself would probably have formulated differently. What I just think we have to do on the bottom line is: do we have an interest in many countries having a dialogue on migration and can this pact provide a framework for that dialogue? There's our conclusion: Yes. It may not be of great importance, but if it only has the meaning that we have a common starting point for, for example, a common one. to talk about broadcasts with some of the countries we would like to discuss with, then we have come a small step along the way. But I admit it's not a revolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141314	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141315	Can't the Minister see that this is a little bit funny? In other words, the Danish Government would like to appear to be really restrictive in terms of migration. We all recognise that, that is to say, it would like to look like that, but if you look at the European countries, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and the countries outside Europe, among other things. The United States, which is not part of this agreement, are all countries that are precisely characterised by being restrictive in terms of migration. Well, it's in two very different directions, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Can the Minister not see that this is not connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141354	I also have the impression that the Austrian Government and the Norwegian Government want to be restrictive in terms of migration, but what is probably the difference between Denmark and some of the Eastern European countries is that we have it is not certain that all Eastern European countries quite the same way have their hands on the hot plate, and that is why I think we are more in boat with Austria and Norway than we are with Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141431	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth. I'm sorry, I think that's a mistake). Okay, then we go ahead, and there's a brief remark from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141442	In other words, we were both in the Folketing, Minister, when this was discussed for the first time, and what I think is grotesque in this whole matter is that at a time when there is a migration towards Europe, and when there has been a migration towards Europe, and when we have seen the consequences of it, the government then and the Socialists decided to accept that it was a real decision to sign a declaration which prizes the blessings of immigration. I understand that there are other countries that would like to be involved in this, which do not have the problems we have here in Denmark and in Europe at all. In other words, the whole of immigration has radically changed Europe. And then you decide to sign such a declaration, and it may not be legally binding, but it is morally binding, because why else would you sign this document if it was not morally binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141555	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141556	Our conclusion is that if Denmark only starts to deal with migration when it knocks on our own door, for example. On the Danish-German border, we will never solve the fundamental injustices of the asylum system, where people cross many safe borders and, for some, are able to decide for themselves where they will seek asylum. It is a completely unsustainable system that requires trafficking in human beings; it means that young men are heavily over-represented among spontaneous asylum seekers. We need to have a new system in which we are not standing here with lots of rejected asylum seekers that we are not able to expel. And we need to build the new system together with some of the countries outside Europe. We need to engage in binding cooperation with them. After all, we have an ambition to move asylum procedures out of Europe. If we cannot even have a declaration with some countries, how could we ever have such binding asylum cooperation? That is why I see it as such that if we want international cooperation on migration, it starts with us sitting around the same table as Latin Americans, Africans, Asians, North Americans and just about having a framework around migration. This is the declaration, which is why we supported the previous government. We haven't regretted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141708	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141709	I think that by signing this declaration, the people of Denmark have been taken by peasants because they are morally praising something that they saw in other ways being critical of. In fact, you want to be good friends with a UN system where all of this has been poured down from a supranational system. I would say that what we had to do was get power back to the nation states, so we define our own refugee policy. And I agree with New Citizens that an asylum freeze would be a good place to start. But I just can't understand why you can sign a declaration and also approve and accept and acknowledge the declaration today that claims the blessings of immigration. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141757	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141758	Well, I don't think anyone's a farmer. I admit, in fact, that last year the process in the Folketing was not a 13-figure in relation to informing the Folketing or the public about what was going on. And I myself was a little surprised when I read the statement because I was called by journalists who asked for a comment on it. But after reading it and putting me into it and also listening to the arguments of the then government, we ended up in the Social Democratic Party saying: of course, Denmark should not withdraw from this declaration and step away from international cooperation to deal with migration. We must be in that cooperation as long as it is not legally binding. And that was one of the things that the then government went to Morocco and stressed: it is not legally binding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141839	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141842	Thank you, and this time I've gotten into it, and I'm sorry for the confusion before. After all, we saw quite a lot of countries, Austria, the United States and so on, who so jumped into the goal, if you can put it that way, and either chose not to vote in favour of the agreement or to vote directly against it. I have one such more clear question: if it was the case that we actually succeeded in obtaining a majority here in the Folketing in order to withdraw from the agreement, can we actually do so? Can one simply inform the United Nations that there is now a majority in Denmark against the Marrakesh Declaration and we really want to leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141919	I have to admit, I haven't really thought about that, and that's why I don't know. But I would like to start by saying that I am firmly assuming that, and if that is not the case, I will at least return to writing and rebuke myself. Because it would be strange if there were an international political declaration that could only be entered into and not out of. That would be completely untenable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141938	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611141939	Thank you. And as I come back to in my rapporteur's speech, there was also some scepticism across the VLAK government then, not least from Conservatives and parts of the Left. One of the concerns that has also been felt by the people is that such an agreement can develop in time to take the form of a convention, because it slowly becomes practical and therefore also legally binding. Can the Minister say a hundred per cent that this could be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142014	It is not legally binding now. It was not for the previous government, nor is it for the current government. If any other country, based on this declaration, wishes to develop a legally binding convention, then at any time the government in office will have to take a position on it, and then I would strongly recommend that the government make sure that there is a majority in the Folketing behind it. Because we do not always have the best experience of the world with what we have agreed to internationally. So just let those be my words anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142045	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142100	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that cross-border problems require cross-border cooperation, particularly in relation to massive problems of irregular migration from non-western countries. In Denmark, we cannot solve migration and refugee challenges entirely on our own. It is a massive cross-border problem that requires cooperation, where different countries jointly take responsibility for solving these problems. Good relations with other countries are crucial in our efforts to create a new and fairer asylum system, which, incidentally, we sometimes talk about here in Parliament. We believe, however, that it is good that the proposers have a healthy scepticism about the international agreements on migration in which Denmark is part of, because it must of course be the Folketing and the Danish people who decide how the immigration policy in Denmark is organised, not the UN. It is an unshakable principle; that is the way it should be. However, the UN Declaration on Migration is not a legally binding declaration. It does not impose any legal obligations on us, and it was also a crucial condition for the Social Democracy back in 2018 to support the former Blue Government in signing the Declaration. If we want to ensure that far fewer asylum seekers come to Denmark and Europe and that we thus gain more control over non-western immigration, we need to be part of international cooperation where we solve various cross-border problems across national borders. That is why we must continue to be part of the UN Declaration on Migration, and the Social Democracy cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142230	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142233	Thank you. I mean, now was Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund in the Chamber before when I asked the Minister a question and read out a small passage from the statement here in Article 13, right? It says that safe and orderly migration works for everyone when it takes place in a well-informed and planned consensus-based manner. And that's where I'm gonna ask, isn't it? Rasmus Stoklund's general view of how migration policy has been running in Denmark for the last 30-40 years that it actually works for everyone? Because that's what it says in the statement that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is in favour. It also says that we need to work together to respond to some of the needs of migrants in particular situations, but, funny enough, nothing about how the indigenous population, who are being brought into special situations because of migrants, is doing so. And that's where I'm gonna ask you if it's Mr. Cole. Rasmus Stoklund's approach to foreign policy, because that is not what I usually hear from Mr Stoklund. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142329	Well, I think, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the undersigned may put a little different meanings or emphasis on these wordings, because my view is that what just means that we should not have irregular migration. I actually assumed that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would agree with me. And that's what this is all about. After all, the way people move around the world must be in order, and it must also be if it comes to Denmark. In my optics, this is more a framework for dialogue with other countries on some of these challenges, and having a mouthpiece and having access and a connection with other countries is crucial, not least in the work of creating a new asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142409	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142412	Well, I don't understand that argument at all. Look how far this document is... it's crazy. Should this detail be the prerequisite for Denmark to have a dialogue with other countries on how we send, for example. illegal migrants home? Well, there are hundreds of paragraphs here, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, and no one clearly knows what they have actually agreed to. I can't understand how you can look, as if you're worried about immigration, and then just say yes to all of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142447	Well, I could understand that concern, sir. Morten Messerschmidt would have had if the consequence of our having agreed to this was to spot our foreign policy, but it is not. Denmark's immigration policy is being organized here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is what matters here. That is why I cannot turn myself up to those concerns, as this is a paper that is not legally binding on Denmark in any way, as has been confirmed by several bodies, both by the European Commission, but also by legal assessments from home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142521	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Vermund has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142523	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund points out in the same way as the Minister in the past that this is not a legally binding document. It's just a frame. Yet, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund and the Minister expect that those countries that are not normally doing the right thing in relation to migration are now going to take this very seriously. You can't help but think it's a little bit blue-eyed. Well, then, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen flew down to Marrakesh and signed this, I thought: He did, because he had the politics he had, and then he had a minister who said something else he was as he was. But when you, like the Social Democrats, highlight yourself as someone who actually understands the challenges we are facing and understands what commitments you have bound up with, and also understands that if we are to have a new asylum system, there is a risk, an opportunity, that we have to go alone, then it simply does not make sense that we are defending this crap.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142630	It might be a bit of a repeat of my previous answers. However, I think that if you have an ambition, as the Social Democratic Party has, to create a basic new asylum system, and we have talked about this so often in this Chamber, it is clear that you are quite dependent on having some open channels to other countries and having some places where you can talk to them and also send some signals to other countries that we do not believe that we can solve our migration challenges here alone in Denmark at the Danish-German border or the Swedish-Danish border. And that is why I think it makes very good sense for us to take part in some forums where we can then talk to other countries where we can establish links and where we can work together. We have previously discussed in this Chamber how some of the initiatives that have been launched recently in particular. Rwanda and Tunisia are good examples of how asylum and migration policies can be thought of in a new way, in which we can support some of the countries with which we can see some prospects in working together on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142741	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142742	After all, there is nothing but a majority in the Folketing to prevent us from pursuing the immigration policy, the asylum policy that we want in Denmark. So when you have tied up with a declaration like this, it has to be either because you think it has some sort of obligation for those who are in the declaration, and thus both for us and for the African countries, or it has to be because it is not worth the paper on which it is written. And so the signature is also meaningless. Well, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not that it is a madness to sign something that is said not to be binding on the one hand and, on the other hand, should it be binding on some countries that never do what they are supposed to do in these contexts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142827	No, I mean, it's putting too much into it. Because I think it is important to be able to meet in some international contexts too, where you do not always share interests with all the others who are there, but where you might find some cooperation points anyway, without signing up to a large group or always having a large group to lean on, but where it can then still be used as a platform to create contacts and a framework to discuss how some of these cross-border challenges can be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142903	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611142905	Well, if not the Danish Parliament and the government feel morally obligated by this, why should others? Well, I have to say that I do not actually understand the argument. On the one hand, it should provide better opportunities for returning refugees, that is the part that the government and also the previous government would like to advertise, namely that this agreement has been put in place. On the other hand, one praises the blessings of immigration and says that one should stimulate immigration. On the other hand, one is not obliged to do so, but the others are obliged to take their refugees and immigrants back. So, I simply do not understand the argument, and I would say that in relation to Europe, of which Denmark is a part, we have indeed experienced a true migration, and precisely in this time, the time of migration, we then decide to sign a Marrakesh agreement that praises the blessings of immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143020	The migration took place, as far as I remember, when the Danish People's Party was Parliament's second largest party and had a responsibility for the Blue Government, and the situation was not dealt with in any more impressive way. However, on the other hand, I recognise that it is a question of having an asylum system that is not linked and that basically it needs to be reformed. That's what's needed so we can solve these things. We have dealt with that. When the rapporteur says that we are running around advertising this, I would like to arrest that claim, because we are not doing it at all. I'm not thinking about this statement every day. This is a motion for a resolution tabled by some parties in the Folketing, and that is fine and we will discuss it. But if you choose to put all sorts of things into what I certainly do not put into it, you have to stand up for yourself. I see this as a forum where you can talk to other countries and perhaps find new solutions and areas of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143107	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143108	But I see the problem here: if you want to find a new asylum system, you should start by making asylum policy really Danish. For the 1951 Refugee Convention is an example of how we have lived under the convention regime, and it is precisely the convention regime that has created the situation we are facing today. So if you really want to do something about it and create a new asylum policy, you could start by stressing that it is national and that is to say, we decide who we let across our borders. And I'd like to have an asylum stop, I'd like to say hello.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143153	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143154	But now there is a mix of pears and bananas here, because this is not a convention we are talking about. We are talking about a declaration which is not legally binding and which serves as a forum for discussing some of these issues. I also regard it to a large extent as a diplomatic arena in which governments will hopefully be able to establish new links in order to help solve some of these problems. Some examples, I think, are good: sometimes they actually succeed, they are working with Tunisia and Rwanda, which were launched a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143231	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143247	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we continue to support the agreement we have reached between a number of European and African countries, in other words the Marrakesh Declaration. The Marrakesh Declaration contributes to better coordination and control in relation to efforts to stop irregular migratory flows within Africa and in Europe. We want the least possible migrants to come to Denmark. The Marrakesh Declaration is a non-binding agreement. The text itself emphasises that states themselves determine their immigration policy. The Declaration contains a number of objectives that benefit Denmark and which are good reasons why we signed it. The agreement states that countries are obliged to withdraw their own nationals in other words: take their rejected asylum seekers back to where they come from. Although it is not a binding text, it is a kind of start to a conversation that we would like to see become more binding. The declaration also puts pressure on those countries which are currently regarded as transit countries for migratory flows to Europe. These could be countries such as Niger and Chad, which will in future be obliged to protect their own borders. Although this is not a binding text, it is still an important conversation to get started. These two conditions are important and entirely in Denmark's interest. We in Denmark cannot do much on our own, but through agreements we can put pressure on those countries that are the key to solving part of the migrant challenge. We have something to do with the Marrakesh Declaration, even though the Marrakesh Declaration is a very small corner, because it is just a statement. These are small steps, but after all, steps in the right direction. However, we must not just sit back and think that the problem has been solved by this declaration; we must continue to work on within the European Union in terms of returning and getting asylum seekers rejected to return to their countries of origin. We will do everything, both internationally and nationally, to achieve the goal of fewer migrants coming to Denmark, as well as increasing the possibility of returning rejected asylum seekers. The Left cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143505	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143509	Yes, we are really sorry that we are not really connected to the Left in this matter. And I remember last year, when the Left was still in government, there was a bit of a civil war. It ended up being the Prime Minister; there was not really anyone else who wanted to sign into the history books in that way, and one can understand that. However, one of the main arguments was that it was considered that this document has no legal force. Well, that's where we've gotten a little smarter since then, among other things. In relation to the part relating to EU implementation, the EU has, of course, also acceded to this declaration. Here we have a note from the Commission's legal service which, after ten years in the European Parliament, I can say is regarded as some intermediate stage between the Pope and the Lord, so it is not just such indifferent people who say that this document actually has there I would just like to ask if, in the light of that correction, the Left could consider looking at this treaty differently than they did a year ago. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143610	Yes, we can. As I understand it, all such texts here may end up having what is called soft law interpretations, that is, even if they are not binding, courts begin to quote them and use them as a basis for making judgments that we do not believe are important. And that is why we made the declaration of vote that we made at the time when we declared that we would like to see ourselves as part of the Marrakesh Agreement It is important that we zealously follow this area, because we do not want countries other than Denmark to decide on our policy in this area. And, of course, if there is soft law interpretations of this area, we must respond to the national level. Morten Messerschmidt i.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143702	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143703	I am very pleased about that, and I think that there are many of us who should be glad that it is Mr. Mads Birded, who is on the platform for the Left today. Because it is clear that the wrestling we saw last year has probably not completely disappeared here, so I am very pleased with that commitment. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Mads Birded: Where does the limit go? I mean, how much UN interference do we want? Now I am sitting here with the Refugee Board's annual report in front of me, and there I can see that in the latest report there are references to the UN 164 times that is a nonsense, I would say. So how much will the Left accept before you can vote for this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143740	Well, I don't think it's about how much, but more about how this gets mixed up in a Danish context. After all, we have seen how conventions have changed nature and become some that we are challenged on and go to the limit of etc. If that happens in other areas, it is a challenge for us that we have to fight with everything we can, because it is Denmark that has to decide who comes in and out of Denmark, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143819	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143822	Thank you. When Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen was on his way to Marrakesh to sign this statement, there was a massive resistance. We were some of those who resisted massively, and we could feel that there were a lot of people, especially on social media, who, when they found out what was going to happen, were engaged. It was so a surprise to the Left, on Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, in his time, I must assume that the many worried Danes were accused of being robots, fake profiles. Many of us had notices deleted, were rude, both by the former Prime Minister, who was President of the Left, and also by the Foreign Minister. Today it is quite obvious that there are parties now two, perhaps even three; now we have to see the parliament, which is deeply concerned that this is a wrong direction for Denmark to go. Has the Left considered whether this squeezing of those who were critical at the time was wise and right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611143932	Have you ever thought about it? As I remember the debate, and I followed it in particular on social media, and now I don't always remember everything crystal clear, I didn't sit myself at any time thinking that it was the Russian intelligence service here, or who else was accused of leading the pen, but it was a number of people that I sometimes agreed with and sometimes partly agreed with, who were concerned here, and I took note of that myself. I did that as part of my work, because we were very careful about how in this accompanying document we marked what we understood by the Marrakesh Declaration, especially because it contains a lot that we consider to be something UN nonsense, which comes with when many countries gather and make a text and which we cannot see ourselves in. So we would like to make that clear. I do not think it is ever wise to accuse people who are not known to be Russian agents, including Mrs Pernille Vermund, of being so. It never brings a democratic conversation to a better place. I'm sorry if anyone from my party has done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144051	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144052	Thank you. It's a bit harsh to have to stand here with Mr. Knox. Mads Birded and discussing something that has happened in Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's time, for as mentioned earlier, the Left is a broad party, including in this area, but now it is Mr. Løkke Rasmussen's time. Mads Fuglede, rapporteur. On this occasion, I also think it might be desirable to know: was there any ulterior motive in the Left not to translate the Marrakesh Declaration into Danish? So, quite late in the process, the media realized that this does not exist in the Danish language, a document which has previously been declared to be a lot of paragraphs, which they had not made the effort to translate, so that the Danes could understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144136	In fact, rather early we realize that the fact that there are so few who are able to translate the word compact into correct Danish made many people think that it was something that was much more binding than it really was. So we talked internally about the fact that it was really a pity that the purpose, framework and influence of this declaration were made much more than any such rational and sober debate could hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144211	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144223	Thank you so much. It's really exciting with this historical outline of the work on the Marrakesh Declaration. Actually, I'd like to start somewhere else where I'm just trying to sketch out the proportions of this question we're working on, or this concern that is. The vast majority of the world's 272 million immigrants are legally resident where they are. It is a vast crowd of people looking for work in other countries, from nuclear physicists to strawberry pickers. According to an estimated report from the Pew Research Center in Los Angeles, there are between 3.9 million and 4.8 million people without a residence permit in the EU. And since the EU and the United States together house half of the world's migrants, a very rough estimate would be that overall, 10-15 million of the world's migrants are so-called irregular, which corresponds to between 3 and 5 per cent. of all the world's migrants and two thousand of the world's total population. It is the handling of this group of people that the UN global agreement on migration is about 5%. of all the migrants of the world. DF is concerned about whether the Global Migration Agreement or the Marrakesh Declaration is legally binding and that Denmark is losing control of foreign policy. That is not the case. The agreement is, as previously pointed out by others, a political agreement concluded between UN member states. It is based on existing legislation on human rights, which we are already bound by. But it does not increase new commitments compared to those that already exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144355	Excuse me, I have to interrupt once. You can talk softly out there in the sidewalk, but if you're going to have a louder discussion, it's going on out on the other side of the doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144408	It was both the government's own assessment back in December 2019 and the Commission's assessment in the internal note mentioned by DF in the comments. It is only if one is against Denmark being bound by international conventions on human rights that one can be concerned about the legal significance of the agreement for Denmark. The Danish People's Party is concerned about the fact that the agreement is celebrated as a victory for international cooperation. The Danish People's Party therefore does not believe that international phenomena such as migration should be resolved internationally. You'd like to ask what the alternative is. Should you close your eyes, build fences to the sky and put landmines in the water? For example, if we want to return asylum seekers and irregular migrants, we need agreements with the countries of origin concerned. The Migration Agreement provides precisely a framework for such cooperation. If you really want to deal with the problem of irregular migration, you need to have more on the palette than fences and armed border guards. The vast majority of migrants who travel across the Mediterranean have made a mature decision and are fully aware of the risks they take. They do it anyway because they see their situation as hopeless. Some may get asylum, some may not, but they do not necessarily know that themselves. They know they need to get away. Therefore, prevention must be considered all around so that people do not feel compelled to make a choice to migrate irregularly. It could, for example, be done. be job creation, development aid, etc. and protection from the monstrous atrocities that occur both on regular migrants, for example. (i) the provision of services in the Middle East, and irregular migrants in, for example: the detention centres in Libya. It could also be more opportunities to migrate legally, so that people have an alternative, better cooperation in combating smugglers and trafficking in human beings, etc. The Migration Agreement comes all the way around the challenges of migration. These are real solutions to real problems. Finally, now that we are on the subject, I would like to say that it is the intention that all the countries that subscribe to the agreement should translate it into a national action plan. We in the Radical Left would very much like that, and I should like to say hello to Andreas Steenberg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144617	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144621	I just want to know whether I understood the rapporteur correctly, namely that the rapporteur agrees with the Commission's legal service that the Marrakesh Treaty has legal binding effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144631	There are two issues we are discussing here, which have actually also been a little unclear to me, and it has been whether we are talking about the UN Migration Agreement or the Marrakesh Declaration, because the title says one thing, but the resolution itself is being dealt with differently. The Marrakesh Declaration itself is not, as far as I know, legally binding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144652	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144654	How, then, could the rapporteur's speech be understood as wanting the declaration to be legally binding? Because I heard the rapporteur talk about the Commission's opinion • Legal Opinion, as it says, in other words legal opinion. So does the Radical Left want the Marrakesh Declaration to have legal validity, or do they not want it, as the GCM was adopted when the Prime Minister was in Marrakesh in December 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144724	No, we are fully satisfied that this is a political agreement as long as it provides the framework for all the different types and the flexibility that may exist between countries, so that it gives rise to agreements that need to be made so that we can resolve this migration crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144741	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party and is Mr. Carl Valentin
ParlaMint-DK_20200611144749	Thank you. We have been here before and quite recently when we discussed the government's plans to limit immigration as a result of tensions at the border with Turkey, so I can be relatively brief. The asylum system is dysfunctional. It is based on spontaneous asylum, which results in unfair distribution, both in relation to which countries are dragged to relieve the world's hot spots, but also in relation to which refugees are being helped both how and when. What is missing in order for the entire refugee system to work? Help for the neighborhoods? Oh, no, no, no, A queue system? Yeah. But also solidarity. This requires that each of us not only address the issue of a new refugee policy with an interest in letting in as few as possible, but with the aim of maximizing total justice in the system. We must ensure that the most people are helped to the best possible extent, with the greatest possible respect for the stability of the recipient countries. If the countries of the world make refugee policy a race to the bottom, it will harm us all. International solidarity is the prerequisite for us to get back control of the asylum system and shape it into a whole that makes sense, instead of the morass that we have now. That is why the resolution we are debating today is antithesis of solidarity. It aims to write Denmark out of one of the few remaining lifelines in the international in cooperation on a new asylum system. The Marrakesh agreement lacks a firm framework and sanctions, yes, but is still better than a total absence of willingness to compromise between countries. Should one be in doubt about the lack of international solidarity in the proposal, one can only observe the fact that the proposal quotes Poland as an example to be followed by a country which has turned its back on its international obligations in the area of refugees and which, despite its status as an EU country, does not meet minimum standards of refugee reception in the Union. In October, author Jonas Eika said that Denmark is a racist country, among others. with reference to the Danish asylum policy. I think this is nonsense, because despite the great amount of talk that has been going on by successive governments in recent decades, Denmark is fortunately still a country that takes legal certainty and international obligations seriously; a country that measured both the number we accept and the amount of aid we provide is the lengths ahead of other countries that are often regarded as leaders in the field, such as Canada. That is why, given our size, we continue to take responsibility for refugees, no matter how much various ministers have talked about austerity. That's why Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also agrees to the Marrakesh agreement and therefore the current government honours it because, after all, we still live in a country that takes the international community seriously and is aware of the reality that Denmark cannot reach anywhere alone. And regardless of my other disagreements with the two prime ministers' parties in this country, I would like to sign that, after all, they are often still on our side and not on the side of the Danish People's Party on issues such as these. With these words, I must say that the Socialist People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145105	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so we move on to the next rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145117	Thank you. As you know, the Marrakesh Declaration is a non-legally binding document which contains some very sensible considerations as to how states in a modern world should deal with migration. The overall objective of the declaration is to ensure that migration is conducted in a secure, overall and regular manner. In order to achieve this objective, Article 16 of the Declaration lists some extremely appropriate measures. The emphasis is on minimising the factors that force people to leave their country of origin. The emphasis is on proper information for and about migrants. You have to work towards the least possible loss of life during migration. Trafficking and trafficking in human beings must be combated. Discrimination must be eliminated. The borders must be managed in a safe and well-coordinated manner. Migrants without a residence permit must be returned to the country from which they have fled in a safe and dignified manner and helped to be reintegrated there. All these are objectives which should be able to bring together a broad majority, even here in the Folketing. And that is probably why the then government under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was well known internationally for his very hard line in foreign policy, could sensibly endorse this statement in 2018. On the extreme right there were then parties that did not want to join. We can read in the comments that the declaration is described as a recognition of human rights and workers' rights, and such rights are opposed by the proposers, one must understand. In the Enhedslisten we have it just the other way around. We really like workers' rights and human rights. The more we can guarantee those rights, the better it is, we think. The proposers also stress that several of Denmark's close allies and collaborators refused to sign the agreement, and mention is made here among others. The United States, the Czech Republic, Poland and Israel. Fortunately, I would say, the governments of those countries are not the ones with which we cooperate most when it comes to human rights and workers' rights. If we did, it would be really bad. The proposers fail to mention Viktor Orbán and Hungary, which was the fifth country to vote against in the vote at the UN General Assembly. I do not know why they fail to do so, but Viktor Orbán is known for suppressing the opposition in Hungary by undemocratic means, and I think it would be sad if Denmark joined that company. In the Enhedslisten we would like Denmark to assume a more binding responsibility for ensuring safer and orderly migration at global level. But working in the United Nations is often a matter of finding the lowest common denominator among a large majority of countries, and it often turns into binding declarations of intent like this Marrakesh Declaration. It is a step in the right direction, as we see it, and a recognition of some very important principles, and that is clearly better than nothing. We cannot in any way support the withdrawal from this declaration, but what we can support is that we are making more binding binding agreements at global level, for example. that countries such as Denmark should be obliged to take more quota refugees than we are taking today. I think that would certainly suit us, and I would like to be in the company of those countries which actually lift their international responsibilities and take on quota refugees rather than be in the company of those countries such as Greece. suppresses the opposition by undemocratic means.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145518	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Rosa Lund We cannot support the proposal, I might just remember to say).
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145522	No, it was clear, and I shall not refer to the movements around the world in more exotic parts of the globe where Enhedslisten's members commit themselves. It could be South America, or it could be anywhere else. Then we could talk about oppression there. No, what I really wanted to ask you is that, since Mrs Rosa Lund is very open and wholeheartedly advocating that this declaration should ensure a variety of professional matters, I assume that this means that Mrs Rosa Lund and her party would like this whole declaration to have legal validity, just as the Commission's legal service has also proposed in relation to the parts that are relevant to the European Union. That is just what I want to hear: is it the position of the Enhedslisten that that is what you want to fight for, that is to say that this declaration will have legal validity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145610	Our position is that this document is not suitable to be a legally binding document, but it is quite understood that we would like to make binding agreements in this area, and we would also like to make binding agreements in that community. I would say that we are part of the European Union. We would also like to make binding agreements on this point that workers' rights are not being exploited. So the document we are discussing in this resolution is not suitable to be legally binding, I believe. However, we would very much like to be involved in making legally binding and binding international agreements on refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145643	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145644	Mrs Rosa Lund must now clarify: what is it that Mrs Rosa Lund cannot sign here? Well, this statement might as well be printed from Enhedslisten's website. So what would it be for passengers? So, you want to hit hard on media that don't bring immigrant-friendly messages, and immigration is a good idea. I mean, it's such a euphoric declaration of joy over migration, so what is it that Mrs Lund doesn't like about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145714	As I said, there's nothing we don't like about it. I understand the question as if this should be a legally binding document. The document is not really suitable for that. And I would also like to call on you to do so. Morten Messerschmidt to look a little more at Enhedslisten's website, compared to what it says there about migration. Because that's certainly not what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145737	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611145748	Thank you, President. I have to say that it is a rather strange feeling to stand here on the platform today and talk about the Marrakesh agreement, because it really was something that shared the waters back in 2018. It was also something that divided the waters of the VLAK government. Naser Khader of Conservatives said then in 2018, and now I quote him: "Personally I am sceptical about the Pact and its consequences, and the Conservative Parliamentary Group shares my scepticism. It was not because Conservatives at the time could not see that there were some really positive parts and some good intentions in the Marrakesh agreement, but there were also some parts that were not so positive. That was among other things. the part about restricting the freedom of the media to inform the public, the part which I think at least mixes the rights of migrants with the rights of refugees, and then, of course, what has also been mentioned today, that although this agreement is not legally binding as a starting point, there is a risk that activists' courts will quietly make this agreement applicable in time. So there was also scepticism in parties other than Conservatives. From the left, neither the then Foreign Minister, Inger Løjberg, nor the then Minister for Development, Ulla Tørnæs, went down to Marrakesh to sign. The Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself did. And, of course, the Prime Minister said, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Social Democratic Party today does, that the UN Charter is not legally binding and that it will not change much or anything in Danish foreign policy. But the scepticism I mentioned earlier remained in parts of the Folketing. Conservatives were then part of the VLAK government, and Conservatives agreed to the agreement with the scepticism that I just quoted Naser Khader to come along with. However, as I have said, we know which Social Democrats have not yet learned in this instance that when you are a three-level government with different views, you sometimes agree to an agreement that you might not have agreed to if you stood alone as a one-party government. Conservatives at that time were very, very pleased with the explanation of vote, which took a number of reservations. But still away we saw a number of like-minded countries jumping into the goal and not signing the agreement: the United States, Australia, Switzerland, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Bulgaria. Our conservative view today is that, on the one hand, of course, we support international cooperation and, on the other hand, we support the UN • we have to combat migration; we have to combat the poverty that helps create migration; but on the other hand, on the basis of a precautionary principle, this Marrakesh agreement has some dubious parts which mean that today we Conservatives do not support participation in the agreement. We should have put ourselves on the table or we should have put ourselves on the table, I would say in more detail, as for example. Austria, which had a sensible approach to this. Of course, I say this with a reservation, and I also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs before whether one can withdraw from such an agreement at all and whether one can rewind it. I don't know if you can. However, if it is possible to stand in the same position as a country such as the United Kingdom. Austria is what we want to do. In addition, we might have formulated the comments in the proposal differently, but we support the proposal as it stands with the overall intention of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150129	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150143	Thank you for the floor. It is an interesting debate when you come from outside and have seen all this from outside the Danish Parliament, and thus have stood out in what is going on outside Christiansborg in the winter of 2018 and had a feeling that the bourgeois parties who sat in power at the time this was joined almost one to one consisted of people who agreed. There was just sir. Naser Khader, who spoke, but otherwise it was a united bourgeois bloc that was in favour of the Marrakesh Declaration. There was also some pip from DF back then, but no one was so unhappy that one stepped out of a government or was ready to overthrow a government on this background. Now it turns out that the division that was evident in the Left, since it ended up being Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who left, was also there in the other bourgeois parties. And you can't help but get a feeling, after today's debate, that this is really Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's project, more than it is a bourgeois project. In that case, the current Social Democratic Government supports a Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen project, which is of course interesting in itself. I would like to begin by thanking DF and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to present this motion for a resolution, both because it is important to remind the Danes that even under bourgeois governments irresponsible foreign policy has been pursued and because it gives me the opportunity here today to express my regret against Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that DF as a parliamentary basis for the former Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen government accepted that Denmark acceded to the Marrakesh Declaration. I understand that you were critical, but you accepted it, and you shouldn't have done that. You should have put your foot down and made it clear that there was a line in the sand that could not be crossed. The United States said 'no', Israel said 'no' to a large number of countries which are sensible and which are close to Denmark's security policy, said 'no'. Denmark should have done the same. Why? Exactly for the reasons Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and DF explain in their comments on the motion for a resolution. The Marrakesh Declaration will affect foreign policy in the future if we in the Folketing do not seek to win back Danish self-determination. I very much hope that the majority of the population will support this before it is too late before we find ourselves in a situation like that of the refugee convention, which was signed 70 years ago, because it was thought that we had no difficulty in joining it, because it was almost one of those who did at that time, and since then it has committed us to an asylum policy, which a very large majority of the parliament over to the SF, we hear today, is saying that it is dysfunctional. Migration from Africa to Europe will grow with the declaration as a backdrop. This is the path that the political winds are blowing in the European Union, where Parliament and the Commission still pay tribute to multiculturalism, immigration from the Middle East and the consumption of illegal migrants, which will be provided with refugee status. It is not a course that is majority in favour of in the Danish Parliament, at least not if we are to take the words of the government ministers at face value. In the opinion of the EU Foreign Service on the legal scope of the Marrakesh Declaration, it should be obvious to all political parties who want foreign policy to be conducted in the Folketing and nowhere else that Denmark should not be a signatory to the Declaration. In addition, as I and the new citizens want, if we want to solve the problems of immigration policy from the bottom up, then the reading of the Marrakesh Declaration will also make it clear that the document is moving in exactly the opposite direction. The declaration will exacerbate the problems and not solve them. In those words, of course, New Citizen backs the motion for a resolution that we are pleased that DF has tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150559	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150607	We also support the motion for a resolution B 177, in other words the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. After all, it has been exciting to hear the rapporteur's speeches that have been made because they illustrate something that was already clear in December 2018, namely that there were quite extensive discussions in the governing parties' parliamentary groups before the Marrakesh Declaration was adopted. It was quite clear that when the minister responsible did not want to go to Marrakesh and the Prime Minister had to leave instead, it was because there was no agreement. Sir. Marcus Knuth has explained to Mr. Naser Khader's speech and how there was also disagreement in the Conservative Parliamentary Group, and we certainly also had some long discussions in the Liberal Alliance about the declaration. When we did not make any more of the disagreement then, it was because this explanation of vote, which has been raised several times, played a significant role. It was the assurance that an explanation of vote would be given and that the explanation of vote would state that the Marrakesh Declaration does not infringe Danish legislation. With this in mind, we ended up accepting that Denmark signed the Marrakesh Declaration. What has happened in the intervening years is that judicial activism has become an issue which we have become very aware of, in other words, the risk that apparently innocent documents will be involved in the dynamic interpretations of various international courts and will thus have a different meaning, because these courts will actually act as a kind of legislative authority which changes the content of the legislation. This has happened with the European Convention on Human Rights, with various EU treaties, and this has happened with the Convention on Refugees. It is simply not acceptable in the long run that we really should have unelected politicians change our legislation. So the risk that the Marrakesh Declaration may, if I may say so, fall into the hands of an activist court, we consider to be a very realistic risk, and that is why we support the proposals of the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150902	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so now is the time to put the rapporteur for the proposers on the platform. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611150913	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for an interesting review of how reality can look very different, depending on which chair you sit in. It's almost a couple of years since Mr. Prime Minister of that time. Lars Løkke Rasmussen went to Morocco for, it is probably not too much to say on his own behalf to join Denmark in this declaration. He probably had constitutional solid ground under his feet, as § 19 says that foreign policy belongs to the government, and therefore the Folketing could thus think what they would mean, including several members of the government, who could think what they wanted. What we can certainly say today is that we know quite a lot more. We are quite much wiser today about what this declaration contains, and it is all in the diametrically opposite direction of what the then government told the Folketing. We now know that a number of countries have chosen to be outside the Union, funny enough countries, all of which are known to pursue strict immigration policies. These are countries such as Israel, the Czech Republic, the United States, Poland, Hungary and several others. Funny enough, the countries that want a liberal and lax immigration policy have all joined because they think it is a great idea with a common UN document that regulates migration. We can already see how this is, after all, not a static static document, but something that will develop gradually and continuously. Among other things: on 17, 18 December 2019 we had a parliamentary meeting in Switzerland where a series of NGOs, businesses and others met to discuss how this statement could now be translated into reality. According to a reply I received on 7 January 2020 from the Minister for Development, we can see who took part: it is 90 ministers, it is 80 international organisations, 200 civil society organisations, 70 refugees, where they come from, I do not know • OECD, the World Bank, Members of the European Parliament and a number of others. What were they discussing? Yes, according to the development minister's answer here it was responsibility and burden sharing, education and employment. This is usually something that we regard as a national matter, that is, responsibility and burden-sharing. This is one of the things that the European Union has attracted a great deal of attention and resistance because it wants to start distributing migrants between countries. Just before we heard that it did not have any significance for the countries' internal policies, but why do hundreds, indeed thousands, gather together in Switzerland to discuss responsibility and burden sharing, education and employment? That's why you just have to say that Mr. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Mads Birded is quite right in saying that there is nothing in the UN that is static and that stands still; it is all dynamic and is constantly evolving in a certain direction, namely in a political direction. In the Refugee Board's latest annual report, it is not because the UN is completely absent. If I may mention the high point, we just have the register here on page 7, item. 4.2.3: Cases referred to UN committees. On page 10, p. 6.11.3.1.1: United Nations Torture Committee General Comment no. 4. Page 11, p. 8.9: Exclusion of foreigners on UN and EU sanctions lists. On page 12, Chapter 11.2: UN Human Rights Bodies. 11.3: United Nations Committee on Torture. 11.3.1: United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. 11.3.2: Follow-up to a previous opinion of the United Nations Committee on Torture in a case against Denmark. 11.3.1: Opinion of the United Nations Torture Committee in 2018 in cases against Denmark. 11.4: UN Human Rights Committee. 11.4.1: United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. 11.4.2: Opinion of the UN Human Rights Committee in 2018 in cases against Denmark. 11.5: UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. 1.5.1: United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. 11.5.2: United Nations Women's Committee's opinions in 2018 in cases against Denmark. 11.6: United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. 11.6.1: United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. 6.6.2: United Nations Children's Committee's opinions in 2018 in cases against Denmark. Anyone who claims that the UN does not play a role in Danish foreign policy must either be naive or a liar! Since the last time, then, we have heard news from Brussels, not some obscure official body, but the highest legal service at all, the Commission's legal service, which says the diametrically opposite of what we heard from the previous government, namely that this document has legal significance in relation to EU law. That is what the government is trying to make it seem as if it does not play a major role, but anyone, whatever one has been a parliamentarian, a minister or has worked with the EU system, knows that if anyone is the ultimate interpreter just before the Court of Justice of the European Union, then it is the Commission's legal service, and that is why it should get everyone who deals with this area to worry just a little bit when that particular entity comes to the conclusion that this is legally valid. Because what exactly is the statement saying? Yeah, in point. 8 I will not quote, because again, we have not got it in Danish, because then I think you will cut off the worst criticism, but at least we have had a vision of legend, the general approach is that migration is a positive thing, it is something about people moving across borders, they are travelling, they are living, they are working, and it is all going on quite well. According to section 4.4. However, 10 things are not going quite well, because there is a need for any negative perception of migration to be severely reduced. It is strange that the two things can be in the same document, because if the whole thing is so smooth and fantastic about migration, why is there a need to crack down on negative perceptions of migrants? But, of course, the United Nations can do that. Then there is the whole focus on what to do about the problems. You could imagine talking about the problems that maybe Danes or other Europeans are experiencing as a result of this migration, but no, it is not about dealing with either prayer calls or scarves or any other form of Islamist propaganda, it is of course about the needs of migrants. You can read about this in section 4.4. 13. Moving on to item. 21, you will be able to see quite specific indications of what you want. You want legal migration routes. It is completely in contrast to what several floromvundendents have said here from the platform, namely that everything will still be the competence of the Folketing. Why on earth should a document like this talk about legalising migration routes if it is translated into national parliaments anyway? For then there should be just a blossoming call for it to be dealt with by national parliaments or governments, but that is precisely not the case. There is a detailed explanation of how to promote migration. It is, of course, basically about one thing, namely that this is a manifesto of migration, and that is why it is to blind people when they claim that it has no legal value. That is to blind people when they say that it will not affect our immigration legislation, because it is already important what the UN is doing, what this tirade-long listing of UN acts in the Refugee Board's annual report testifies to, and that is why I have to say that both the former and the present government have put the Danes in the eye, because this document can be a disaster not only for Denmark but for the whole of Europe, and that is why we must, of course, get out of it. It may well be that Mrs Pernille Vermund is right to say that we should have overturned the previous government; I should not reject that at all, but what may just be the problem is that, in this way, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund's solution, every time there is a disagreement with the government, and there may be limits to how many times one can go around and overturn the same government, and that is the challenge that we have at least run into. How, on the one hand, can we tighten the immigration policy 100, 150, 200 times if, on the other hand, we keep going and overturning the government every time there is something we disagree with? But if Mrs Pernille Vermund has a solution to that problem, we would be happy to hear about it. Basically, we want out of this document, we think it is to the detriment of Denmark, we think it is to the promotion of migration, and those things are completely incompatible with the Danish People's Party's policy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611151744	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611151746	Thank you. What we proposed in the winter of 2018 was that the DF had said to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who had the power of government at the time, had to either make a referendum on the Marrakesh Declaration or issue parliamentary elections and make it clear to the Danes where he and other parties stood during that period. After all, we were so close to a parliamentary election that we thought it was quite timely to say: let us now either have a referendum on this, we know that the people are in one place in relation to migration, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was obviously somewhere else or say to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that he must now print elections; it is still so close. Then the people could use the election campaign to discuss this, and then each party could be allowed to say where they stood. That would also have led to what is being revealed today, namely that the Conservative People's Party and LA were opposed, in the same way as parts of the Left were.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611151852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611151852-2	That sounds great, too. In other words, as I just remember, I think a referendum on this treaty would be contrary to Article 42 (2) of the Constitution. 6; I do not know the whole constitution by heart, but I think it is, because there are exceptions to the referenda that can be held, and there I think that Article 19 is referred to, so that is at least in relation to referendums. Then there's the question of holding a parliamentary election at that time. I think that would have been a really good idea. What can be said is that the Danish People's Party and probably also Mrs Pernille Vermund's persistent pressure on Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen did it, wasn't he? Lars Løkke Rasmussen simply chose to say that now he would not listen at all to the immigrant parties anymore, and he tried to create a government with the Social Democracy. So that is what came out of the strategy that Mrs Pernille Vermund had. However, by the way, I understood that by 2015 Mrs Pernille Vermund would have overturned the government, that is, when we had the challenges of migrants on motorways. So it can be said that had it already been done then, Mrs Mette Frederiksen had been Prime Minister for a number of years now, and then we would not have been in that situation; then it would have been the red majority that had got the migration pact through here. But it is revisionism to sit and philosophize history.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152000	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152002	As I recall what took place this summer in the Left, the proposal for a SV government was part of the reason why it is no longer Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, chairman of the Left, but another. So if it's DF's pressure and New Citizen's pressure on Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who has pushed Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the claws of a red party and thus has ensured that he can no longer go to Marrakesh or anywhere else and sign this type of statement, then we have done a little good and constructive together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152034	Now Mrs Pernille Vermund and I have not been to Christiansborg for very many years, so we have been elected on the same day, but it is not immediately my opinion that the current President of the Left is on the, what can be said, immigrant-critical side of his party. On the contrary, I recall that he resigned from the Left and entered the New Alliance because he was upset about the influence of the Danish People's Party on the Left. Well, there are others in the Chamber who can of course better explain where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen stands. But if Mrs Pernille Vermund thinks that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, as chairman of the Left, is her merit, I shall not take that pleasure away from her.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152114	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152129	The debate is open, and the first one to be heard is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152150	Thank you for the floor. I understand that it has caused awareness and media coverage that a mosque in western Aarhus has called for Islamic prayer via speakers from a sports pitch, a football field in the Gellerup Park during Ramadan. In Denmark, it is the case that one can freely cultivate one's beliefs, just as in normal circumstances one means where the country is not shut down due to a health crisis... can gather to cultivate one's faith in a way consistent with one's beliefs as long as it does not conflict with public order. And, of course, the government has no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion. However, there should be no doubt that the kind of prayer call we saw in the Gellerup Park is, in our view, presumptuous towards the citizens who live nearby. And so I do not think it is fair for people to practice their religion in this way. However, we do not believe that a single case that took place in an exceptional situation, a crisis situation, is enough to impose a general ban. However, I do not wish to deny that intervention may at some point be necessary if more and more examples are given. Fortunately, we are not there yet, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Let me also make a few more general observations. There is no doubt that legislation can be an effective and important tool, but we politicians also have a responsibility not always to resort to law and paragraphs as a solution to any challenge. We have intervened with legislation in several contexts. One could mention the burka ban or the agreements aimed at countering parallel societies. These agreements included: the possibility of having a better housing mix in the most vulnerable residential areas, including the Gellerup Park, and the introduction of compulsory learning for 1-year-olds in vulnerable residential areas, i.e. an offer to enter the crèche, and a better distribution of children in the day institutions and the introduction of a mandatory language test in the 0th class. Here we saw some more general issues where there was a need to legislate, so we saw among other things. can ensure better Danish knowledge and thus better integration. However, I do not think that with this example we can argue, on the basis of a single call for prayer from a sports area, that this is a general problem of an extent requiring the Folketing to legislate, at least not yet. I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, as the authors of the motion say, the teachings expressed by a Muslim prayer do not, in general, run counter to morality. I always like to have a discussion about religion in public space and also about parallel societies. I think it is clear to anyone who has followed the public debate in Denmark in recent years that that discussion is far from complete. We want, for example. to prevent women from being held in religious marriages against their will; to prevent women who want to be part of Denmark but who are prevented from doing so by their families and associations. And that is why we have also proposed and will put forward legislative proposals to ban religious weddings of minors and tighten up the penalties for those who maintain someone in marriage against their will. In addition, a strong integration effort is essential for all of this to succeed, and here we have a particular ambition to bring more women into the labour market. Too many children grow up without seeing Mom go to work in the morning. Finally, I would like to stress and reiterate that Denmark must not, of course, be a country in which Islamic prayer is called from minarets distributed throughout the country. I think most of us can agree on that too. It should not be the case that when you go down to Føtex on a Friday afternoon, you are suddenly interrupted by a prayer call. And if there are any more examples of this kind of prayer call, we are perfectly prepared to take the debate again, also to discuss whether there is a need to take legislative action, but we do not believe that we are yet there, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152545	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152548	Thank you, Minister. We Conservatives have tabled an amendment proposing that we change the wording of a ban on Muslim prayer calls to a ban on loudspeaker calls, because in this way we do not fall into problems with the constitution, religious freedom, etc. Will the government support our amendments? And that is quite an important question, because if the government is actively going in and blocking an amendment which changes the wording of this proposal from something I think is unconstitutional to something that is suddenly not unconstitutional, then I will see it as a rather drastic step. So can the Minister say whether or not we support our amendments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152637	In any case, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and we will take a position on the specific amendment before we hit the committee meeting where the report is to be submitted. I do not dare to say what law will actually be in relation to that amendment, but it is clear that we only think it positive if the Conservatives intend to continue this discussion in the context of the fact that it should also be able to operate within the rules of the Constitution on religious freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152709	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152710	Thank you. I welcome the positive intention. I would then like to move on to another question: can the Minister not see how hollow it sounds that they say that just because there has only been prayer calls once in Denmark, it is a lone swallow and something you don't really think is a problem? On the other side of the Sound, in Sweden, there is already a municipality, the municipality of Väksjö, where Swedish citizens must listen every Friday to loudspeaker shouts in Arabic in addition to the Swedish roofs. Well, this is a real problem, and it is something that is getting closer and closer to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152746	The questioner gave me an article on the Swedish town of Väksjö the other day, and if what is in that article is correct, then I fully acknowledge that they have a challenge in the Swedish municipality. I just need to see a problem of the same magnitude in Denmark. However, I would like to add one thing to the questioner, namely that this discussion has gone from being a rather theoretical discussion, as I think it was for, let us just say a few months ago, and to, after the events that have taken place in Gellerup, to be a slightly more relevant discussion to take, and I have also considered with myself how far we are, but we do not think that we are yet where there is any reason to resort to legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152826	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152833	Thank you. The Minister says that if there are more cases, there is no refusal to legislate in this area. At the end of April, the Danish Islamic Religion wrote to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, to the church minister and to a number of mayors that they would like to be allowed to make electrically reinforced prayer calls. Danish Islamic Religion has congregations in Copenhagen, in Brøndby, Helsingør, in Kokkedal, in Vejle and in Aarhus, i.e. in a number of large Danish cities, 6 pcs. It is not a single situation like that of Aarhus; it is a large religion that has six congregations. Does the Minister really think that it is a single swallow when a prayer call has been carried out and when prayer calls have been requested from so many congregations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611152932	It is true that both the church minister and I received a letter in which exactly the organization asked for permission to make Islamic prayer calls. We wrote back that we couldn't give that permission we couldn't give a rejection either. Because there is absolutely no authority for ministers to grant such permissions. And that may also be why we have the discussion here. Islamic prayer calls are not regulated in Danish law. We all know that it is perfectly legal when the churches ring the bells, but there is nowhere in the law whether to shout to prayer from a minaret. And it may well be that we come to a place where we have to deal with such things in the Assembly. I just think that a single example in a coronatid from Gellerup is not enough for us to make a general rule. I appeal to all the many sensible Muslims who are in this country who do not need to be called to prayer also to ensure that their religion is practiced in a way that is not presumptuous to the surroundings. I actually have a hope that this can be done by ordinary appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153038	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153039	I think the Minister knows that I would regard it as quite naive to imagine that inhabiting Muslims would not try to push Islam into our society, all the time we already live with halal-slaughter food in our day care institutions and in our hospitals. We live with gender-separated swimming lessons. We live with public servants wearing Islamic scarves when they are at work. We live by the fact that in a number of areas Islam has pushed its way into our society. So, of course, it comes here too. Had we been in a situation where there were few and a decreasing number of Muslims in our society, I could understand that one could be optimistic. But this, I must say, is hard to be anything but puzzled by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153130	Perhaps my optimism is based on the fact that after all there have been mosques in Denmark for many years, and they have worked without prayer calls for very, very many years. More naive, of course, is not to think that it can continue. However, I have noticed that there are people for whom Islam is not only a religion, but also a political conviction to gain ground in the public debate, and prayer calls may be a very concrete step. If we see mosques, for example... I think it is obvious to all of us that we need to intervene. I would just like to appeal that we do not resort to paragraphs every time there is a problem in society that has appeared once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153209	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153212	In the Danish People's Party we want to ban any Muslim call to prayer, including those that are not electrically reinforced. But I think it is positive to hear that in the long term the Minister wants to ban it here, at least if, in the Minister's view, it becomes a problem. But I just do not think that is good enough, because there could be people sitting in the debate today who could say: well, that might mean that nothing is really going to happen; we can try out the limits. Therefore, I think it would be better to send out the clear signal now that this will never ever be something that you just do in Denmark, so that we like to warn and make it clear to all Muslims that this is not going to happen; live with it. Why does the Minister not think that is what we should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153311	As I also said in my speech, we will soon come up with a bill to criminalise religious marriages of minors. In this context, I have also been asked whether religious weddings of minors are taking place at all. Yeah, there is, or we wouldn't be making the bill. It may not be many, but it happens. However, if we put forward a bill against Islamic prayer, I also think that as a government one has a responsibility to point out that it actually exists in reality as more than one case in an extraordinary situation where we lived in coronaland and where the mosques were closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153352	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153353	I think that in this way the Minister misses a chance to send a very, very important signal that Islam can never ever become the dominant or leading ideology in parts of Danish society or throughout Danish society. It is the Danish culture that is the leading and dominant. That's why we're calling the church bells, and they're allowed to make noise to a certain limit. After all, there's also rules on how much they can noisy but the same can just never be the case with Islamic prayer calls. And in fact, in my opinion, we owe this signal to the Muslims who live here. I think that is a failure. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153431	I do not agree with the questioner that we are failing. But what I agree with the questioner is that there is a difference between church bells and prayer calls, because church bells are part of our cultural history. In this sense, I think it is quite reasonable that they are part of the public space. On the other hand, I will not regard prayer as something that belongs in a classical Danish culture, and it is therefore not something that belongs in Danish society. I just think that it has to exist in reality before we start to legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153501	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153505	I am surprised that the Minister uses the same expression he used this morning in the consultation, namely that this might be a lone swallow in the coronatide. If we look beyond the continent of Europe, it is, if necessary, a continent occupied by swallows. There have been quite a number of occasions in which this has been regulated. As I understand it, these regulations or prohibitions have been made both in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Great Britain, Austria and so on, and it is therefore surprising that the Minister insists that the advance of Islam must be even stronger before he wants to intervene. In other words, how many times does prayer call take place before the Minister, like he has had enough vision of legend, so that action is needed here too if we are not to give in to Islam's advance in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153600	Now I didn't just catch all the countries that seem to have legal regulation in this area, but I could, among other things. I hear that it was Britain where I also see it as having greater integration challenges than we ourselves have. If we end up in a situation where we are called to prayer, we will naturally participate in a discussion about whether there are opportunities, for example. to discuss the Order, which is, of course, about people behaving in a way that does not disturb public order in Danish society. I think that is a perfectly reasonable discussion. I also think it is only fair that, as Members of Parliament, we point to real and existing problems and are able to formulate and describe them and demonstrate that they exist in reality before we resort to legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153647	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153648	I have to say that I cannot understand why the Minister cannot understand that what is happening in Gellerup is a real and existing problem, of which prayer calls are just part. This morning the minister told a very touching story about how his grandmother had got an apartment in Gellerup, when Danes lived mainly there, and that was the greatest happiness in her life. I do not think there are many who would consider it a happiness in their lives to be assigned an apartment in Gellerup today. This simply underlines that what we are facing is an all-inclusive problem with Islam, at least in certain residential areas, and there is just one more step towards something worse. That is why it would be expected that the Minister would intervene before it got even worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153730	This prayer call has unfortunately been written into a whole story about the Gellerup Park this spring, because there were also some young people who drove around and hung out of the windows, there was prayer in a parking lot in violation of the convention ban, and there have recently been stone throws and other things against the police, including serious situations. That is why it tells us something about a residential area that needs to implement the plans that have been put in place for the area, which is about changing the housing composition and also changing the architecture and business structure of the area. I am a great supporter of the implementation of these plans by Aarhus Municipality and Brabrand Housing Association. I totally understand that prayer call was a problem. What I am just questioning is whether it is such a big and general problem that we, as legislators, must step in because it has appeared once in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153820	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, and that is how the rapporteur begins. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611153833	Thank you. A few years ago, no one could have imagined that we would have to discuss whether to have prayer calls in Denmark, but on April 24 this year Fredens Mosque put up great speakers on a football field right in the middle of Gellerup. Here the citizens of the local area were forced to listen to a loud Muslim prayer call. The séance with this prayer call was also recorded on video so that the whole of Denmark could subsequently see this demonstration of power. That event has, of course, updated the discussion about prayer calls, and our view is clear: We do not want prayer calls in Denmark. Prayer calls are an intrusive and intimidating intervention in the public space of a country like Denmark. People must believe what they want; we have freedom of religion, and there is nothing wrong with being a Muslim. But the vast majority of us do not want to be confronted in this way with Islam in everyday life. In Denmark we have freedom of religion, not the equality of religion Denmark is not a multicultural society. The people living in Denmark must accept standards, rules and values that are heavier than those in the country from which they or their ancestors migrated, and the alternative to having that attitude is, in my opinion, that support for the welfare state will eventually erode. The social researcher Ümit Necef wrote on the subject in the book •13 challenges to the Danish welfare state, from which I have taken a short quote. He writes: "Many theorists point out the relationship between a certain cultural homogeneity and the development of a welfare state. This is probably more true for European and, above all, northern European countries, where the ideal has traditionally been that national borders should coincide with those of culture and language (i.e. ethnicity). Thus, the Scandinavian countries, which are regarded as the most well-developed welfare states, are some of the world's most ethnic and religiously homogeneous countries. ▪ We must protect that, even in public space. For the time being, there has been one example of a prayer call in a coronatide. Hopefully this was the exception that confirms the rule that we do not have prayer calls in Denmark, and before we go to legislate there must be a problem to legislate about. However, if the situation changes, then it is our view that legislation may be necessary, but so far the Social Democrats do not support the proposal that has now been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154052	Thank you. I think it is a pity that, as a Social Democrat, we say everything right at the outset, in that we do not want prayer calls in Denmark, but that we end up with the wrong conclusion, in relation to whether we should vote in favour of the resolution or not or make our own legislative proposal, because that is possible when you have the power of government. In fact, I think that this shows a little something about what we have seen over decades, namely that we have always been a little behind schedule. And perhaps it is a little conditional when you are a socialist that you have at the moment understood the extent of the problems, but you have not understood what it takes to solve the problems. For some of the things you do when you make a ban are not just saying to the municipalities that it is not now a task they have to take on, we are now sending out a clear signal; but also that you are sending out the clear signal to those who may be out there who think they can moor Islam into our society; a signal that Islam is a private matter, a personal matter, and that Islam should not have an influence on society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154206	I think it is precisely this that shows that we have recognised the scale of the problem and the extent of the problem is that this has happened once and that hopefully it will not happen again. If this is something that is going to become a recurring event, then we have quite clearly said that we do not want it and then we have to find out how to legislate in such a way that it is not something we need to accept in Danish society, because we do not want it. But the problem has to be there before we start solving it. Now I can't see the time here, so I don't really know if I can start a new argument. First Vice-President There is another 1⁄2 minute). Okay. I recently bought in Jem & Fix such an iron to stick dandelions with. I have that in the shed, but I only use it if there are some dandelions in the lawn. I don't use it like that just for fun and go out and make some holes. Well, I spend it the days when I see a dandelion. If there's no one, I'm not going to use it. And a little the same here: we have a legislative tool; we use it if needed. We don't just go around using it because we want to send signals for fun.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154301	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154302	If we are to stay in that picture now, having a lawn in Denmark means having dandelions, and therefore buying yourself a dandelions iron. When there are a very large number of Muslims in Denmark, or a relatively large number of Muslims in Denmark, there is also an Islam that pushes itself into our society. That is why we can say: well, there are not so many problems with prayer calls; it is not so much a problem with the swimming school, because it is not so many places that they are divided into gender; it is not so much a problem with halal food in the day institutions etc. But when you put it together, the problem is the weeds, the weeds that Islam is, in other words, an ideological or totalitarian ideology that politically pushes itself into our social order and exterminates freedom and democracy. And that's why we have to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154353	Well, now I can hear that my analogy to my lawn came to backlash when that's how it's being interpreted. But I would actually say that having fought with that lawn over the spring actually means that there are no dandelions at the moment out there and that is why the problem has been solved. But apart from that, it is true that we have the legislative tool when there are problems, and we need that too. We have also stated clearly that we are prepared to do so if there is a real need, but for the time being we just do not think there is a need. There has been a special situation in which we have not been able to make ordinary prayer calls or regular meetings in mosques for many people, etc., and there we have seen such a corona provision, and there we have seen a prayer call. We haven't seen a pattern in it. For the time being, there is no indication that this is going to happen. If that picture changes, we'll look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154438	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154441	Social democracy doesn't like Muslim prayer calls... social democracy won't touch a finger. It's a very, very strange signal to send. If you really believe that Muslim prayer calls do not belong in Denmark, but will only respond when there are more cases • and I can, unfortunately, guarantee that there will be • I would like to ask if the rapporteur does not think that it would be timely care to set up immediately a group of officials who can prepare a bill that can respond to Muslim prayer calls and say in public to the people who live in Denmark, both those who want there not to be Muslim prayer calls, but also those who might actually want it to happen in Denmark. Would it not be the most real and honest thing to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154537	Well, what I am trying to do from here is to say in public on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that prayer calls will not become everyday in Denmark as long as we have participation together with a number of other parties here in the Folketing who share that view. We are not in favour of us having prayer calls in the public space in Denmark, but we just believe that the problem must exist before we have to legislate on it. To use the legislative tool every time there is something you want to send a signal about in society, I think that is a wrong way to use it. I think it should be used when there are problems that need to be solved. That is one part. The second part is that there may of course be many things that you do not like, but where the right thing is not necessarily to legislate, but where there is also a need to appeal to and expect something from other people. That is what we also hope for with this, that is to say that you do not have an interest in messing with the majority culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154640	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154641	Now it is the case that times can change, and it is not certain that there will be a social democratic government forever and ever. I understand that the Socialist Government is opposed to Muslim prayers, but if there were to be a loss of power, then we would not be able to put this legislation through. That is why it would be timely to ensure that this happens and at least to set up a group of experts, a group of officials, and there will probably also be others who will contribute so that a proposal can be prepared in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154718	Like Mrs Krarup, I would also be sorry if the current government were no longer to sit, but if there were to be a blue government, I am now confident that it would help solve the problem if it were to arise. Now the thing is, this problem doesn't really exist. It happened once, and then a strong signal was sent from virtually all of us that we do not want it, and for now it has not happened again. If that picture changes, it'll be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154743	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154745	Thank you very much. How many cases of prayer calls in Denmark will it take before the Social Democrats want to act with legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154756	That's a good question, and I kind of understand that. Marcus Knuth asks, 'cause I've been thinking about it myself. I myself have not reached a final number, but in my own book it should not be violently many. That's why we're trying to send this pretty powerful signal that this isn't something we want. If the problem turns out to be continuing because the signal is not being heard, then we must use the legislative tool. In order to reply a little to what Mrs Krarup was talking about with an official group, etc., which is also in Mr Krarup's report. Marcus Knuth's interest, according to the comments on amendments, I would like to say that I think it was positive that the Minister should, in this way, respond to that part by trying to find out what it is going to be, where it is, the legal grey areas or considerations or subtleties. So we will have to deal with that part, including in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154851	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154852	What I really fear is that we see a situation like that mentioned in Sweden where there is a municipality that allows prayer calls. If this happens in a municipality in Denmark and we then come with legislation after a mosque has first been granted the permission, can there then, in the light of religious freedom and rights and all that there is the risk that then suddenly you cannot withdraw it again? If it is the case that there is a municipality out there that first grants a permit, can the rapporteur guarantee that we have not opened Pandora's box without being able to close it and actually ban it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154928	No, I cannot guarantee anything at all, and I also know that the rapporteur will certainly be kind and find video clips on social media and all sorts of other things and present them to me if I am guaranteed something that I will then not be able to live up to later. Nevertheless, I would like to say quite clearly that my completely honest attitude to this is that if we come to see something similar to what the rapporteur describes, i.e. a recurring pattern in a municipality where prayer calls are seen, then we have to go to legislation. It is my very clear position that we will then have to legislate. We cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611154956	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155000	The problem of Islam's appearance in Denmark, sir. Rasmus Stoklund is, of course, that if you don't say off at the first moment, it grows exponentially. I wish we'd resigned already when the first little girl with a scarf walked around on the Danish streets and streets. And I wish we'd quit the first time a swimming pool had accepted gender division. I wish we had said no every time politicians have turned down to Islam, because it has been said that this is not a major problem. Because today it is not just a big problem; it is absolutely the biggest problem we have at all. It is a defining problem for what is called Denmark, our homeland. I would therefore like to express my great surprise at the fact that the government will not respond to this. I know, of course, that the rapporteur must be loyal to the government. But could one at least imagine that the government would open up the possibility of imposing bans in the municipalities? One thing, then, is that you will not do it at Christiansborg; another thing is to create the legal basis for a municipal council to say that they will not have it in their municipality, because then it might be that in some municipalities where there is no social democratic or left-wing domination, you could at least get it banned there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155109	I do not think it is acceptable to get into a situation where we see in some municipalities that it is allowed, while it is not allowed in other municipalities, and that as a citizen of Denmark you are dependent on what party color the municipal council of your municipality has. So, no, it's not when I'm asked, a viable path if this problem turns out to be bigger. If this turns out to be a real problem, I do not think there is any way around the fact that we have to go to legislation from in here. However, I am just appealing to and hoping that the signal has been received from the right people and that it will not be a problem with which we will have to deal in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155149	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155150	Well, hope is bright green. It can be said that the signals have not really been received in the last 30 years. It is not the case that integration has improved or that the number of Muslims who pose a problem has diminished. It's only gotten worse, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. And frankly, I do not understand why people are so opposed to this and certainly not with the argument that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund now brings on the track, for there are plenty of things that are different from municipality to municipality. For example: There are some municipalities where mosque construction with minareter has been approved • I also thought it was pretty headless and not very friendly • and other places where you have not done so. So that difference is already there now, so what should be wrong with that one, when Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's party will not ban it here at national level, at least it left it up to the municipalities to ban it at local level?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155231	I do not think it is satisfactory to leave this to the municipalities, so that for the citizens it will depend on which municipality you happen to live in; whether you live in a left-wing or right-wing municipality. I don't think that's a solution. If this is gonna be a real problem, we're gonna have to solve it from in here. Then we'll have to do something so it's not an option. The other one isn't gonna work. And I also understand some of the concerns that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions in his first speech, that is, this with the dominant position that religion is going to have. That is part of the reason why we take this seriously and say that if it starts to happen again, we must take legislative action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155309	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. I would just point out that unfortunately we have some technical problems with the connection to the clock on the platform, so I am trying to be helpful by putting an extra watch next to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155328	Thank you for the floor and thank you to New Citizens for raising this very relevant debate, namely whether Denmark should be a country where prayer calls are something that is going on loudly in public space. And here on the Left side the answer is a big and resounding no thank you. Gellerup should be nothing more than Danish. And when we experience a prayer call, as we saw in Gellerup recently, I am genuinely concerned. When I look at the countries around me and the debate that has moved up through Europe as the population composition has changed in many European countries, there is a debate here which I think we have nothing to do with not taking now. It is not a Denmark that I know, and that is why we must also say clearly from the point of view of prayer calls in public spaces. This simply does not belong here. In addition, it disturbs public order. In Denmark we have freedom of religion. We strongly support that in the Left. You have to believe what you want, but there is no religion. Therefore, the Left is in favour of a ban on prayer calls in public spaces, so we agree with the end goal: there should be no prayer calls in Denmark. However, we think that the comments on the proposal go somewhat further than is reasonable. There may be many discussions about Islam, but when the remarks lean on the words of the Constitution on morality, we are in touch with freedom of religion, which means that we cannot support the resolution in its present form, but instead will put forward our own resolution to stop prayer calls in public. And here I would like to invite the authors of the New Citizens' Party, who also like Conservatives, who have an amendment, I understand, to the motion for a resolution, to present it with us so that we can have the corrections made, also so that we can look at moving the competences away from the municipality and in here where they belong, so that we can put an end to the prospect of more prayer calls in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155535	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155539	Thank you. I welcome the call from the rapporteur. Just for the record: I hope that the Left will support the amendment we have tabled. This is very similar to the situation of a burka ban, which was then transformed into a masking ban. That is what we are trying to do with the wording that comes here. Can the Left support the amendment proposed by Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155604	We in the Left will see obstructing your amendments to the motion for a resolution as preventing your political work, so we will of course support that, even if we are going to vote yellow to what is the final resolution, and then present our own, preferably together with Mr. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Marcus Knuth's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155621	Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155625	When we write in the comments to the resolution that there are parts of Islam that are contrary to morality, it is of course a matter of some of the things that we have also spoken out against on the part of the Danish Parliament. Some believe that it is culturally conditional, while others believe that it is socially conditional, and then we are some who say that it is a built-in part of Islam. This is true, for example. the issue of women's equality in Islam. We have seen examples of imams that maintain women in oppression and in marriages that they themselves do not want to be in. There are a number of situations where Imams have preached hatred against Jews. It is also in the Islamic texts. That is why we say that one should, of course, be allowed to recite if it is something one reads, but to stand and preach hatred against Jews, death against Jews, oppression of women, etc. with electrical reinforcement in addition to Danish cities is for us to see a break with morality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155732	What Mrs Pernille Vermund says is not so much a question but an explanation of why these remarks have been made. I have then said why we are having a hard time with this particular proposal, because it contains these remarks. This must be acknowledged, but we agree with the final objective, and I therefore hope that we will be able to work together to produce a resolution which will hopefully receive the support of a greater circle than just us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155803	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155804	Now I've heard from Mr. Marcus Knuth, that Conservatives are going to make an amendment to the proposal here, and that might be considered by the Left, because we are going to support that. And then it would be strong if that amendment contained what allowed us to be more parties united in this and perhaps, hopefully, who knows, all the civil parties that stand for Danish values, freedom and equality, and not Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155834	We will go a long way along the same path and it will probably not bear much fruit to continue the debate on a retabled motion for a resolution here in Parliament's Chair. So let's take them from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155847	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611155855	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have long wanted a ban on Islamic calls for prayer in Denmark. We believe that cultural clashes are being countered and that integration and assimilation are being promoted by showing that there is a leading culture in Denmark, and this is the Protestant Christian with the resultant secularisation. Therefore, clear Islamic manifestations breaking with the leading Danish culture must be banned wherever possible. In public space these are calls to prayer, about burka, about forced segregation, about the construction of storm mosques and minarets, etc. etc. In our public institutions it is a question of adapting them to the leading culture and not giving room for scarves, bathrooms, halal requirements, special shower curtains, gender segregation, etc. etc. On the other hand, what we do in private should not be regulated. Of course, it seems strange to have to legislate in so many and detailed areas. After all, in our free Western and Protestant Christian culture we are used to being exclusive in such areas, and we are used to having municipal autonomy or the individual head of the public institution itself take care of the area. But today it has just become the case that it is a massive demand from a large group of Islamic backgrounds and their multiculturalist helpers to introduce special requirements for the Islamic group, which goes all the way across Danish culture. It can be difficult to resist in a single municipality or a single public school or swimming pool. That is why central support is needed, and support can be a law. Specifically, we in the Danish People's Party were very angry at the call for prayer in Aarhus on 24 April, and we immediately asked the Minister about the matter, precisely to prepare a well-founded motion for a resolution in this area. We have not yet received answers to all our questions, and that is why this resolution has overtaken us. But, of course, we support the proposal, although we believe that it is unnecessary to reserve calls for prayer without reinforcement. In our view, the ban must apply to both enhanced and unenforceable calls to prayer. The obedient domination in space with Muslim prayer calls is a form of Islamic mission and self-esteem that we must not allow for in Denmark. We have the church bells instead. That is our tradition, and we must stick to it. We must also maintain freedom of religion. It's very important. But freedom of religion is not the same as giving way to all sorts of rituals and rules of conduct in public spaces when they bother others or when they try to define the environment as something that they are not. Denmark is a Christian country and therefore it should not be allowed to make Islamic calls for prayer in the public space of our country. Of course we support B 174, but with the amendment that the ban should apply not only to electrically reinforced prayer calls, but to any prayer call of a certain decibel in public space. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160232	It is simply because I fully agree that we must push Islam back and that we should not have Islamic prayer calls. I think I was given an answer to my question in the last part of the rapporteur's speech, namely that it applies if it is over a certain decibel, because I do not think that it is because the rapporteur and DF want to ban voices in general, which may sound like prayer calls, or what will the amendment be about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160311	The amendment will go on to say that there does not have to be electricity or batteries involved until it can be banned, but it is clear that a bean whisper that cannot be heard by anyone does not have to be banned. But I think that in the very word prayer call there is, of course, a certain decibel, so I think it must be what goes in and defines when it is a prayer call or a prayer whisper, because the prayer whisper will not bother very many people hardly anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160351	Mrs. Pernille Vermund? No, there are no more brief remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160403	Thank you. Since our rapporteur, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, unable to be present, I shall have the honour of presenting the following views: On the basis of a prayer call in Aarhus, New Citizens are calling for a ban on, and I quote, the Islamisation of Denmark. As far as I know, this is a municipal matter, and I think that is actually an excellent place to place responsibility for this sort of thing. But what we are talking about today is not something that affects our everyday life to a great extent, so I can easily live with the idea that foreign religions, which are even recognised as religions in Denmark, comply with our legislation and apply our constitution, have an idea of replacing church bells with, for example, church bells. prayer calls, which absolutely do not need to be on amp system. It brings a memory, which is a few years old, into my consciousness. I got a letter from a young citizen from Aarhus. He was a student at Aarhus University, and he used Sunday morning to sleep long, and he was furious at constantly being awakened by church bells. So he wrote to the church minister asking the church minister to stop those bells from sounding Sunday morning. He didn't realize that the Minister couldn't just decide that. I find it interesting, and then when I tried to cultivate it a little, I found that very much of the legislation we have about church bells and the use of church bells comes from Frederik III, who implemented it in the law he made during the absolute monarchy in 1665. And it is still in force rules for the use of church bells; that is, some of the rules are there. I think that is also a thought that should be taken with you: we are not all crazy about church bells. I am, but there are many others who are not. And there are rules for it. Therefore, you can also make rules for people's prayer calls, if at last it is. I would like to conclude by reminding you of a common experience which I hope we all share here. Down at the incarceration of the Walking Hall, where the constitutions include: There are four words painted on the wall. They have been standing there since 1918 and painted by the evil painter, Rasmus Larsen, who has decorated the Walking Hall. And these are four very, very central concepts because they define what created the Denmark we have today. It is a common cultural heritage which, in my view, is very, very important to remember. And I think it's a commitment every time you walk by down there, just to remember what it says. In order for everyone to be part of this experience, I have to mention them here. It says: Righteousness, lawfulness, liberality, generosity. This is the basis which has created the Denmark that we know today, and I certainly hope that we can keep remembering the four concepts and keeping them alive. It is our social development that is at stake, and that is why the Radical Left cannot help New Citizens with their proposals today. But there are other things we would like to help them with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160741	Thank you. It was interesting to hear a comparison between church bells and prayer calls such as one to one, as if both were to be equally natural, i.e. equally acceptable or equally unacceptable, in a society like the Danish one. I think it shows a little of the value base on which one stands, or perhaps it bears witness to the lack of understanding of Islam. And I am sorry, but when the rapporteur mentions the four words 'righteous', 'lawful', 'friendly' and 'great', I have to ask the rapporteur: in which Islamic country or in which part of a western country is marked by Islamic values, and there are a great many, including Denmark, do the rapporteur find these four words: 'righteous', 'lawful', 'free' and 'great'? Because in my optics these are precisely the values that are being pushed back by Islam and by any other totalitarian ideology of the same kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160853	I totally disagree with New Citizen's Member of Parliament in here. And I am because I know very, very many people who have come from other parts of the world who live in Denmark and who have gone completely smoothly into the community that we have in the communities, as a member of the board of the day institution or the primary school, etc., and who participate in all sorts of activities across the board with other citizens who have a different religion than they do. And it is an expression of what I call righteous, lawful, liberal, generous. It also takes generosity to be able to accommodate others who are different from you and make things work. And that's what we've been really good at with our association life and our volunteering, etc., etc. And there are a lot of people with different ethnic backgrounds who are part of those communities on an equal footing with others. It can be done in many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160954	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611160955	I almost feel turned back to the 1990s, but I have to ask: can the rapporteur mention one country marked by Islamic values, where, for that matter, for example, law or liberalism or generosity apply to just one country? Because we are not talking here about the individual Muslim who may have said: I do not subscribe to the political part of Islam; I keep it to myself as a private belief. After all, we are talking about whether Islam should influence our society, and that is what we are trying to push back here. So the rapporteur can mention a single one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161038	Actually, I didn't sit down and do that kind of analysis of the world around us. But I just see that we have a world where we have both local and national solutions and European solutions and world solutions, because we are a member of the United Nations, which is virtually every country in the world. And we must make things work, and that is a good example of how, despite the differences between many, many leaders and edges, we must be able to work together and create something that will be a better world. Actually, that's what I get up to do every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161113	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161115	Thank you very much. I just have to say that I think it is so glaringly wrong at all to equate church bells with Muslim prayer calls in Arabic in Denmark. Does Radicals really agree that some mosques here in Denmark should have the right to call to prayer with a loudspeaker in Arabic in addition to the Danish rooftops?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161139	I think I did my best to say that it should not be with the amplifier, and I do not mean with the speaker either. That is actually what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161148	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161149	Now I could not hear exactly what the rapporteur said, but that is to say, the rapporteur is in favour of calling to prayer, but not using a loudspeaker. In fact, this is what we from Conservatives have proposed in an amendment that would ban the use of speakers to call for prayer in Arabic in addition to the Danish rooftops. Does this mean that we can expect that when that amendment goes through, the Radical Left will vote in favour of the ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161217	I can't tell you about that until it's been past the parliamentary group. And I am not the rapporteur in this area either. However, I have expressed my view on this and it is a view that has been approved by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161226	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161230	Now that we have the privilege of hearing about Mrs Marianne Jelved's view of the world, I would like to continue and see if Mrs Marianne Jelved has perhaps considered what it is that has done, that Denmark is a free-minded country and a good country to live in, etc., because it could be when we look at the conditions of other countries that it is the conditions that have led to very different social conditions. It is hardly a coincidence that some countries are fleeing and some countries are fleeing, and that one can therefore have a concern that when the concentration of the people who otherwise live in countries from which one flees becomes too large in the countries to which one flees, then the living conditions from which one actually fled move up to us too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161322	It is, of course, the question whether it is necessary to integrate into the society to which we come up in Denmark, for example, and the more we share our liberalism with those who come and who are slightly different from us when they come here, the more they then accept and understand what we mean when we say liberalism. We have, for example. the free schools. In 1844 it was before the Basic Law that the High School Movement began to assert itself, and since 1855 there has been legislation in Denmark that parents are responsible for their children's education and can decide for themselves what kind of education they should be subject to. And that still applies, but it is a struggle to keep it, because there are many who do not like it, apparently. But we'd be happy to take that fight in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161414	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161415	What is Mrs Marianne Jelved's assumption that the more liberal people are shown, the more they allow themselves to be integrated? So, can Mrs Marianne Jelved, if we look at just the continent of Europe, which we probably both know best, point to one country where it has to be said that, overall, it has gone very well with Muslim immigration? And I am not interested in hearing whether Mrs Marianne Jelved has met one, two or ten, because so have I, but I am interested in a place where it is said that, overall, the Muslims have become part of that society. Because I don't see it. So, in all the countries where a large number of Muslims have come from France to Germany to the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden and Denmark, I can only see that we have the same problems and I do not think it is liberal that would have solved it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161502	Everyone is happy in his faith, so to speak. Nevertheless, it is my impression that there are a lot of Muslims living in Denmark sometimes I am surprised at how many there actually are but that very few groups out of the large amount make themselves felt in an unfortunate way. There are, among other things: our housing policy, which we should change, and I think that is a common recognition in here, in other words that we have done the wrong thing in the way we have made residential neighbourhoods, which are very one-sided. I think that is a huge task to be reversed. We are happy to contribute to that in my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161542	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161546	Thank you. I just stumble a little over the relativism that I think some of the views expressed by Mrs Marianne Jelved are expressed, among other things. This comparison with church bells. There are, after all, a large number of countries around the world where state and church, or religion, are to some extent linked. I have struck at it: of those countries where there is no constitutional distinction between religion and state, there are 25 Muslims and 11 Christians in round numbers. But what is just the special difference because we ourselves are one of the countries that is that in Christian countries it is almost always of a relatively symbolic nature, and that is one of the reasons why the undersigned at least does not want to see Muslim prayer calls in Danish society, that is that it is a signal of something else; it is a signal of Sharia and a signal of a political ideology in combination with religious ideology and that is, in my view, the challenge of accepting it here on an equal footing with the church bells.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161653	Sometimes I want to make some kind of public education initiative where we try to sit down and talk about the very things that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund describes here. Because there is a very large difference between what is happening around Denmark, also in other countries. However, if we stick to Denmark, I think that what I call the basic culture in Denmark, and as I have mentioned with the four concepts from the Hvidrehallen, has made it actually easier to be foreign in Denmark than it is in so many other places. In fact, there is a really good integration, a really good integration, many, many places in Denmark, and then there are some residential areas that are missing, and which I think we should get together and find out how to get changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161747	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161749	I am fundamentally opposed to this, because I believe that integration on long stretches has totally failed far too many places in Denmark, even outside some of the residential areas where it is quite obvious that it has failed. This can be seen in employment statistics, crime statistics, in relation to problems of social control and value studies, i.e. how to look at the role of religion in society. In other words, if you accept a comparison with church bells, you also accept the view that a religion, in combination with a political pillar, must also be in the public space of Denmark a Sharia approach which I certainly do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161833	Sharia is not religion as such; it is a certain way of looking at things. So I might also find it a little difficult to discuss it in the way we are doing this. And if there was a real interest in us trying to put our own Danish words and concepts behind the things we have as headlines, then it could also be that we could become more understanding of each other, in relation to what we really are talking about and what we mean. But I don't make a public education community here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161911	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611161914	I wonder why it makes no impression on Mrs Marianne Jelved when one of the greatest authorities in the field of research into integration, the Dutch integration scientist named Ruud Koopmans, says that not a single Western country has succeeded in integrating Muslims, and the reason they have not succeeded in doing so, is that what is being said in these Muslim prayer calls is that if you are going to popularize it a little bit that liberalism, rightfulness, lawlessness and magnanimity is something that cannot be used for anything. That is the essence of Sharia, that is the essence of orthodox Islam. After four decades in Danish politics, does not Mrs Marianne Jelved make any impression that this is what the researchers have come to? If you see a ghost driver, of course you have to be careful, but if everyone looks like they're ghost drivers, you might have to start thinking for yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162014	It could be that sir... Henrik Dahl and I had to walk together for a month, 24 hours and 24 hours with each other in hand, to see what kind of society we see. I have to say. Apparently a lot depends on the eyes that see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162035	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162036	I fully agree that all people have the right to their own opinion, but the prerequisite for us to have a rational conversation is, however, a recognition that we do not have the right to our own facts. What I'm saying is facts. Are there no facts that impress Mrs Marianne Jelved and the Radical Left on immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162057	Yes, there are facts that impress us, and I have to say that in my party we actually meet many people who are very well integrated into Danish society and who also come with Islamic backgrounds. They exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162115	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162118	Thank you. I also very much appreciate the Danish liberalism, but I think it borders on naivety or crazy goodness when you say that you can integrate people by sharing out our liberalism. It has not succeeded. It has not succeeded at all. It has, of course, been the radical model of integration of the Left, the liberal model of integration which has been tried through the 1990s and, in part, into the '00s' which we have tried to slow down in the Danish People's Party, which has been the dominant, and it has not worked at all. People do not change by showing them freeness of mind, as well as we have not been able to export our free democratic social systems to other countries without wishing to do so themselves. If people want it, it's something completely different. But you can't force them to want it. That is why it has gone completely wrong and I think it is time we put a tombstone over the liberal model of integration or rather a pillar of shame, because where has it ever worked?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162228	Radical Left is not a liberal party; it is a social liberal party. This means that it is based both on freeness, freedom and community, and it is the art of making the two things together, and that is what creates the Denmark that we want. It's not just liberal, it's social liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162252	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162253	But that is what literature calls the liberal model of integration, and it has failed. It has failed a great deal, and that is what the Radical Left has advocated. It's a wrong method. We must not show tolerance to intolerance, because then intolerance wins, and that is what we have done over and over again, and we have not wanted to face up to the fact that this is a different culture, in which a few people want to take over a free mind, but very many do not want it and cannot do it. That is why we are in the difficult situation that we have today, and that is why even Mrs Marianne Jelved should start to open her eyes and recognise that it has been a huge phony for what the Radical Left has been aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162341	Yeah, that's why we have different parties in here. It is, of course, for us to be able to accommodate the differences that exist and the way we see the world individually. And I see the world in a slightly different way than Mrs. Marie Krarup does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162358	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162409	Thank you. I think this is an exciting debate and I also followed the consultation online this morning. I really think there have been some pretty good discussions on this. I think it is a perfectly fair debate to raise. It's about some important things. It is about cultural clash, it is about the role of religion in society, and it is about how much religion must fill in public space, and it is important. I could feel that when I saw the video from the prayer call in Gellerup, which was when Denmark was shut down by corona, I didn't like it. Of course, I only have to answer for that myself. That is probably because I have a general problem with presumptuously, I think, were the Minister's words, religious markings. In the Socialist People's Party, we are also open to making some legislation in this area if it becomes a problem. However, to go so far as to make special legislation for Muslim prayer calls, which New Citizens are calling for, we cannot in any way support. If you want to make legislation in this area, you have to do something that applies to everyone and is not directed at one particular religion. If a broader regulation were made in this area, we think that the most relevant thing would be to look at decibel limits and duration and frequency and such things. I think that would be the most important thing to look at if we were to regulate this area. So the Socialist People's Party cannot support this proposal, and I should also welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162546	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162550	Thank you. I have two things to say. Marcus Knuth mentioned earlier that the Conservative People's Party will table an amendment which includes all religions, but also the Danish National Church, which has a special status in the Constitution. So one question is: will the SF support it? It supports New Citizens and, of course, I hope that as many people as possible will support it. Secondly, when the rapporteur says that the rapporteur did not like what the rapporteur saw when prayer calls were made from the Mosque of Fredericks in Gellerup, I do not suppose that the rapporteur has the same opinion on the same decibel or noise level if, for example, it does so. is a football game that gets hung up on, or a rock concert you sing with. So does the rapporteur not recognise that it is more than just noise nuisances that lie in the problem than Muslim prayer calls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162656	Yes, I recognise that it is more than noise nuisances, and I also think it would be fair enough to make some legislation that turned to religious prayer calls if it became a problem in Denmark. In fact, I share the views of the Social Democrats today that this is not a major problem in Denmark right now. On the other hand, of course, I should like to see the proposal that lies before me: I do not believe that the SF will support a motion for a resolution banning all forms of religious prayer in that it is not a major problem in Denmark, but I do agree with the principle that Mr. Marcus Knuth's side, that if you want to ban religious prayer calls, it must be broad instead of focusing it specifically on one religion, because I do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162746	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162747	After all, it is a step on the way. Could you ask the rapporteur how many prayer calls it takes before this is a general problem? And could the rapporteur imagine that there would be SF councillors around the country who would accept prayer calls in their municipalities? And can we not see that, in reality, there is already a problem? Because if, as SFs, you accept prayer calls in municipal councils but do not recognise that this is a problem at national level, then you sneak it a little in the back way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162822	No, I do not think we can see that there is a general problem on the basis of a case that has been in a rather special situation where Denmark was shut down. So I certainly don't think so, no. The first part of the question I forgot what was. I'm sorry. First Vice-President How many calls...). Oh, yeah, that's a little polemical. I think it would be strange to say ten, and so it is clear that if this is something that we are beginning to regard as a general problem, and that happens repeatedly, then we are quite ready to negotiate any legislation that regulates this area, because I understand that it can be annoying if we see that there are a lot of prayer calls coming in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162902	Sir. Marcus Knuth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162908	Thank you. I would just like to call on the rapporteur to vote in favour of our amendments, because it is quite landmark if the SF goes in and blocks a change to a resolution which, as it stands right now, is unconstitutional because it is aimed only at Muslims, where we want a broad ban, which the rapporteur is also speaking in favour of. So can I expect the rapporteur to support this? This is not, of course, the same as the rapporteur having to vote in favour of the resolution, but I am sure the rapporteur would like the motion for a resolution to be a constitutional one, if one can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611162947	Of course, the Socialist People's Party would like it to be constitutionally friendly. And I will just discuss the specific amendment with my parliamentary group, but my immediate thought is that we would rather see a model in which all religious prayer calls were banned than a model in which one region is specifically targeted. This does not mean that we will then vote in favour of the final motion for a resolution, but as a starting point I can say to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Marcus Knuth, that yes, I think it makes sense to change the resolution in the direction that the Conservative People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163013	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163014	I just wanted to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163016	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163018	Thus, there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank the rapporteur. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also welcomed the report by the rapporteur, and so it has become the Conservative People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163041	Thank you, President. I'm really glad we're having this discussion today. Conservatives' view is clear: We want to ban noisy Muslim prayer calls like the one we experienced in the Gellerup Park a month ago. At the time, the Minister was furious, and the mayor of B.T. was angry too, so I am disappointed that the air has gone out of the balloon for the government since then. Now we will not hear this morning that the Social Democrats regard the call for prayer in Gellerup as a single swallow, but when we look at the repeated problems of mosques around Denmark preaching Islamism, promoting Sharia, supporting Islamic State and making illegal demonstrations, I think it is very naive of Social Democracy to believe that there will be no more prayer calls. We also need only look at Sweden to see what the reality is. We have already mentioned the municipality of Växjö in southern Sweden, which has now decided that every Friday the local mosque with a loudspeaker must call to prayer in addition to the Swedish going in Arabic. The prayer call must last 3 minutes and 45 seconds, and it must not be higher than 110 dB, which I could read to correspond to the noise of a compressed air drill. Well, just imagine it happening in Denmark. That's the risk. In Copenhagen, for example, there is one. Right now, a narrow majority of the blue parties and the Social Democratic Party, which I believe would oppose a request for prayer, but what happens after the next municipal elections if the Enhedslisten, the alternative, the Radical Left, etc. will have a majority and will actually introduce it? Then we risk standing here in the Folketing with a situation where it is too late and we did not have time to legislate. That is why Conservatives today support a ban on noisy prayer calls here in Denmark, not just Muslim, but all prayer calls, regardless of whether it is Islam or another religion, or whatever language it is in. That is precisely why we have tabled the amendment calling for the ban not only to include Muslim prayer calls, but also loudspeaker prayer calls. This reminds me a little of the situation of burka bans versus masking bans. Nor does the proposal here conflict, as I read it, with the constitution or freedom of religion. And, of course, we hope for broad support for the proposal. Thanks to New Citizens for also saying that they support the amendment, and I understand that the SF probably does too. The Left supports it, and I believe and hope that the Social Democrats will support it as well. And so we want an even better resolution here in the Folketing. Our amendment also states that a ban must in no way hinder the church bells or other activities of the Danish National Church. The National Church, of course, has a special status here in Denmark according to the Constitution. And just for the sake of good order, I must also say that the comments we make in our amendments are those we are in favour of. We are not in favour of the whole text of the comments on the New Citizens' resolution, which is why we naturally have our own. It's no wonder we're different parties. So with the expectation of a resounding majority for our amendments, we support the overall ban on loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163423	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163429	Thank you for that and thank you for a constructive approach to this. For us in New Citizens, it is no problem that in other parties you need to spread this beyond more religions. However, we are also hearing from the Conservative People's Party and from almost all other parties, with the exception of the Radical Left today, that it is Sharia that is the problem, that Islam is the problem and that Muslim prayer calls are the problem. When we do not have a problem in New Citizens with spreading it out to prayer calls from others, with the exception of the Danish National Church, which has special status under the Constitution, it is because we do not have problems with the possibility that any prayer calls that may come from others will also be closed. But I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of other religions that use prayer calls, as described in the proposal here, so not Muslim, but others?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163524	I get it. No, I don't, and I spent a while investigating whether we risk stepping other religions on our toes. It could be the Jewish community or the Catholic community or others who have been in Denmark and lived within exactly the same standards as the entire Danish community. That is also why I use the comparison with the burka ban versus the masking ban, because when we did the masking ban, we were very clear that it is a masking ban, which also applies to burkas. We were also very clear that the burkas were probably the spark of the masking ban. Therefore, I also say quite openly here that the problem so far in Denmark has been with Muslim prayer calls. However, as a result of the constitution and religious freedom, we need to formulate it more broadly, and in this way we also catch others who should come up with the crazy idea of standing with a speaker and a foreign language crying out over the rooftops.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163625	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163627	I am pleased to hear that the Conservative People's Party recognises that the problem is Islam and that it is the Muslim prayer calls that are at issue. And if, on the conservative side, you make an amendment that you think can make it easier to get through this, then we are fully in favour, and we are also glad that, as the rapporteur also says, we can hear that there are more who seem to support it. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163652	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163654	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163658	In the Danish People's Party we feel that it does not matter whether the cat is black or red, as long as it can catch mice. So if this resolution can ban Islamic prayer without mentioning it, it may be good enough, but I think it might be a bit girlish right away to remove the description of what it is that you want to ban. It was just a comment. I have a question: why does the Conservative People's Party not want to ban prayer calls that are not loudspeaker-enhanced? If you are equipped with a sufficiently violent voice-shouting body, you do not need reinforcement, and you can bother and dominate your surroundings very much. Conservatives think that this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163749	First of all, let me make it clear: we Conservatives believe that it is just as great a nuisance whether it is a Muslim prayer call or some sect's prayer call. After all, we live in a fast-moving world. There are different sects and branches of religions around Denmark now that do some strange things, and we think it will be as disturbing if they make prayer calls as if they are Muslims. So we say very openly that we want this to embrace as wide as possible, as long as it doesn't affect the church. So on the question of prayer calls, which are not loudspeaker-enhanced: there I think we are moving into a very difficult legal discussion, because should we then ban speech? So you can't talk out loud? And so far, the times when they've been there have been loudspeaker-enhanced. We think that is a sensible place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163841	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163842	I think the debate may turn out to be such a strange legal practice, because we agree that it is Islamic prayer calling that we want to ban. We come on the brink of ridiculousness if we cannot really talk about it as it is, because that is the problem. We will see that in many ways. But I think we are in complete agreement on what we want. I just think that it can be a little difficult to make sense of it when it comes to talking about it in such a complex and politically correct way as is actually what the Conservative People's Party is trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163923	I've had such a surreal experience. I was actually able to think constructively when I heard the rapporteur speak and that is not directed at the rapporteur, but you can think constructively here from the platform, and what we are saying here is that we are against loud prayer calls. Then we shall see how we translate it into the law. As a starting point, it is of course loudspeaker-enhanced calls, but if it is the case that there are examples of something that is a nuisance to the Danish population, where you use something other than a speaker, we are of course willing to talk about it. But as a starting point, I think loudspeaker-enhanced calling is a good place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611163959	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Should I understand that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion wants to share his speech? Otherwise, it is in the rapporteur's order, Mr President. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance, who also seems a little surprised by the order. Now it's sir. Henrik Dahl, and then the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution will have the floor. Welcome, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611164026	Thank you. It was lucky I didn't have to write my speech. There is no doubt that Article 67 of the Constitution gives all citizens of Denmark freedom of religion, and then there is this reservation that we have been talking about during the day, which is that nothing must be taught that is contrary to morality or public order. But there can be no doubt that one has the right to be free from the religion of others. Everyone has to bear the fact that there are churches all over the country. In many cases they have been there since the Middle Ages, and they have such an acoustic driving right in the public space. There can be no doubt about that. But in general, that is the way it is, and that is what we have spent so much time discussing in the last decade and a half that I do not have to conform to religions that I do not believe in. As a Protestant, I am not going to abide by the rules and customs of Catholic, Jewish, Islamic or a fourth or fifth religion. What exactly is involved in disturbing public order is not someone who knows, but without drawing quite unreasonablely in the meaning of the term, it can be said that acoustically, in any case, disturbs public order to a considerable extent, sending Islamic prayers and creeds into public space. It also hits eardrums that do not have the slightest interest in getting hit. It is therefore an important issue raised by this motion for a resolution, but the debate has, of course, been somewhat in different directions along the way. What I think we have to do, and I also sense that there is a mood for that, is, in fact, to find a solution which all the parties who recognise the problem see themselves in terms of the considerations that need to be taken. And that's over the middle. So, the Social Democrats and the bourgeois parties all acknowledge that this is a problem, but I just think that the way forward is to say that we have to sit down and knit together a solution that can then be voted home by this group of parties that have a responsible approach to things. So we are pleased with the debate. What we would prefer is a report, or that the Minister convenes negotiations in which the parties that have indicated that the problem is real sit down and find some solution that can hold over a long-term election that can hold up criticism and so on. etc. It's probably the most dangerous thing. So I shall conclude my speech by saying here from the platform because then it will be recorded forever and forever that we are one of the parties that takes the issue here seriously. Religions that citizens do not profess should largely have no influence on people's lives. A report or negotiations in which all parties that have a positive attitude to the proposal are included is what we would prefer. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611164350	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611164409	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. It has been a very good debate; it has been a debate which, on the one hand, has revealed that there is and thank God for it today a number of parties who understand or at least express understanding about the problem of Islam. Unfortunately, there is not full support for the motion for a resolution, but there is, after all, support for some progress. After all, the problem is that politicians have turned a blind eye for decades, while Islam has gained more and more influence in our society. Muslim religions have been recognised, special rights are given for the sake of Islam in Denmark, there are gender-separated swimming lessons, there are child brides, there are bathrooms in educational institutions and public workplaces served halal-slaughtered meat in hospitals and in institutions, and the Muslim scarf has become a normal view of schools and public jobs. A study from the City of Copenhagen shows that an increasing proportion of young people with a non-Western background want religious laws to be placed above Danish secular laws. And an investigation from the Ministry of Justice shows that 76%. of immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries believe that it should be illegal to criticise Islam. Islam is in opposition to values such as freedom and democracy. The more Islam fills a society, the less room there will be for freedom and democracy, the fundamental values on which our society is founded. In Denmark, people must believe and think what they want, but we must not allow Islam to push into our society. Islam must be pushed back into private life. So far, we in Denmark have been spared Islamic messages shouting out over our cities and residential areas from mosques and minarets, but in April an imam with electric reinforcement let Islam's messages crawl out over a residential area in Aarhus. The Imam comes from a mosque that is known from the documentary "Mosques behind the veil." Hopefully, many remember that horrible documentary. It was the one who showed how a Sharia council advised a woman not to leave her husband or go to the police, even though he beat her up, forced her into sex and wanted another wife. All this is the consequence of politicians who for years have refused to take character and announce to the preachers of Islam in Denmark that Islam should have no influence. Specifically in relation to prayer calls, the parties in here have dropped responsibility and left it to the municipalities to keep Islam out of society. But out in the municipalities, where Danish Islamic Religion wants to pray more and more places, they don't know what to do. In the municipality of Elsinore they have received a prayer call from the Danish Islamic Religion, which is why they have asked the church minister for a statement almost a month ago. The municipality lacks explanation as to why and how they should be involved in the decision of the question. The municipality considers that they are not authorised to deal with the request for prayer calls, but they have not received an answer. As members of the Folketing, we should adopt a ban on Muslim prayer calls in public space. It is completely untenable if it is the municipal administration that is to ensure the Danes against Islam pushing further and further into our society. The incident from Aarhus clearly shows this. Here it was a locally responsible for a football field which had no hesitation whatsoever in giving the imam permission to brag Islam beyond the city. There must be clear legislation to ensure that imams calling for prayer in public spaces are prosecuted and punished. Electrically reinforced Islamic prayer is contrary to public order, and the teachings expressed by prayer, such as: We must not allow Islam to gain more and more influence in our society. You have to put a foot down, and it has to be with the heel first. We must signal that it is here and no longer, because if we do not act in time, we will end up with a situation where Muslim prayer calls become the norm and we will not go there. Since a majority of the parties have said that they do not want prayer calls in Denmark, I would of course have hoped that a majority would vote in favour of this proposal, but that is not the case, as you know. Unfortunately, we are once again in a situation where a large number of parties and politicians say one thing, but do something else. I am glad, however, that the DF unequivocally backs our proposal and also has an amendment that sounds reasonable, as long as it is, as the rapporteur mentioned earlier. We now have to see what ends up with ■ and I am also very happy that the Conservative People's Party supports it, also with an amendment that we can also support, because the aim is for us to overcome Islamic prayer calls, to put the pressure on Islam back, and of course we will also have that if we ensure that other religious calls for prayer are banned, with the exception of the Danish National Church, which already has a special status, also in the Constitution. Then I am very pleased that the Left, which is not here now, is, after all, in favour of the proposal and says clearly no to prayer calls in Denmark, and that LA is going a constructive way and says that there must be an opportunity for us to move forward on this track, and that even the SF also says clearly: we do not like this in our society. And although the government says that you do not want prayer calls in Denmark, and yet you say that you will not vote in favour of the resolution, I also hear from the government and the Social Democrats that when this becomes a problem, and I will almost guarantee that it does so, then you are ready to act. I hope that the Social Democrats will not wait as long to act on this, as they have generally waited to act on foreign policy in Denmark. I hope that 40 years will not pass, because then we will have more problems than prayer calls in Denmark. However, with that said, I would like to thank you for a constructive debate and say that, although there is no majority in favour of the proposal, as I said, it seems that there is a broad recognition that Islam must be pushed back, that we do not want Islam to push into our values and that there is a feeling that we have to take responsibility for that. In New Citizens we say: Islam should have no influence in our society, and we scratch, we fight on, we don't give up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165146	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165151	I would just like to sign for the speech and to acknowledge without too much controversy that we are in agreement on the intention, that is, that the bottom line is that we should not have a Danish society with prayer calls, because there is no doubt about that. We assess it so differently, in terms of whether we have a problem right now or whether we do not have a problem right now. We estimate that a single case in a coronatide is not a trend. If that picture changes and we see a trend, the matter is different, and then we will not wait 40 years. Mrs Pernille Vermund can be quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165223	I'm really glad. I am perhaps not only concerned that 40 years will pass but also concerned that the composition of this Parliament will change or that the policy of the parties that are here could change. And we've seen it before, just to tell you the truth. We have seen how parties can move politically; we have seen how the majority can change significantly from one election to another. How do we stand if next time there will be a large red majority and the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left will be able to swing the clock again? Then I could be worried that it will be difficult to be a social democratic government and get proposals like this through. And that is also why we believe that due diligence is about that when you have the power, you also have the responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165317	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165318	I do not share the concern, because already there is a large majority in the Folketing across the blocs for strict immigration policy. We must admit that social democracy has moved after a few years of not being in the right place, and if social democracy is going to move further, it will not be back, then it will be the other way. So Mrs Pernille Vermund can be completely safe and sleep well at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165344	When I am concerned, it is not only because of the social democracy, it is perhaps more because of the Social Democrats' support parties, which have a different political agenda, and that is how it is, after all, the conditions of a democracy. But it has probably also been quite obvious for most people who have listened and participated today that, for example, the Radical Left is a whole, quite different place. And if, God forbid, if you have to say this, the Radical Left gets bigger at the next election, then there could be a problem. However, I hope that due care will be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165421	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165440	The debate is open. We shall first give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165505	Thank you for that, President. In the autumn of 2019 the government noted that it was necessary to adjust the timetable in the settlement Security about the housing tax agreed between the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party, so that the housing tax conversion was postponed from 2021 to 2024. In this context, the government stated that the postponement must not, of course, mean that housing taxes will increase. That is why I am very pleased to be here today for the first reading of a legislative proposal which ensures precisely that. If the housing tax rules remain unchanged, the postponement of the change in housing tax will result in higher housing taxes for Danish home owners. That is why the draft law we are discussing here today aims to create continued security in the area of housing taxation and to compensate homeowners and tenants for the tax effect of postponing the change in housing tax. The bill ensures that current and future homeowners can be sure of what tax rules apply and that the property owners do not have to pay for the fact that the tax administration's IT problems have made it necessary to postpone the implementation of the new housing tax rules by 3 years. It is a great decision to buy a home, and for many citizens it is the biggest economic decision one will make through a life. A home is more than bricks, it's a home, it's here, many of us start family, this is where we break roots, this is where we meet neighbors and create a future in our community. That is why it is important for the Social Democrats that homeowners should be able to know which tax rules apply and that they should not fear that they will suddenly no longer be able to afford to sit in their homes because the tax increases. The draft law will contribute to this by reducing the ordinary property value tax rates from 1%. to 0.92%. from 2021, lower the ceiling for the increase in the base debt from 7%. 2.8%. from 2022 for owner-occupied dwellings and from 2023 for other property owners. It will also come tenants in e.g. the general housing sector to the benefit of the general housing sector. We need to ensure that the municipal land tax and the coverage tax rates cannot be increased in the period 2021-2028. At the same time, the bill contributes to the security of the landowners by continuing the temporary freezing system so that property owners do not experience an increase in the basic debt paid. The scheme will continue to be interest-free until the change in housing tax in 2024 when the temporary scheme is replaced by the permanent scheme. At the same time, the conciliation parties behind the agreement agree to implement a number of initiatives, including: with a view to ensuring the best possible administrative base for the tax administration, as well as that owners of new and older buildings will not pay more in land than intended. Finally, the draft law provides for a number of adjustments to the repayment mechanism agreed with the settlement of a new property valuation system, so that the repayment mechanism becomes effective and manageable and, in addition, among other things. is extended to cover the property value tax for 2020. We have long heard of mistakes and shortcomings in the housing sector. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased that it has been possible to reach an agreement with broad support in the Folketing, which ensures calm about housing taxes and security for the property owners. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165817	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611165832	Thank you for the floor. It was a great regret for us when the housing tax system was postponed by 3 years. We have made a really nice housing tax agreement that can provide some transparency and some security for the property owners in relation to a new assessment system and some housing taxes that you can count on. Now it has been postponed for 3 years, and what we would then end up in was that it would mean that the Danes would experience higher housing taxes next year because there was no basis yet in place. Of course, we could not live with that, which is why we are very happy that we have managed to reach an agreement on a compensation scheme for the landowners, so no one will have to pay more in tax for their accommodation next year, just because the Tax Authority's systems do not work. What we are actually doing here is lowering the property value tax by 3 billion. kr. 2021-2023 and permanently reduces housing taxes by 0.6 billion. kr. Before rewinding. We do so that the reason is maximum. may rise by 2.8%. Every year 2022-2024, and the freezing system that is at present for the ground blame becomes voluntary, so that you are not bound to have it frozen; you can choose that for yourself and you can choose that year by year. And then the land tax rate cannot be increased up to 2028, nor can the cover tax rate. So we are creating a security for the Danes. It should not be more expensive to be a Dane, nor should it be more expensive to have a home. One should not be taxed out of one's home, and that is what we are doing with this compensation scheme. It is against a tedious background, but we are pleased that we have managed to reach a very good agreement on the compensation scheme. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170013	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170027	Yes, we are back here, unfortunately, on the housing tax system. Unfortunately, this is a mistake as far back as 2011. Now we tell the landowners that we probably solved it in 2024. So in the Danish People's Party we do not think that there is so much to enjoy. We are pleased, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that it has now been possible to ensure, although it has been decided to postpone the reimbursement, that during that period it will not be more expensive to be a homeowner in Denmark. It should be remembered, however, that the tax base currently available to homeowners is wrong. Some pay too much, some pay too little. It was back in 2017 that we made the agreement that we should have corrected that and that money should have been repaid in 2019. Now it's gonna happen in 2024. We have also made it very clear that this is the last time that the Danish People's Party helps to postpone it with the refund. There is a legal challenge in the fact that we, as an authority, are collecting amounts from the public, which we know are not correct and that they have not been correct since 2011. We also recognise, of course, that there have been major challenges in creating this IT system. When we pay back the money, it is just as important that it is done in a sound and proper way. But I am disappointed that this has not been possible between 2017 and 2019. Then it was until 2021, and now it is not until 2024 that the property owners can get a fair valuation of property. So that's why we're less happy today. We are, of course, positive about the fact that in the course of the negotiations we have prevented the price increases that would be. The former rapporteurs have been well aware of the elements that counteract this. In general, however, we need to follow very closely, as we do, how a new housing tax system is being rolled out. And we would also like to say to the current government and future governments, no matter what colour the minister has, that everyone has a responsibility for this being absolutely the last time we decide to keep the property owners' money in the treasury; they must of course return to the property owners. But we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170250	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170258	Thank you so much. In the Radical Left, too, we are happy to be able to support this good solution to a clearly boring situation. We are also very pleased that 13 billion are now being sent. kr. In addition to the landowners it is an average of DKK 18,000. per citizens of Denmark started here from the spring, and we are very pleased that the principles laid down in the original housing tax agreement are also followed, both when it comes to balance and to the principle of justice that also lies in it. However, I would just like to stop for a moment by saying that, as politicians, we simply have to follow developments in these IT systems more closely than we may have done. Now, of course, I have not been involved in following them in the past, but we should simply understand ourselves as a form of steering group for an important project. We can see that there is everywhere in this agreement and in the paper material that we get that this is still a high-risk project, and that means that we are looking into an opportunity for further postponement, and that is the kind of situation that I think we should at least be able to know about along the way. We should simply keep in mind how things are going here, so that we may be able to take measures earlier and not end up wringing the arm on our backs at the last minute. With these words and with pleasure, I would like to say that we look forward to the check coming out to the homes around and that the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170427	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170435	Thank you. This is certainly a different pace from in the area of foreigners, where we have been trapped since we had a meeting earlier today. As you know, SF has not been included in the original agreement behind the new property valuation law, as overall we do not think it is ambitious enough. In Denmark, a very large part of our wealth lies in the homes we live in. Looking at the development of housing prices in Denmark, it can be difficult to understand how real estate has increased in the way we have seen over the last 10 years without any significant improvements being made. We have seen examples of how the price of an ordinary house in a single year has increased more than what an average HK earns in a year. The increase in value comes without any work behind it, but it is by no means all Danes who can benefit from it. First of all, it is certainly not everyone in Denmark who can or will not own his own home, and I do not think that in Denmark we should end up in a situation where renting a dwelling is equal to indirect poverty, as the tenant, as we know, does not benefit from the increase in the value of the dwelling. Secondly, the increase in value is quite uneven geographically. It is a few specific geographical areas in Denmark that benefit from the huge value increases that potentially distort our society economically and geographically. Having said that, I fully understand the need for the delay from 2021 to 2024, as the technology must of course be in place first. One thing I have not understood, however, is that the draft law provides for the permanent introduction of further tax reductions. I think that is problematic. The landowners do not need further tax reductions. It is a push towards a Denmark that is out of balance. On the whole, I do not understand why the postponement of the implementation of a new system could lead to tax reductions. Overall, I think it is questionable that no solution can be found where the old model continues until the new system is ready in 2024, without any lasting reductions in taxes. SF cannot support tax reductions for homeowners who in these years are experiencing huge increases in value, and therefore we do not support the proposal. And I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Rune Lund of the Enhedslisten and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170700	What makes me take the floor is when SF says this thing about lowering housing taxes makes a bigger distortion. Let me give you an example. If I, as a former schoolteacher, made about this $400,000, $450,000, and another, my colleague, also earns $400,000, $450,000, and I choose to spend $2.5 million. kr. on a house, and he chooses to spend perhaps 2 million. kr. On a house, am I richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170725	Of course you can set an example of this, but it is basically about how I find it problematic when you make a lot of money on what you can say about the work-free income. Well, it's people who really make money because they own something, and it can distort a society. That is why we in the Socialist People's Party believe that it is essential that we do not reduce the tax on work-free gains.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170752	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170753	So it's a problem to make money from something you own? It also applies to all other things, for example. If you make a good deal on a car, or you have some things that you inherit, and you make money from having had it and passing it on? Is that the fact that you must not make money from having something, a general attitude? A home is a home, a lot of people use it as a home, and if you don't want to give them a right to live there, and they must be shrouded in high taxes, which creates uncertainty for taxes can be lowered and raised, you have to remember that this is a reduction, but they can also be raised without there being an increase in income at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170833-2	I think what is worth remembering here is that value does not arise out of the blue. Value arises by people working and changing nature, creating material value, and therefore there is something fundamentally problematic in when people can earn rushing with money just because they own something. We would rather make money by doing an honest and honest job. It's not that it's always problematic to make money from owning something. It was also a little a list of what I said, but I do not think it is a right way to start to reduce taxes in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170909	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611170917	Thank you, President. When we reached this agreement, our current tax rapporteur, Mona Juul, said: as a conservative, it is hard to be mad when tax returns. If it sounds like a rhyme, it's because Mona really likes rhymes. It comes, of course, from the fact that it has not been right that the tax authorities have not been able to figure out how to guarantee the property owners the tax relief that the settlement circle agreed back in 2017, or, for that matter, have not been able to return the overpaid housing taxes that too many homeowners have paid in the last 10 years. Now the homeowners who have paid too much tax are finally getting their money back, and that's just great. That's 13 billion. kr. that will be sent back tax-free. It is therefore only fair and important that we have confidence in our tax authorities. You have to be able to trust that the taxes you pay are paid correctly. Whether you have invested in your own house or in your apartment, and wherever you live, you must be able to see the outcome of the agreement here and today's bill on the upcoming advance statement. And from 2024 the housing taxes will be lower than what we originally agreed in 2017, because with the agreement here the property owners will have a further permanent tax reduction of 0.5 billion. kr., i.e. a tax reduction which is beyond what had previously been agreed. Specifically, this means that a home owner in a single-family house, for example. Haderslev gets a tax reduction of DKK 4,300. equivalent to 34 per cent. This is due to the fact that in the years to come the rise in the land debt has been more than halved, that the property value tax has been lowered and that neither the promos nor the taxes are increased. We have thus ensured that citizens and businesses will not experience a sudden tax span, and for the next 8 years the municipalities will not be able to raise their ground toll or cover tax. Let me conclude with some fine words that Arne Ullum from NB-Ekonomi wrote immediately after the agreement: this is a significant victory for the bourgeois parties and especially for the Conservatives. So in those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171129	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171137	This is both-and-to tell you the truth. It's a deal New Citizens aren't in, and that's fair enough. There are a large number of really good elements in it, and it corrects some things that need to be corrected. But I would just like to raise a matter of concern about the removal of the right of appeal. I find that worrying, and I think that there is a need for the committee procedure to perhaps get closer to that. I know it's an agreement and that people have of course compensated for it, and I know that it is probably not being changed, but I would certainly like to raise a concern from New Citizens about legal certainty for the citizens out there, partly because of the limitation period, so that you can no longer complain, partly because of the fact that if you accept an offer, you lose the right to complain. It's kind of a pistol-to-be way to do things. We recognise that the system had to be corrected and we recognise that there was a need to draw a line and these things too and move on. Hopefully it will be a system that will work. It's not that. But we're worried about the legal situation in relation to some of what's in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171302	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171308	Thank you. In the years up to 2017, when a new housing tax settlement was made, it was found that housing taxes for houseowners in the larger cities of Denmark in particular just increased and increased for every year. The Fogh Government had probably set up a tax freeze back in 2001, but this only applied to the property value tax. It was possible to increase the blame every year, and it must be said that it did so very, very much. This led to the fact that living in houses in the larger cities in Denmark was much more taxed than living in houses elsewhere and also living in apartments in the larger cities. And it would get even worse if you continued with that housing tax system. That is why it was gratifying that there was a majority in the Folketing who said: 'Oh, I think it is now going too far with this taxation of housing, and now we have to go another way. Therefore, a housing tax agreement was made which would lead to homeowners in, among other things. the larger cities would not experience the large tax increases that were otherwise expected, but on the contrary some tax falls. What then happened when we got a new government it was not this government's fault, but it happened at the same time as we got a new government it had to be found that the IT system could not implement the agreement as early as it had been hoped and that it should instead be postponed to 2024. This would result in a large number of billions being placed in the treasury, which was actually agreed not to be placed in the treasury. The tax minister presented it: that was how it was, and there would be some more money. Then the bourgeois parties went out into the press and said: we can't live with this. And then the tax minister also got the view that he couldn't live with that either. It took less than 24 hours for the bourgeois parties to say that they could not live with it, so that the tax minister also got that point of view. He's a very responsive man, and it's good that in this area he was responsive. So now we've made this deal that leads to this bill, and it has some effects. Let us, for example: take a house in Gentofte, which in 2020 is coated with a total housing tax of 6.2.200 DKK. With what we have agreed here, it will fall from DKK 6.2200. 60,500 kroner. So next year, a drop of nearly 2,000 kroner. Next year already. In 2024 it will be as low as 58,600 kroner. A house in Herlev pays 38.100 DKK. With this deal we've made, next year it's gonna be $7,100. less. And by 2024 it will be 33.700 kroner. For both houses, it would have been more than in 2020 if we had done nothing in 2017 or now. Also houses that are further away from the great capital, for example. a house in Haderslev, experiencing a similar development. The tax in 2020 is DKK 1.2200, and with this agreement it comes down to DKK 11.300. So next year almost a relief of 1,000 kroner. And by 2024 we're down to $1,200. So across the board, homeowners in Denmark will find that they will pay less in tax both next year and in 2024. This is among other things. This is the first time that we have been able to reach agreement on this matter. kr. the economic scope which has been decided upon. Oh, I guess you'd like to spend a lot of money on welfare in the government, but this money now has to go to tax relief instead. Then there is a little less money for welfare, but tax relief is also welfare, you think, just as the blue parties have always thought, so let us also spend some money on private welfare, which comes out of tax relief, by spending money from the economic space. It is rare for us to have so much sense from the government, but we can welcome this and also just say that it is probably also linked to the fact that the government simply does not dare anything else. In other words, if the blue parties were to stand alone and shout for tax cuts, reasonable tax cuts, to the homeowners instead of tax increases, then the Socialists would probably quickly feel that one became a little unpopular, and that is why we have chosen to conduct politics with the bourgeois parties here. Let it be inspiration for another time. There's something you can do more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171815	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611171822	Thank you very much for what one might well call a very positive reception of this bill, which, as several have already said, is about how we can compensate the property owners and tenants for the postponement of the housing tax transfer and then make the last adjustments to the rules for the new owner-occupied housing assessments and, as several have mentioned, the refund scheme. We treat a lot of things in this hall. I do not think it is too much said that when you look at this bill, it is one of the more important matters that we have on the agenda. That is why, frankly, I am very pleased that we have managed to reach such a broad agreement as we have done here. This is crucial for a lot of people when they buy their homes. That is for a great many, including myself, the biggest economic decision one makes in one's life. That is why we must, of course, be sure which tax rules apply. That is why it is also absolutely crucial, as we have written in the conciliation text, for the government and, of course, also for the conciliation parties, to ensure security for homeowners and, above all, calm about housing taxes. And we are, and have been, determined that, although we had to postpone the housing tax rules, which, as I said, are being postponed from 2021 to 2024, it must not have the consequence that housing taxes are increasing. So, frankly, I am very pleased that we have managed to get back together and create the consensus that is needed in the conciliation circle to compensate the landowners and tenants for the return to housing tax later than originally planned. This means additional tax reductions already from 2021 and from 2024 a greater lasting tax relief than provided for in the original agreement. In addition, I am also very pleased that, as the new assessments come out, we can compensate the homeowners who have paid too much in housing tax. We expect a total refund to be made.....holds now fixed............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 13 Finally, this compensation agreement also means that in the conciliation circle of the agreement we reached on 15 May, we agreed that the special protection of tenants in general housing should be continued and that, following the agreement, a pool of 100 million should be set aside. kr. from 2024 to aim to improve the conditions of pensioners living in owner-occupied housing or rented accommodation. Specifically, the draft law means that the property value tax will be relaxed as from 2021 by just over 1 billion. kr. This will benefit the homeowners and will give more impetus to the budget, not least for the new home buyers. In addition, we are also proposing, with the bill, that the ground blame for owner-occupied housing should not increase by more than 2.8%. annual in the years 2022-2024. The same will apply from 2023 for other properties, including rental and cooperative housing. This ensures that the root cause cannot continue to rise up to 7%. Every year, which would have been the case if we had not made this agreement, and it could have left a considerable extra cost with the individual home owner or tenant. On top of that comes the housing tax settlement cancelled the significant increases in the land debt in 2024 that had otherwise been expected. This is of particular benefit to the tenants, since it is only for residential rentals where you pay only ground debts. In addition, it is proposed to set a ceiling on the municipal land tax and the coverage rates so that they will not be increased in the years 2021-2028. It provides security for both the homeowners and the tenants. Finally, it is also proposed to continue the interest-free land tax freeze scheme so that homeowners do not experience fluctuations in the basic debt paid up to the change in housing tax. In addition, there has been a strong desire among the landowners to make the freezing system optional, as I have said. We have also listened to this in the conciliation circle. A bill is therefore being tabled this autumn, as agreed, which will make it possible to opt out or opt out of the freezing system. As I have said, the draft law also takes the final steps to adapt legislation before new property assessments on owner-occupied dwellings can be issued later this year. The draft law contains, among other things: proposals that the resumption of old valuations as from 1 November 2020 be cut off from both the tax administration and property owners. The proposal is necessary to ensure a good start for the new property assessment system and to make it clear to property owners that they do not meet old demands from the authorities. The proposal is also intended to ensure that the tax administration does not have to spend significant resources on these old cases rather than on the new property assessments. The proposal thus supports the possibility for the tax administration to allocate the necessary resources to receive the new property assessments. However, the re-opening does not take place overnight. The proposal envisages that property owners will have the opportunity to turn and ask for a resumption until 1 November 2020. In order for the owners to have an overview of whether it may be relevant for them to ask for a resumption, the tax administration will carry out a general guidance effort over the summer and autumn. In addition, it is proposed to reinstate a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring the best possible administrative base in this whole area of tax administration. This applies, among other things, to: the adjustment of the drawback system. It was agreed, as I said, with the settlement of a new property valuation system, that compensation should be paid to the homeowners who paid tax on excessive valuations in 2011-2020. Overall, the proposals must help to ensure that the scheme can be managed and, of course, also communicated in as simple a way as possible to the benefit of both the tax administration, which is responsible for communication and work with it, but of course also for the individual property owner. However, we still have an outstanding amount in relation to cases where property owners have died during the repayment period. Here there has been a need for the tax administration to examine further how a payment can be made for the year of death. It is expected that legislative proposals can be made for this in autumn 2021, so that the new rules can be adopted before the first offers of compensation are issued. In conclusion, may I not sign for what I have to say has been an extremely good cooperation in the conciliation circle. I can't stress enough how important this bill is. With the agreement on compensation for homeowners and security in the area of housing taxation, we will, of course, in the conciliation circle ensure calm on housing taxes towards the new housing tax, and at the same time we will also have the last pieces in place regarding the legislation on the new property valuations and, of course, also the refund scheme. These are two crucial steps forward towards the restoration of the property area. I look forward, of course, to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am happy to answer any questions which might come from the Folketing in this context. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611172658	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200611172714	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 12 June 2020, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
