ParlaMint-DK_20200618100104	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 202 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. Bill No. L 203 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) and sickness benefit law. Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 66 (What are the Government's expectations of negotiations on the EU Recovery Fund, and why does the Government waive the claims it has previously made in the public domain?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then I would like to point out that we are in the middle of a lot of votes, and that is why I would ask you, in order to help the business secretaries, to remain in place, otherwise it is quite difficult for the business secretaries to manage everything. So I hope we can exercise that discipline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100209	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 88 by Jens Joel (S), Anne Sophie Callesen (RV), Strøjer-Schmidt Strejer-Schmidt (SF), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG). Members who can vote in favour of the motion for a resolution will be asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner) For voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 20 (DF, KF, NB and LA), abstention 22 (V and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 88 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 87 by Marie Krarup (DF), Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen (RV), Hanne Bjørn-Bjørn-Klausen (KF) Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100546	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, indicated way) For voting 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100711	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100730	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner) For voting 87 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 8 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100910	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618100927	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of 80 votes (S, V, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), against 15 votes (DF and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101106	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101118	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. That concludes voting time. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 88 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 7 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101304	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101319	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101500	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). For the vote 57 (S, V, KF and LA), against 38 (DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101757	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618101815	Thank you, President. We are dealing with a further relaxation of foreign policy here today, which is linked to the amount of relaxation that the government has undertaken since the parliamentary elections last year, and of course we in the Danish People's Party are voting against it. However, that is not really what makes me speak, because we have discussed the substance of the matter in depth at both the first and the second readings. No, what makes me speak is the kind call that begged in late yesterday afternoon to support a referendum on L 186 in accordance with the procedures laid down in Paragraph 42 of the Constitution. I think that is a good idea; especially when you are out in these continuous promises, I think it is a very good idea to ask the people if that is what they want. But that is not really what makes me speak either. What makes me speak is the possibility of asking the author of the referendum how it is actually going to solve immigration policy from the bottom up. Now, for several years now, from New Citizens, we have heard criticism that the Danish People's Party did not do well enough in the previous period and period before, and that the 150 tightenings, the closed limit, the times we challenged the international conventions etc. etc., was not good enough. And there is no doubt about that at all, because there is a great deal that still needs to be corrected. But now I think this is the third time that new citizens have proposed a referendum on the easing of foreign policy, and that is fine. This will then also be the third time that New Citizens get 20 signatures for their business, and that is a little when what the Basic Law prescribes is that you have to have 60. That is why there is only reason to ask: how is the foreign policy to be resolved from scratch? Because I really think things are going quite badly. So, I would be tempted to say that things are going considerably worse than they were for the Danish People's Party in the previous period, when one cannot even get a minority in the bourgeois bloc to back up the increasingly desperate project that one apparently has, namely to make a PR stunt out of section 42 of the Constitution. That is why I just want to hear the new citizens who are here in this Chamber: how is it going to solve immigration policy from scratch?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102046	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. There are no brief comments, but the word goes on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102053	Thank you very much and thank you very much for reminding us that we have again activated section 42 of the Constitution for allowing the voice of the Danes to be heard. Because when the government relaxes foreign policy, even if a majority of the Danes wanted a strict foreign policy, we must also put it to the Danes to vote on whether they want these relaxations or not. I do not fully understand the attack that comes from the Danish People's Party, because in New Citizens we are actually very happy that the Danish People's Party also supports the activation of section 42 of the Constitution. We have activated it again; we do so every time politicians relax foreign policy, and we continue to do so. We are fighting hard for this, so I also hope that there are more of the bourgeois parties. It could be that several of the so-called nominal civil parties would actually support what they said in the election campaign and sign it. We need 60 signatures, and if you mean what was said in the election campaign that foreign policy should not be relaxed, then of course you have to sign this and let the voice of the people be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102208	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmide. I hope we can just figure out how to pass each other here. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102215	Thank you, President. There is something here that Mrs Mette Thiesen has completely misunderstood. Mrs Mette Thiesen has not activated Paragraph 42 of the Constitution because it requires 60 signatures. Mrs Mette Thiesen has exhibited her own and her party's total incompetence, and by constantly exhibiting her incompetence it is emphasized and shows what a total bluff New Citizens is, because New Citizens have not managed to change a comma in foreign policy, not once have the rules been tightened. On the contrary, since New Citizens have joined the Danish Parliament, it has gone the wrong way, and all you can do is send emails around and ask if not enough will help activate § 42. But they don't want to. That's what we've been trying to tell you, Mrs. Mette Thiesen. We have tried to explain how much a struggle it is actually to tighten up the immigration policy, how much a struggle it is actually to put right this ship, which we call our homeland. Perhaps it is beginning to seep into New Citizens too that if you want to have influence, it is not just about standing and holding bang speeches and sending e-mails around, you know to be discarded from the bourgeois colleagues, but about actually negotiating. It would be nice to have that realization.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102325	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102326	I don't know how much to say about this. This is another very strange attempt to attack someone who actually does something. Now you have been in the Danish People's Party for extremely many years as a support party for a bourgeois government, too, a bourgeois government that in 2015 totally failed and the Danish People's Party held hands under it. New citizens have now arrived, and we are doing what we said before the elections, because we do not want to accept any relaxations in foreign policy, and that is why we want to activate section 42 of the Constitution, and that is what we have reached out for. We are reaching out to the bourgeois politicians, but in fact also to the Social Democratic Party, those who actually felt before the elections that the policy of foreigners would not be relaxed. The bourgeois politicians who stood in the election campaign and said that they would not agree to concessions in foreign policy now have the opportunity to sign and to let the voice of the people be heard. That's kind of just what we're asking for. I do not know how else to deal with the small perfide attacks by the Danish People's Party, as I think that they bear witness to something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102435	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102442	I certainly hope that Mrs Mette Thiesen does not hold her back. I would very much like to know what kind of perfidities she sees in my attack. In fact, I would very much like to understand what Mrs Mette Thiesen is really thinking about what her imagination is. She has so far found that there are 20 people who will hold a referendum on this proposal. She has found that there are 20 votes every time the Danish People's Party or NB proposes to tighten the immigration policy. 20, that's it! And I assume that Mrs Mette Thiesen is then informed that 70 are missing to get her policy through. Yet all we get is e-mails a late afternoon from Mrs Pernille Vermund, if not well we will sign. But there is nothing new in this, Mrs Mette Thiesen, and that is why we have to get into the game and be honest. Is New Citizens a bluff, or is it actually a party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102523	Time's up. Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102527	I don't really know what to say about this. We have thus stretched out our hand, and we are very happy to cooperate with the Danish People's Party. I think this is more a form of desperation, and I have no further comment to make on that. We are trying to do what we have said all the time, and we are keeping our promises, and that also means that every time the government wants to relax foreign policy, we activate section 42 of the Constitution. We have reached out our hand, and we are glad that the Danish People's Party is backing up, but these petty attacks bear witness to something quite different, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102605	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102610	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I ask you to stay inside the Chamber. I have a feeling you're about to be in place. That's it. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102832	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618102848	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103040	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103102	We have tabled an amendment to this motion for a resolution in order to tighten up what is the intention behind this, namely that subsidies should not, of course, be given to Muslim free schools. That is why we have tabled an amendment on which we are going to vote now, which, as such, is all about adding to the text contained in the motion for a resolution: 'or is based on Islamic values'. So it was really just a little information. I hope, of course, that it will be backed up; that is what was actually the whole intention of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103145	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103152	Thank you for the floor. This amendment is a bit of a parade proposal. It can be said that what we have in our resolution, on which we shall vote afterwards, is precisely about ensuring that integration works and that integration is not countered. What I welcome in this context is that we have subsequently received the Minister for Justice's assessment of the proposal, which says right now that it is not contrary to the basic law, which was otherwise assessed two years ago. We have no problem adding the words Islamic values to this, which is why we can easily vote in favour of the amendment, but the problem is that it then makes the proposal itself more problematic. We'd like to get something through. In fact, we would like to see something implemented in here, and that is why we hope subsequently that our resolution can be supported, but we also support the amendment as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103303	Thank you. There are no requests for short remarks, which is why we are now moving on to the vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103312	Amendment No 1 is not accepted. 1 outside the report by Mrs Mette Thiesen (NB). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against voting 77 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 7 (EL). The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103533	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103540	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103729	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103744	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). For the vote 8 (DF), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), abstention 3 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618103949	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104007	Thank you, President. The reason why I am going to take the floor briefly is that I will say that here in a moment when we are going to vote on the proposals of the New Citizens' Party, I am going to stand up and vote yes. Although this is a proposal from a party with which I am fundamentally ideologically opposed, I would say that they have so far found a grain. Of course, we believe that parents should be able to say that their children should go to school one year later if they consider that their child should not be the youngest in the class throughout primary school. I am sure that there are many who know that it can be hard for a child who is perhaps already a little immature, age-wise to have to lag behind the other pupils socially and perhaps also professionally through a whole school period. So it is clear that we are voting in favour of this. This motion for a resolution is one to the same as a proposal which I myself helped to make a few years ago. I am not saying that New Citizens have copied it, because I think it is obvious to be able to see that it is super good to give parents the freedom to say for themselves that their child is going to school one year later. So we want to give that freedom to the parents, and that's why I'm just past the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104138	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104145	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That makes me say that this is the last vote today. Thank you for a thorough, very fine discipline. I can now reassure Members that next week, in addition to the fact that there may be a late vote on Monday on the agenda, we have two days left: Tuesday and Thursday. If we can have the same discipline, everything will be fine. Now all we need is the outcome of the last vote here today. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 5 (NB, ALT and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. I will now give those Members who do not wish to take part in the further negotiations the opportunity to leave the Chamber in good order. We will now continue the negotiations, and that is why I am asking for calm in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104519	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104546	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104602	Thank you. Denmark is in the process of a gradual reopening where we are all coming back to a normal everyday life. We've been looking forward to it, and it's really good. When we reopen, the temporary financial compensation schemes, including the wage compensation scheme, will also automatically expire. It's perfectly natural. But we must also say that they have been necessary and they have worked. The wage compensation scheme has helped to hold hands under more than 200,000 Danish jobs. So there are 200,000 Danes who have kept their jobs for a few months, when the alternative was a light-off note. According to a fairly comprehensive study, where Danish and foreign researchers have mapped out the effect of the wage compensation scheme that came on weekends, it turns out that 81,000 have avoided being fired because of this scheme. I'm not saying we're avoiding any more layoffs in the future. I am simply saying that these packages have made a difference. We have done so together with the social partners, and we have done so across all parties here in the Folketing. I think we should thank each other very much for that. It's been super important. But I also believe that we must make it clear that there will still be some companies that will continue to be affected by the temporary decommissioning of Denmark. This is why it is now proposed to phase out the temporary compensation scheme gradually, so that it is extended from 9 July to 29 August, when the remaining leave is required for the period, up to a maximum of 15 days' leave. This would mean that this bill would allow companies that have been granted an extension of the scheme to give notice of holidays at shorter notice than usual. I expect, however, that we will try to reach agreement at the Danish workplaces, as has always been done. The Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104800	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104805	I would like to put a question to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: If the wage compensation scheme is such a good idea to prevent unemployment in Denmark, why should it actually stop on 29 August? It is therefore always a good idea to stop unemployment and, if the wage compensation scheme is really good at it, why ever stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104826	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104828	It is actually strange to have such a question when everyone in this country knows that we have been in a very special situation with covid-19, and when we have all stood together to find the aid packages that were needed to help both companies and ordinary people who were in danger of losing their jobs. It's temporary because we have to go through this situation as quickly as possible. We must ensure that as few companies as possible close down. We must ensure that as many jobs as possible are taken care of. Therefore, this question puzzles me and that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen cannot see that it is of course a temporary arrangement. That is what we have said over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104906	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104909	But it's just interesting that if it's so amazing, then it's ever gonna have to stop. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen could have consulted the experts that the government asked to provide an answer on what to do with this wage compensation scheme. They tell of all the negative effects of a wage compensation scheme like this, namely that it prevents people from finding the work where they are needed, rather than staying in a job where they are no longer needed. That's the problem with it. That is why the experts, as the government itself has asked to comment on it, recommend that the wage compensation scheme should end on 8 July.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104947	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618104948	It's great that we have the Liberal Alliance that listens to experts and everything else. We have to do the same. But I also listen to those 200,000 Danes who have been close to their workplace and who have had their salary for 2-3 months instead of being fired. I'm listening to the 81,000 people who might be avoiding a layoff because of this. So unlike the Liberal Alliance, I'm listening to the people, but there's a difference between these two parties and me and Mr. Thompson. Ole Birk Olesen. That's the way it is. We're different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105015	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and then we go on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105025	Thank you. Although the sun shines and summer has come to Denmark, the labour market and companies are still in a serious and very cloudy situation. The closure of society has had major economic consequences for both companies and employees, and when the corona crisis was at its peak, we came to the rescue of the badly needed companies. A bailout was thrown into the sea and the tripartite agreement on temporary compensation for wages emerged. The tripartite agreement has helped to keep hands on many employees and companies, as the companies were able to cover part of the salary of the employees. This has meant that employers got a helping hand in a sudden chaotic and unpredictable everyday life, and despite the partial reopening of society and a number of relief packages and agreements there are still people and companies who are financially challenged. In the coming time, we must look forward and focus on how best to get the labour market back on track and to help businesses move forward in the best way possible. It is also a question of hopefully opening up Denmark again. This bill requires employees covered by the wage compensation scheme during the period from 9 July to 29 August to settle remaining holidays. This will help some of the companies that are still hard hit, and the period extends over the industrial holidays, where many of the companies are already closed regardless of corona or not. It is therefore very obvious that employees are taking their holidays during this period, and that is why the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105228	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105232	Thank you. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. It costs to extend the wage compensation scheme until 29 August. The Left cannot think of other things like 2.2 billion. kr. could be used better than to pay 90%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105258	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105301	There can certainly be proposals where we can spend that money in a different way. It is not the case that we in the Left cannot see this this thistle. In other words, the wage compensation scheme has been a system in which, as a company, even if you pay part of your employee's salary, you have not been able to apply it, so you have not been able to use the employee for a period of time for the hours you actually pay for. So yes, we can discuss, and we are also doing so, whether there are other ways in which we can keep our hands under the labour market. But now that a tripartite agreement has been drawn up, we think that, in relation to this draft law, we will support ensuring that the holidays that are needed for the company to be able to move forward are also taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105349	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105351	Fortunately, it is not the case that the government can agree with employees and employers that the Treasury should be opened. After all, it is the Folketing that decides that the 2.2 billion should be given. kr. to this; it's the Left that helps to determine it. I can tell you that 2.2 billion. kr. covers two thirds of the cost of making the motorway to Frederikssund. Wouldn't it have been better to get the construction of the motorway to Frederikssund instead of spending the money on paying 90 percent? Of the payroll for people who go home and do nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105425	Now Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen is very well aware that there is a difference between the operating costs we have in connection with this and the plant resources which we hope will soon be able to put pressure on the government to start distributing, among other things. to a highway all the way to Frederikssund. So in relation to the wage compensation agreement, we support the agreement and we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105447	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105455	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party naturally agrees to this proposal. Because if you look at how the system works with companies that receive compensation for wages and employees who have been sent home on compensation for wages, it is at least the Danish People's Party's assessment and perhaps the Minister can confirm that if this proposal is not adopted, companies cannot send their employees home on holiday because they receive compensation for wages. Therefore, it must be possible for them to interrupt compensation and send their employees on vacation, so that they can take holidays and also travel abroad when otherwise the borders are opened a little more. Therefore, as the Danish People's Party sees it, this is actually a very important proposal to ensure that employees who have been sent home on pay compensation can also take the 15 holiday days, otherwise it will cause a lot of problems. After all, the rules are that if the employees get vacation and leave the company for the 15 days, the company will actually lose the wage compensation, also afterwards, when they have finished taking vacation, as I immediately see it. I fully understand that there is a legislative proposal to ensure that employees are allowed to take the 15 holiday days they have and that companies can then take it easy and say: okay, we have not lost the wage compensation; we will get it when they return and have finished their holidays; then we will be back on the pay compensation system. So the Danish People's Party can of course support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105647	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105659	Thank you. As society is returning to normal conditions, a phasing out of temporary compensation is also appropriate, however, for a gradual phasing-out. This means that the compensation scheme will be extended from 8 July until 29 August. This bill calls for employees to leave the remaining holiday, and we think that is quite reasonable when the period of compensation for wages is extended over the summer vacation. Unfortunately, I do not think that the temporary extension here is going to ensure that all people on wage compensation return to a job, and therefore it is also important that we look forward and have a look to create jobs and upgrade to the jobs that are today. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105801	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105812	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am here on behalf of my colleague Karsten Hønge, who is otherwise an employment rapporteur but who unfortunately could not be here. The draft law translates that part of the tripartite agreement on the gradual phasing-out of the temporary wage compensation scheme, which deals with the winding-up of the remaining holiday in the light of the extended possibility of wage compensation. Thus, the draft law proposes that an employer who applies for compensation for an employee's salary may give notice to the employee to hold the holiday at short notice during the period during which the employer applies for compensation for the employee's salary during the extended period from 9 July to 29 August, but only for up to 15 days and only if the employee has earned the holiday allowance under the Vacation Act. The employer will also be able to change the previous leave of a staff member in the event of compensation for salary during the said period. As I said, this is a tripartite agreement which the social partners naturally support, and so does the SF. The SF can therefore support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105929	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618105937	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing how incredibly important the agreement on the extension of wage compensation is for employees. It means that more than 100,000 families can survive economically over the summer, but when it ends at the end of August, tens of thousands will probably be unemployed. After all, the unemployed have still not received either corona supplement or other financial security. The Enhedslisten won't let go until it's resolved. But when I highlight it, it is related to the seriousness of the situation. It is about people and families' lives, which is why we also need to be extra thorough and especially when we, as Parliament, intervene in such things as summer holidays with urgent legislation. A lot has already been uncertain during this period, and a lot has been cancelled, which is why the holiday will be extra important to calm down this year. We support the agreement that three weeks' holiday should be taken during the period of compensation for wages, but we would like to be absolutely sure that the individual employee and his family also have rights, for example. guarantees that an already fixed holiday period cannot or must be moved, that families with children can take their holidays during school holidays and that this is an agreement between the employee and the employer, i.e. that it is not a dictation from the employer. We have asked a number of questions about this in order to avoid uncertainty about the interpretation at work. For example, if work resumes in the middle of the period, and if the company resumes work, it is likely that the holiday will be interrupted. However, we have asked such questions and expect to be clarified before we go to the final reading of the proposal. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110117	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110126	In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that we must do what we can to save as many companies and jobs as possible during the Corona crisis. There will simply be too many incalculable consequences if the Danes become unemployed and self-employed have to shut down their life's work. The amount of unhappy fates in the labour market must and must be reduced with particular due care in the context of the corona crisis. That is why we have among other things. adopted wage compensation schemes to save businesses and jobs. It must be easy for employers to give a vacation warning, because it can be a means by which companies can avoid firing employees, as they can go on holiday instead, and the decision to resign can be kicked to the corner. Denmark's economy is opening up more and more, but there is reason to keep our hands on the employees and companies to a certain extent until we reach the late summer. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110228	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110232	This bill, where the Conservative People's Party supports spending 2.2 billion. kr. to pay 90%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. kr. By way of comparison, I can tell you that it costs 1.8 billion. kr. Getting the highway all the way to Kalundborg. Why is it better to pay 2.2 billion? kr. to pay people for nothing but getting the motorway to Kalundborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110306	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110310	Well, this is about saving some jobs, it's about saving some companies. The questioner also asked the rapporteur on motorways about it. This is about something quite different from the construction money that's going to be used for highways and bridges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110323	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110325	It is not quite anything else; it is state money, and it can be used one way or it can be used the other way. You can also spend 1.5 billion. kr. to create a motorway between Næstved and Rønnede, but it has been chosen here that it is more important to spend 2.2 billion. kr. to pay people for not doing anything 90 percent. of their salary. Why is that a good idea? In other words, at all times jobs can be saved by paying companies to keep employees, even if companies do not need employees. Why is it a good idea to do so now rather than, for example, to do so? Making a highway between Næstved and Rønnede?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110355	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110358	Well, this isn't about highways, it's about us being in the middle of a corona crisis. It is about jobs, it is about businesses, and what is being said now is like mixing apples and pears together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110412	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is probably Mr. Ole Birk Olesen for the Liberal Alliance. For Mr. Alex Vanopslagh isn't here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110432	Thank you. It's always a good idea to listen to people who are smarter than you. That doesn't mean you can't do anything else than the smart ones say. Because sometimes you can simply have a different policy. The wise can, for example. I think that housing taxes should be enormously high, and then, as a party, one can say: we just mean something else here, we think it is unreasonable that housing taxes should be so high. So you can, and you can mean something else. Yet: The government has set up an expert panel of three of the wisest economists in Denmark and asked them: How do you think we should get out of the corona crisis and all these aid packages? And the answer has been: stop this wage compensation scheme as soon as possible, on July 8, because it does damage. It immerses like the Danish business community in a freezer. Where people are employed today, they will continue to be employed, now with wages from the state for 90 percent, instead of there being sound considerations as to whether to stay in the industry you should stay in that job or to find another place where you can do more good with your work rather than go home and then get pay compensation from the state. The three experts put together by the government, because the government thought they were the smartest in this area, believe that we should stop on 8 July. Nevertheless, the government and a majority in the Folketing believe that for almost two more months, until 29 August, we must continue to pay companies 90%. of the wages of employees who do nothing, and it is not the case that companies can choose to say that they might be able to do a little in the company. No, you can only get this money if you promise on faith and promise that those employees aren't doing anything. It is the condition for getting the money that they do nothing. We're not paying people to have a job, we're paying people not to make an effort with this pay compensation scheme, and that's, at the same time, Denmark's starting to flourish again. The Danes have saved a lot of money during the corona closure, where you have sat at home and rolled your thumbs, and now the sun shines, and we have been allowed to live again. The sidewalk cafes are filled up, the restaurants report increased turnover in many cases compared to the same time last year, you've started hiring artisans again. It's not because it's been crazy deep down during the corona crisis, but it's up again, you buy kitchens, you buy ice cream, you're about to take a vacation here in Denmark with all the income that it will mean for tourist companies that are not used to having so many Danes around you from the past, and then it's said: We're just going to go on anyway, because it asks DI for that, and the trade union movement wants it, and yes, it's 2.2 billion. kr. What the hell, it's just money. No, it is not just money, and it is true that it is a one-off expenditure, but it is also a one-off expenditure, for example. to build some important transport infrastructure. You could have done that instead. I have mentioned some projects here that have penetrated for many years, motorway projects where people are queued when they go to work and are queued when they go home again, a one-off cost that you could spend this money on. But the majority in the Folketing say. No, no, it's much more important that we pay 90%. of people's salary for almost 2 months more, instead of getting a highway all the way to Frederikssund or to Kalundborg or around Aarhus or between Næstved and Rønnede or south about Odense; we'd rather spend this money paying 90 percent. of people's wages for not doing anything. I think that is a completely wrong priority. I think this compensation scheme is stupid and superfluous, and I think we could spend it on many other one-off costs much, much better. The Liberal Alliance is voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110859	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618110904	Thank you. I think that is quite a message, because I should like to say hello to a number of people in Frederikshavn who are employed in the offshore industry, where they have a lack of orders and who have been sent home on these schemes. They have been promised to be associated with the company. The alternative was that they had been made directly redundant and sent home on cash benefits, and then they had lost their ties with the employer. 'Cause they can't just go back to work. There are also very many other places where the alternative was that they had been dismissed and had gone on to the daily allowance, which the State also pays. But Mr. Ole Birk Olesen believes that the money should be used to make highways. They can't all do that. But is it not fantastic to hear the Liberal Alliance say that it would actually rather have companies shut down and lose association with the workers than pay compensation? Then companies will actually have to sail their own lake, because those workers can just lay off and send over to the daily allowance, and then they will have to see if they have anything to do. When many of the employees are sent home on pay compensation, it is because you have not had enough orders to keep them. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted). That's the problem. Unfortunately, there is no more speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111009	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111015	But it happens every day of the year, even when there is no corona, that there are companies that have to decide to shut down temporarily, either because they are very seasonal companies or because they have been hit by some challenge in the markets on which they are located. It is, after all, an everyday phenomenon that there are people who have to find other jobs. Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted's argument suggests that we should have a wage compensation scheme forever, for what Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that the wage compensation scheme is doing so well, namely, keeping people in their position while their labour is not needed, also applies in six months' time. And it is also in five years' time, and it is also in ten years' time, that a wage compensation scheme would be able to do so. August, when it's so amazing an invention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111105	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111108	Yes, we can always discuss whether there should have been a month more or less. Now it has been extended until August, and the Danish People's Party is out of that agreement. But in the time it has been so far here, we have to recognise that it has been a good help for companies to survive and that it has been a good help for employees. They know they're not just thrown out on cash benefits. Because they haven't had a lot of places they could go looking for jobs here during the crisis. So we can always discuss: is it right to extend it until 31 August? We can always discuss that. It may have stopped there until August 1st. However, the compensation as such has ensured that there are many companies that can survive and that they are ready when production gets started again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111145	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111147	Let us now imagine that the Danish slaughterhouses are losing the opportunity to sell pigs in China because China has some new policy and is afraid that some kind of infection will come from Denmark. Should we then invent a wage compensation scheme for that too? Why should this one exception be made for offshore companies in North Jutland, which say that because of corona they have an order decline? After all, it is something that happens every week, every month, every year, that there are companies that have temporarily reduced orders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111234	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and many thanks to the rapporteurs for their comments. I am glad that we can again do urgent treatment in this important area. We are well in the process of reopening society, and the government is working hard to ensure that the corona outbreak harms our society as little as possible. Although we have control over the covid-19, several industries will continue to have difficulty, which is why it is important that we have companies and employees in the best way possible over the coming period with the economic uncertainty that the decommissioning of Denmark has brought with it. Therefore, on 15 June 2020, the government and the social partners have concluded a tripartite agreement on the gradual phasing-out of the temporary wage compensation scheme. With the agreement, we have decided, together with the social partners, to extend the wage compensation scheme until the end of August. I am pleased that we can continue to keep our hands on the employees and companies affected by the corona crisis. The tripartite agreement, which we concluded in March, on a temporary wage compensation scheme, has helped to hold hands under more than 29 000 companies, which have been financially under pressure during the Corona crisis. The hand has been held under more than 230,000 employees in their current job and with their full pay during that period. During the reopening, some companies will continue to be affected by the temporary closure of Denmark, and therefore the recent extension of the scheme is also very important. As Minister for Employment, I am once again particularly pleased that the social partners take responsibility and show their social spirit. When the crisis hits Danish society, it is always crucial that you are able to take rapid decisions and that it has once again been possible for the parties to reach agreement on an agreement. With the latest extension of the wage compensation scheme, it is possible to seek wage compensation up to and including 29 August 2020. The extended period extends over the industrial holidays and therefore requires employees covered by the scheme to complete the remaining leave, with a maximum of 15 days' leave. There may be employees who have not yet agreed on summer holidays and there may be employees if already agreed holidays are not fully placed on days of the extended wage compensation scheme after 9 July. The draft law that we have just examined ensures that employers covered by the wage compensation scheme are given the opportunity to give a short notice of vacation so that the holiday can be kept during the extended pay compensation period. If the holiday has already been announced, it will be possible to change the holiday. It is, however, my clear expectation that there will be a long way to go in the workplace to get both employees' and companies' plans for the summer to meet in the best possible way. The law comes into force as soon as possible and I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111527	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111531	My question is very brief: what is the reason why it is not a good idea to continue with the wage compensation scheme after 29 August?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111542	Well, the very short answer is that the wage compensation scheme, like a large number of the other aid packages that have been agreed, is an expression of the fact that I believe that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also said a little himself that we have been in an extraordinary situation with a world crisis, a global pandemic that doesn't just show up from time to time, and if just we've only seen late 1918 during the Spanish flu. It has brought down the world economy, including Denmark's economy, and there has been a need to freeze the state of both the labour market and the economy for a period of time and keep so much running in order to preserve as many Danes as possible in work. Now we have agreed to extend it over the industrial holidays, and at the same time it includes the taking of holidays. We think that is the right way to phase it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111633	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111637	After all, there are a number of good reasons not to continue with the wage compensation scheme after 29 August, and those reasons also apply before 29 August, namely that it maintains people in employment somewhere where they are not really needed, rather than finding a new job somewhere where they are needed. That is why the government is in favour of abolishing the wage compensation scheme on 29 August. I just wanted to know if I could get the Minister to say that that cost also exists before 29 August.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111705	Basically, I believe that the wage compensation scheme and a number of the other aid packages, but in particular the wage compensation scheme, have been a very, very good investment. It is a good investment to secure industries that otherwise have no other challenges than that there is someone somewhere out in the world who has eaten a bat, and that on that basis has developed a very, very harmful virus. I believe that we can also look at the key figures so far, that right now Denmark has the prospect of doing better through this corona crisis economically than a number of other countries, and that in this respect we have retained more than 200,000 people's work at full pay during that period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111740	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111808	The debate is open. Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618111817	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the SF for raising a very important issue. In fact, one of the first things I did, when I took over the position of climate minister, was to ask for an analysis of the situation with biomass in Denmark, because for many years I actually thought that there was something fundamentally wrong with the way biomass was viewed. I still think there is. It is also clear that biomass has in many cases been used and is still used to phase out fossil fuels such as coal and gas, and that is why I would like to stress that what I am saying here should not be regarded as a criticism of the politicians in this matter, who have made very ambitious climate agreements in the past and who, each time they have made them, have been called some of the world's most ambitious, as I think they have been. These agreements have committed themselves to biomass to a degree that we regard today as a little more problematic than was done at the time, but if we have done so at that time by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, it is probably because at that time we have not had the same knowledge as we have today, but first and foremost it has been because it was about solving a much, much larger problem, namely phasing out coal. In this light, I also think that biomass can be used and should be used, and it makes sense to use biomass, especially if it can be used during a transitional period, with the aim of replacing it with more sustainable alternatives in the future. On the very specific proposal, I would like to say that some of what came out of the analysis I asked for was, of course, black and white to emphasise that we have problems in Denmark too. This is a problem that is particularly linked to the fact that we import a large part of the biomass used, and that is why we need to do something. We must be careful to make legislation on the basis of individual examples, but I think that most people will agree with me that there have been so many examples now that some of the actors who use biomass in Denmark today have not been able to explain to a large extent enough that the requirements that they have set themselves in a voluntary trade agreement have actually been met. This combined means that we have to act, and that is why the government has proposed that we introduce statutory sustainability requirements for the biomass we use in this country. Of course, these are also requirements that must apply to imported biomass. We think this is a better solution than the one proposed by the SF. There are certification schemes already in place globally, and I think we should take advantage of them, because I also think it is important that there is a congruence and coherence in relation to what is used across borders, so to make a specific Danish scheme I do not think is the way to go, but vice versa I would say that it is also not a way to go about the current situation. There is an industry agreement and EU legislation is in the process of being implemented, but neither is good enough, in the opinion of the government. Therefore, in the context of the negotiations currently under way on a climate plan, we will also propose that the certification of biomass should be included, in the sense that it is necessary to show certification for its biomass, but thus also to demonstrate that the stringent requirements that we intend to impose are met. And the demands we are going to make are therefore demands that go beyond the current trade agreement. They do this in themselves by becoming statutory, but in addition to that they also do so in a substantial way, and they also go further than the EU directive that needs to be implemented in the foreseeable future. We imagine that the requirements must contain at least five criteria: trees must be legally felled; harvested trees must be replanted; nature areas must be protected and biodiversity must be taken into account; forest carbon stocks and carbon sinks must be maintained; and emissions in the production chain must be kept at a very low level. I think that is quite in line with what the SF has said, but other parties are also necessary, but if that is not the case, I am very happy to listen to constructive contributions and I am very much looking forward to the negotiations. I think it is important that we in Denmark are able to address climate issues, even when they are difficult, even when they do not help us to achieve our 70-percent target, because it is clear that one of the dangers of setting ourselves as ambitious targets as we have done on the 70% is that it will be so difficult to achieve that one might have a tendency to allocate all resources, all energy in that direction and then perhaps forget a few other things. I am not saying that this is what has happened on biomass, but I say that we were probably in danger of it happening on biomass, so it has therefore been important for the government to say that, despite the fact that it is not going to help us achieve the 70-percent target, we have to do something about that area if we are to be a pioneer country, and we want to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112440	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112448	I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that I welcome the SF's motion for a resolution here in a generous manner. It is also a message that had to be sent to all the rapporteurs, and we have put it around so that we could then discuss what should then be in a certification scheme. What has been crucial for the SF is that we get an agreement here, if there is support for it, that we have to have a statutory certification system and that it should apply both from the large works to the pill lighthouse at home. and Mrs Jensen. I would like to ask the Minister something in the report he has asked his own ministry to draw up. Because it says quite specifically that in terms of achieving sustainability, the amount of solid biomass we consume here in Denmark also plays a role, in addition to of course all the other elements, i.e. type, forest management, market and time. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he also believes that there is a need to look, alongside this certification, at the total consumption of wood for energy purposes here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112550	Of course, the amount matters, but it is clear that what type of biomass you use is most important. I mean, like... the use of wood chips as a waste product from timber production can be quite reasonable. It is also clear that if you look at so-called negative emissions, that is to say that at some point we have to have a situation where we connect CCS technology with biomass plants, then we actually have to find a method to pull CO2 You use biomass that is good in the relatively short term, it burns off, pulls CO2 In this situation we don't want biomass completely phased out there we actually need biomass as an active tool. So it is a nuanced discussion. But of course it is clear that everything else equal is easier to solve the biodiversity and climate problems that may be, in addition to the others I also mentioned in my speech, if the total amount is reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112647	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112650	I am just glad that the Minister emphasizes this. It is not because we imagine that one can be completely free from wood-based biomass simply because some investments have been made and because it is a matter of what we have to switch in with. But this very thing about bringing down the crowd and getting a plan for this and getting a direction in energy policy is, of course, crucial to the investments that are being made, from the citizens at home, who choose a source of heating themselves, to the large investments in the power plants. So do I understand correctly when I hear the Minister say that we should look at bringing the crowd down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112727	Yeah, that's right. But I would also like to clarify it by saying that there are quite a lot of complications about this. Now we have just reached a common agreement to ensure that we burn off less waste, i.e. less plastic. But, okay, well, there's got to be some alternatives to that. In some places we will probably be tempted to use biomass, and that is where we will have to try to create the incentives and even regulatory frameworks that will make it more likely to choose other alternatives. And then, for all things in the world, we must not get into the situation of phasing out biomass in some places where it is then replaced with something worse, namely coal or gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112758	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112802	Around this certification of biomass, which the Minister is now proposing to be better than the voluntary scheme, as there is now, since it is apparently the intention of the government to do something different from the SF's proposal, I would say that I think it is good that we have to deal with more critically and more differentiated biomass. So you can say: what is it then that certification can be used for afterwards? Well, you can have some district heating plants that say: Well, we give priority to something that is best and that may be a little more expensive. But a good certification could also be the basis for a CO 2 being introduced at a later stage. I am well aware that the government has not yet come to be for a CO 2 Can the Minister not see that this certification could be the first step towards getting a CO2 tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112911	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618112916	I feel a certain déjà vu because every time I'm on this platform these days, and no matter what we have to discuss, there are people who want me to impose a tax on something. We consider taxation to be a means to use. We are currently debating electric heating charges that we would like to see reduced and on space heating charges that we would like to see up, and we will of course take that along with us, and we will, of course, also discuss a biomass tax in the future. I'm sure of it. But I would just like to warn against it being regarded as the only tool. Perhaps I would have liked, and perhaps it is also too much to ask that you just dwell for a moment on what I actually said in my speech: now there will be legal requirements if it is up to us to have a majority in the Folketing, and I wonder if we can find it on biomass sustainability. That is a hugely positive thing, which is also an open invitation from me to you to make good suggestions on how we could do it. So, with all due respect to Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen, should we not discuss the other things we disagree on at a slightly different time, and then focus on what we agree on here and now and which should therefore be negotiated here in the future before the summer break. Because I think it can actually help make a real difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113020	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113023	Now the Minister mentioned five things that will be included in that certification, and there is then a sixth point that the Minister did not have, and that is the transport of the biomass, which I think is also an important aspect. Because if you look at what is being imported into Denmark, then it is among other things. wood pellets from the United States. The heat in Randers has been from something imported from all over Africa for a long time, and I think it is right that transport should also be taken in. Does the Minister not think it should also be included in the certification?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113049	In any case, we are prepared to look at the emissions in the production chain and how far it can be stretched out and what it may cause from problems in order to verify it. That is one of the things we need to discuss. So, from our point of view, there is of course no interest in the fact that we should not make a scheme that is so fair in relation to global CO2 That is clear. That technical problems can then arise with how to do it or that there are things that are easier, we must take care of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113122	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, the Conservative People's Party, and then we should not use direct indictments against the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113135	I heard the Minister say that biomass must not be phased out in such a way that we then stuck to gas and coal. Some time ago, we had a hearing in the Landstingshall on biomass and resources in general for energy, where a number of experts took part and where this was made clear by, among others, one of them. a U.S. representative that biomass has a much larger CO2 We are currently very, very busy phasing out natural gas by 2025. For me, it is a little strange when we know and learn more and more about the biomass CO2 So I just want to ask the Minister: why are we so busy phasing out natural gas when we have a biomass that has a larger emissions on the same amount of energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113250	That's because we need to get rid of both. That's because we're heading for a CO2 and that's also true, even if you could find a theoretical example where biomass was actually better than gas. This would probably be possible, even if it would not apply to all forms of biomass, but some forms of biomass are self-evident. Even with that scenario, I do not think it is such a very long-lasting solution to start turning a biomass solution into a natural gas solution. It is a little bit to move from one fossil fuel, coal or oil, to another, namely natural gas. In other words, when we are going to phase out biomass, I would hope that we can find opportunities that are even more sustainable. That is also what I am watching very clearly. Fortunately, the strategy is mostly in Denmark when it comes to making decisions, most of which are taken at local level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113340	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113344	I do not have it as a religion, and it is not the case that it is more important for me to have natural gas phased out and then hold onto an energy form such as biomass, which has a larger CO2 level. It makes no sense that as politicians we are so busy phasing out natural gas when we know that biomass has a much, much bigger emissions of CO2 for society and for our climate, it must be far better for us to stick to natural gas as long as we have a biomass that fills as much and that we avoid using as much biomass as possible. For our calculation of biomass, if we do it correctly, shows that in reality it is even worse in relation to the climate load than what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113442	The truth is, we have to reach both. I also believe that we must just say it openly and honestly. Let's just imagine a theoretical example. That would probably include some investments that would hardly be realistic ever, but let us now just take the theoretical discussion that one imagined that we were replacing all biomass with fossil solutions, including natural gas. Then we would certainly be able to write off the target of a 70-percent reduction. You can discuss that. The Climate Council actually told us, when we were going to make the Climate Act, that they did not mean that biomass should be counted. We agreed to do this in Denmark according to international standards, otherwise we would not be comparable with other countries, and then we would not be able to use it properly in the UN and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113522	Thank you. There are no more comments and then we go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113543	Biomass is not just biomass. On the contrary, it makes a big difference how biomass has been handled before it is converted into energy, so we have electricity in the outlet and heat in the radiators on a cold day. It is absolutely crucial that we can rely on the sustainability of the biomass we use in Denmark. That is why the Social Democratic Party welcomes the debate that the SF is raising in this Chamber today, although we believe that the right way is to introduce legal requirements for sustainability. There are many electricity and heating plants that have used biomass to phase out coal from our energy system. That is a significant contribution to the reduction of our CO2 that is sensible. But it is important for us in the Social Democratic Party that the biomass we use instead of coal is as sustainable as possible. We therefore share SF's ambitions. The wood we use in the heat supply must have the least possible climate impact and as little negative impact on the planet's resources, nature, environment and biodiversity as possible. Although we share the ambitions behind the proposal, social democracy, as I said, proposes introducing an ambitious legal requirement for the sustainability of wood biomass. The legal requirements would, for example, be: include ensuring that the trees are legally felled and that trees are replanted, and they would ensure that Denmark complies not only with the EU's future rules, but that we do even more. Because we must make serious and tough demands on the biomass used in Denmark. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the resolution exactly in its specific wording, but we share the good intentions and look forward to finding a very good solution so that we can ensure more sustainable biomass in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113736	Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113739	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. It may also be that we will find a good solution tomorrow, you never know. I would like to ask a little about the content of these sustainability requirements, because we have a revised EU VE directive that we have to live up to. It takes, among other things. I am sorry to say that the climate impact of biomass is not counted in the Danish energy sector, but is counted where it is harvested, in other words on the basis of the LULUCF criteria. I say this because I know that the rapporteur has it under control, even though it sounds a bit like energy swahili. The report produced by the government points out precisely that we must go in and see whether the countries, for example, are going in. is included in the Paris Agreement and whether the countries from which biomass is imported have binding reduction targets. So I would like to know whether the Social Democrats are ready to tackle that part, partly because we in the SF believe that it would be useful, partly because it would be useful. is one of the actions highlighted in the report made by the government itself and required by the VE Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113849	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113855	What is absolutely crucial for us is that we ensure that we are more able to vouch for the sustainability of the biomass we use in the Danish energy supply. I do not want to stand here and put my head on the block in relation to what exactly it is going to be like, but let us take that into account in the discussions that we are going to have to start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113923	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113928	That's quite fair. After all, it is also a motion for a resolution which is in the process of further discussion. But I think it's a little interesting because it's in the government's own report. And that is how it is in general for the European Union, that is to say, that there are minimum standards and that countries can then go ahead themselves if they want to. Does the Social Democratic Party have a reflection on this in relation to the sustainability requirements that one imagines?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618113952	At any rate, we are imagining something that must be even more ambitious than what is being proposed by the European Union, so that we can have a good calm in the stomach that the wood we use is as genuinely sustainable as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114002	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. Mrs. Gitte Willumsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114023	We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution, B 128, on the certification of firewood, chips and wood pellets for energy purposes. Biomass is an important stepping stone to our target by 2030. It has made an indispensable contribution to the displacement of coal in our heat sector. Since 2005, biomass has actually helped save Denmark as much as 70 million. t CO2 Not only does biomass help us to retire, it is also an important contribution to security of supply, especially in large cities where heat needs can otherwise be very difficult to meet. Biomass has done well and remains an important part of our heating sector. For a number of years Danish wood producers have sold their residues as biomass, whether they are suckler trees, branch waste or sawdust. In Denmark we make quality wood in our forests, while at the same time we have had the coal phased out by our heat production. That is why I am very pleased to start discussions here on how we can ensure that the biomass we burn is also sustainable. The biomass will be part of our heat supply for many years to come, which is why it is of course necessary that the biomass we use is also produced sustainably. The Left welcomes legislation on the certification of biomass, which the industry and industry themselves are also asking for. There is a need for a fixed system, which everyone in the industry can belong to. It provides a level playing field and increases investment security. We already have a voluntary trade agreement that has existed since 2014. The industry is therefore ready, and we must, of course, be sensitive to it on the political side. However, it is important that we make such a scheme wisely, because there are pitfalls. Firstly, certification must be based on EU legislation in this area; the market for biomass is international, so of course the legislation must also be. Secondly, we must have all the details on the table before we adopt a regulation. We owe it to the industry to be thorough. In the proposal here it is very sparing with information about how SF believes the certification should look concrete. The adoption of certification requires more detailed work. We in the Left are looking forward to discussing this in committee and, of course, also in the ongoing climate negotiations. What is important for the Left is that we get the country a climate-friendly regime that is anchored in the EU's regulation of biomass, which continues to ensure good world-class heat prices and security of supply for the Danes, and which provides the industry with fixed framework conditions. We look forward to continuing the good work in committee and the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114342	Thank you. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114347	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for taking this proposal from the SF very nicely. And, as the rapporteur also emphasizes, this is a framework for further discussion, so thank you for that. In addition, I want to hear what the Left like thinks when the rapporteur says that it must be in accordance with EU legislation. After all, it is precisely this VE directive that has been revised and which, among other things, has been revised. also looks at different sustainability requirements for biomass. Have we in the Left decided whether this is the minimum level of the directive we are going for, or are we thinking in the Left that we can go further?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114431	As a starting point, we believe that it is the EU directive that should be the framework for this, but we are openly in favour of the negotiations and are willing to discuss it. However, we are in favour of having international equal conditions in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114448	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114454	Well, thank you for the answer from the Left rapporteur. Then perhaps a final question could be, as the SF motion for a resolution also says, about precisely this one with the ambition to minimize consumption as well. After all, it is everything else equally easier to look at sustainability also in relation to the amount. So is it imagined in the Left that a small amount of solid biomass is also needed in the heat supply, both the common and the individual?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114527	We are sure that there will be major changes in the future supply of heat and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we see this biomass as a stepping stone towards the 2030 targets. But the biomass will probably get some very different things to do, because we can use the biomass for perhaps some smarter things than just to burn it off. But right now it's the place we have and the technology we have. But technology, I think, is going to change a lot here, but of course we also have ambitious objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114604	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618114614	Thank you, President. Biomass has been a very good thing for Denmark and has among other things. reduced our coal consumption by 80%. since 2005. Therefore, there is no need to talk about biomass as such, but rather to discuss, of course, where we get the biomass. When we look at the figures today, we see approx. 40% wood pellets and chips coming from Denmark, Danish forests, and 50%. come from European forests. It must be assumed that the rules that we have agreed in the European Union will be respected. Then, of course, there is a residual which comes from farther regions where it can be difficult to regulate, both for the European Union and for the Folketing, and where we must then believe in the international certification schemes that we have FSC, PEFC etc. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree with the Socialist People's Party that there have certainly been examples that those demands have not been met, and that is, of course, unfortunate. The question then is how we approach it. And there I have to say that when you look at the Danish competitive situation, we are today, and indeed especially after the corona crisis here, I know not about the extra costs we get, as a result of the corona crisis, in a situation where there is not much to do to push Danish jobs out of the country. When we know that in recent months about 200,000 Danes have lost their jobs, we must be extremely careful about what kind of buttons we are screwing on here in the Folketing, in relation to the competitiveness of companies. If, for example, you're gonna have to... lies in the South Jutland and can look forward to rising heat prices or electricity prices, or whatever it may be, it may be lucrative to consider whether to move south of the border, where the heat and electricity may have been produced on coal, which we have almost phased out in Denmark. If that is the consequence of what we do in the Folketing, then it certainly does not do the climate any good, nor does the Danish economy do much good. Therefore, we must pay close attention to how the things we do affect society. When I started by saying that I can easily understand the intention of this proposal, it is actually sincere, but I also hope that the Socialist People's Party can understand that if you make this kind of regulation, it must be done in a way where we create common rules, including for the countries and companies with which we compete. That is why we think it is important to build on, for example. The EU's VE Directive. That is also what countries like Norway and others, as I understand it, are following and we want to do so in the future. So we would very much like to take part in a discussion on how we can lift this, how we can ensure that the biomass we burn is not harmful and that the way biomass is produced is as protective to nature as possible. Among other things: I have to say that when you see how the Amazon forest is treated in Brazil and South America, it cuts in the heart; that is where I think we all have the same feeling inside. But if we are to carry out that task and if we are really going to have to influence other countries, we have to admit a little humbly that it is not the Folketing alone that can do it and that we must do it together. So if it is a matter of trying to create a strong international alliance of countries that want to raise the level of biomass we use, then we are completely involved. But if it's about Denmark going solo and doing nothing significant good for the climate... do something bad for the business community... then we have to quit. But that is what we need to clarify in the work of the committee, and we are very much looking forward to doing so. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115050	Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115054	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt to take on board work on this motion for a resolution. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself mentions EU legislation in this area, and it can be said that some of what is at least also considered by the SF is that FSC, PEFC, SBP, the certification schemes that are today do not quite capture this with carbon storage and the potential CO2 The sustainability criteria for the raw materials contained in the VE directive address this very point with whether the country you import from is part of the Paris Agreement has national climate targets. So I really just want to know if the Danish People's Party is willing to go down the track where you also look at whether the countries you import from actually have a climate policy in which they settle carbon storage in a fair way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115154	It is, of course, important that the way things are worked out should be fair. What is the challenge of the United Nations inventory methods is that only CO2 is recorded. What makes us in the Danish People's Party think that we have one of the most climate-friendly farms in Denmark. But we must not calculate the amount of CO2 2 So, as I have said, we are fully involved in looking at whether there are any errors where things are simply not done properly. But you just have to be aware that every time you press this system, it tends to bulge out somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115240	Mrs. Signe Munk. Please press in yes. It makes it easier for me to see it from up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115248	I'm sorry. I'll make sure of that. Another element of this discussion has been that in the public debate the discussion has mostly been about the large cogeneration plants and their consumption of wood for biomass. However, as the rapporteur is probably well aware, there is, in fact, a fairly large proportion of the wood pellets that are burned in Denmark today, which are for individual supplies of wood pellets. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur shares the view that, however we can get such a certification scheme together, it must apply to everything from wood pellets to the consumption of wood biomass by large cogeneration plants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115323	As I understand it, it is one third of the biomass consumption that is used today in private pellet pine and waste and industry etc. So that is absolutely right, and it is not part of the voluntary trade agreement that we have today, and we would, of course, like to look at that. However, we must be careful not to use excessive means of action, for example. private individuals who have a pill guy at home for heating private residences. There's a difference between what we're talking about here. So as long as there is proportionality, we will take a look at it. But it is not certain that I can say quite openly that we come up with the same instruments as the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115402	Thank you. There are no more comments, so now it's sir. Ruben Kidde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115416	I would like to thank the SF for tabling a resolution which is very positive. It sometimes happens as a support party when you make a proposal that you also pressure the government to present something that you can then go in and deal with with with the government in negotiations. And it is precisely the case that we are invited to climate negotiations and precisely on the heating part will have to deal with the certification scheme for biomass. So I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for putting this on the agenda. It has probably played a part in the fact that we are going to negotiate it now. After all, on the part of the Radical Left, we want a certification system that works and we intend to ask a lot of critical and investigative questions about the government's model, which we do not yet know fully. This motion for a resolution, which the SF has put forward broadly, so that there is room for discussion, we will, of course, support as a starting point, but we hope, of course, that the resolution will be overtaken by reality. Generally speaking, biomass has to be seen as a temporary solution, which is why we in the Radical Left would also like to discuss a general phasing-out plan for biomass, both in relation to the decentralised plants where it can go quickly, and also in relation to the fact that we would like to have a coal stop at the large power plants in 2025, as recommended by the Climate Council. But here it's important that this quick stop doesn't result in us getting more biomass in return than we have to. So it's also about making it attractive for the big plants to get lots of heat pumps in and also getting geothermal in. So that is also part of what I hope we can discuss in the negotiations. But thank you again to the Socialist People's Party for the good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115636	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618115655	Thank you to the SF for making proposals to introduce some more certification of our biomass. I often think when such proposals are put forward: what do we get out of it and how do we get the most out of it? And if such certification can be used to obtain differentiated CO2 taxes on biomass, then I think it would be very good. Many people are talking about biomass being such a transitional fuel, and then we lack that plan for how to phase out a large part of our biomass, because we in Denmark have gone too far down a blind road and ended up with 16 per cent. of our total energy supply comes from biomass. This is not because we have to phase it all out, but we have ended up in a situation where there is far too much import, and we need to ensure that in our district heating we ensure that the geothermal area fills more in those parts of the country where there is a potential for it. We must ensure that large heat pumps come in as soon as possible, and there is therefore a barrier that there are no taxes on biomass. So it's not just a question of making up taxes; it's a question of making some tools that work. Because if we don't make a CO2 2 We also have to keep an eye on the fact that this biomass in Denmark, the Danish biomass, is filling a little too much at the moment. If you look at what is harvested in the Danish forests, it has been increasing in recent years. So it is because you are out vacuuming the forests for chips and pellets, and this has a negative impact on biodiversity. We have a biodiversity crisis which means that we must have a balanced cut in our forests. In the Enhedslisten we have a climate plan in which we have also been active in reducing our agricultural land so that there will be room for more forest, and we are also open to the possibility of some energy crops such as willows and poplar, which could be easily certified and where we could have a fine accounting. And I know that SF has also previously put together ideas about a rather large area for arrows and poplar, which is then initially intended as part of our district heating supply, but which has the potential that you can make wood alcohol or other out of it. So I think it is very good if we are looking for solutions that can be used for more things; and there the pyromaniacs have had too much influence so far. We can get much more out of biomass if we use it for other purposes. These wood pills are sometimes scolded. I first encountered wood pellets on a trip to Mid Jutland, where you actually had Danish wood pellet production as a good handling of what came from the furniture industry, where sawdust and chips filled too much, and then you developed machines that could produce wood pellets. Then you got a fuel product that was easier to transport. In fact, it still exists in Jutland on a limited scale, and I do not think you should put all wood pellets for hatred. If you have a furniture industry that has shavings and you make wood pellets out of what you distribute locally, then I would like to defend that solution. But when you come from the Aarhus area and know that district heating from the Studstrup plant comes from American wood pellets, you feel a little strained on biomass, and you think: How is it now that you get a better agreement when that contract expires? That's why we need to look a little more seriously at a switch to a settlement plan in relation to biomass and find some tools in good time. Because if we do not find the political solutions, we will end up with the heating plants, which will have to draw up contracts and which will have to keep some tenders, doing so on the basis of the legislation in force. And they have some obligations to seek and come up with the cheapest fuel so that you can get the cheapest district heating for district heating consumers • quite naturally. So it is about the framework conditions that we come up with politically, and if it is something that can be landed by Sunday, then we are open to it. However, we need to take some policy initiatives that can limit and control it a little more than has happened so far in relation to biomass. Because it has just happened quietly that more and more biomass has been replaced by coal and gas. We have tried to regulate this a little in connection with the smaller heating plants, but I think we need to manage how to phase out more imported biomass in the Danish district heating supply. We believe that there must still be some biomass in Denmark for the district heating supply, because we have a heating demand which varies a lot over the year. So it's natural to have a little biomass for the peak load in winter. So it is not because I want to speak in favour of phasing it out altogether. We just think we can settle for the biomass we can produce in Denmark. So thank you to the SF for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120202	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120210	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that we Conservatives support a certification, that is to say on the motion for a resolution from the SF, which, of course, needs to be corrected and adapted, so that we have the right solution, but we support the direction. We do so because there is already a voluntary certification scheme among the heating plants today, and that is a lot of that way, so we can just learn from it that we have to have the last 29 per cent. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. It makes sense. Some people will then ask and have asked what we are saying about the European Union, and there is only to say that in Denmark, in many areas, we are taking the lead in climate change, and nothing is done about the fact that we are taking the lead in certification. This will benefit us at a later stage. Something else in this is, of course, also the social responsibility of getting these companies to certify. This makes sure that the tree we use is as gentle as possible. Several people have said that there are heating plants that are currently running on waste wood from furniture production, and I guess not many of us have a problem with that, but it will be part of this certification that we get it pulled in there. I just want to say something again. I find it strange that we skate over it, but when we talk about biomass, I have to say that biomass still has a much smaller CO2 and there will now be Danes who remove their natural gas boiler and are connected to a municipal district heating plant that runs on biomass. Of course, this is complex, but here I just want to say that we are stepping on our toes a little by being busy phasing out fossil fuels, which we obviously agree we should, but that is the question of taking the lowest hanging fruits first. I would just like to take a step to ensure that we are aware that this problem is there. However, the Conservative People's Party supports the SF's proposal and looks forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120511	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120515	Thank you for the positive reception from the rapporteur for the Conservatives. Compared to this relationship with when biomass is worse than natural gas and coal, and when it is actually better, our hope is at least that you can follow what the Ministry of Climate Affairs also writes in their report on biomass and CO2 footprints, namely that we get a distinction. The rapporteur himself highlights this point: The wood pellets come as a residual product from a furniture production, in any case the report here will say "And it is also SF's attitude that then we are over at the less stressful end in relation to the climate, whereas if you take a tribal tree and cut it down and cut it up, then the climate load is much greater. And if you do not replant anyone, some would also say that then we are all over a worse load than with coal. So the rapporteur does not recognise that we have to look at the source of biomass in order also to see when CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120615	Yes, but the truth is that garbage wood fills infinitely little in the burning that takes place at the large works. And it is the case that whether we replant it is not the case that they are up in a year and a half. It is a long process and thus the inclusion of CO2 is why we still have a conflict with what we are doing, and I just think that we should pay attention to that. As a Conservative, I am well aware that the Minister may not be very responsive to that, but the fact is that we do not take the lowest hanging fruits first. And I think that is a pity, not because I am a gas supporter, but just because I say that biomass has some drawbacks that we do not have to promote by phasing out gas rather than biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120716	Thank you. Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120718	If we are going to move one step further, what I really want to hear from the rapporteur about in relation to this is whether the rapporteur does not believe that there can be a solution, for example, by means of: goes in and says it must be residues that are used for wood biomass, so as to make sure that it is not the particularly highly climate-laden solid biomass. It could also be by looking at straw or other types of solid biomass, which has a very rapid regrowth and therefore also very quickly has a CO2 So is the rapporteur prepared to move out of that track in order to avoid too high a climate load from solid biomass?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120804	But it is the case that the biomass still comes mainly from tribal wood, and there are limits to the amount of residues. But, of course, we need the residues first and foremost. Then I just have to say that we have a calculation formula for CO2 There is someone outside Denmark who disagrees with us in the way we calculate. And if we were to count in a way that someone thinks is the right way to do it, which is probably the right way to do it, then we would have a hard time reaching the 70% that we already have a lot of difficulty with. But let's stay with the Danish math model for now, because it suits us best right now so we do. But we have a challenge with regard to biomass, and we all know that, and the sooner we can switch to large heat pumps etc., the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120900	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. There is no representative of New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120911	Sorry, I was supposed to say hello to New Citizens and say that they cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120914	Well, then it's settled. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618120919	Thank you. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, we support what I would call the spirit of the proposal. I have been able, in one way or another, to derive a spirit from the motion for a resolution. It was a little harder to deduce a lot of substance and what the proposal would mean in depth. It's a little unclear for me. But the spirit of the proposal that I have derived is that the use of biomass in Denmark should not only be green on paper and in CO2 It must also be green in reality. We fully agree with that. After all, we have a challenge in Denmark, both now and in the long term, that we lack a stable energy supply because renewable energy is rarely stable. That's where we used to fire up in the coal power plants. This has been replaced by biomass. And if the use of biomass is not much, much greener than the use of coal, it is a bottom-up task that needs to be solved. We would very much like to see energy focused on the part that is about the commercial use of biomass, i.e. at the heating plants etc., as it is like there, it is really battering. After all, we can listen to the fact that the government has started work which we are following very carefully, and we also agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it should also be considered at EU level. Then I'll just raise a small flag for the part about individual warming. It is again a bit difficult in substance to derive from the proposal what exactly it will mean for consumers, but we do not want a system that is either purely symbolic or that makes it more expensive or more difficult for citizens to make use of biomass for individual heating. So energy needs to be focused, as it were, on the major commercial emitters, we need to think internationally, and we need to immerse it with the work that is in the government. We support the spirit of the proposal. In relation to the resolution itself, it depends on the actual work of the committee on how we vote. As always, we go into it with a constructive mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121131	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121132	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for both being constructive in the literal sense in the rapporteur's speech and in the spirit. I find that there was a specific question at least in relation to wood pellets for use in individual pine. The idea is simply to make certification compulsory in relation to all commercial sales of wood for energy purposes. That means that that's what you buy for your pill guy. The reason for this is that a fairly large proportion of the wood biomass that is burned in Denmark today is also burned in individual pellet pine, so it is actually to get the whole consumption certified instead of today, when the industry agreement only concerns the large collective works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121224-2	Thank you. It's exciting. We would like to delve into what it will then have with practical consequences for consumers. If this simply means that there is a certification that makes the wood pellets they buy truly sustainable, and that does not change the price or availability or anything else, then it is not the case that this is where we have to fight the great liberalist value struggle and then say no to state certification, and that is a lack of freedom. That's not what we're in at all. We are a little more anxious about what the proposal specifically means. We got a little bit smarter about that here and what consequences it has for consumers. Because we're thinking that everything else is at the big combined heat and power plants that are really something to pick up. And then there's just this whole discussion about how we really ensure that when we don't use renewable energy, we actually use something that's green. After all, we cannot rely on imports of nuclear energy from Sweden all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121313	Thank you. Signe Munk with another comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121317	Thank you to the rapporteur for the continuing constructive spirit. It is quite true that the resolution has been formulated around to get a concrete discussion started, but like to say what the common starting point is. So I just want to end by signing for the positive and constructive line of the rapporteur for LA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121340	I have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121341	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618121406	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank all the rapporteurs who have been up and welcomed what the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance calls the spirit of the proposal and which others have called the intention. That is also what the Social Democratic Party said. After all, the motion for a resolution tabled here by the SF has been tabled back in January-February, and in the meantime we have noted with satisfaction that the Minister for Climate Energy and Supply has also, very specifically, taken part in this work to obtain some sustainability requirements for wood biomass. We are preoccupied with this issue in the SF from the simple point of view that when you look globally, there is unfortunately too much consumption of wood for burning. There are too many forests where the number of trees, the amount of forest growth, is decreasing, and basically the planet cannot stand up to the fact that we are over-exploiting the resources that we need on the other hand and helping us in the climate struggle. For we need both species wealth in the forests, but indeed also that the trees absorb and bind CO2 For us it will of course take time to reduce the use of wood pellets in the heat supply here in Denmark, but there is obviously also a targeted work that has to start for SF to see • because the amount of wood we burn today is also important for sustainability overall. Therefore, in addition to statutory certification, we will also work for a plan to minimise the amount of wood biomass that is being used for energy purposes in Denmark today. We also recognise, of course, that many of the investments that have been made today in biomass boilers and wood pellets are also the result of an energy policy direction that has been set in previous times, among others. to push coal out of the large cogeneration plants. We believe that it is time to look at a statutory certification system, including: because there is also a demand for it out there in the energy industry. As several rapporteurs have also pointed out, today there is a voluntary trade agreement covering most of the plants in Denmark, which produce heat for our shared heat supply, district heating, and which is based on different sustainability schemes. For us, the existing certification schemes, whether we look at FSC, PEFC or SBP, cannot solve all the challenges we face with the consumption of biomass, because none of the existing certification schemes ensure that in the coming decades there will be no reduction in the carbon stock in the forests from which the biomass is extracted. So biomass certified under the existing schemes can be said, perhaps a little pop-smart, still leaves a climate debt, if not for this generation, then for the next generations, and we need to find a solution to that. At the same time, we also have a directive on renewable energy from the European Union, which has been revised and actually looks at sustainability requirements for biomass and bio resources. There it will be, among other things. highlighted that biomass must not come from countries which are not part of the Paris Agreement and have not set a national target for their climate plan, in other words, reported on how they will contribute to achieving the Paris Agreement's objectives or which have drawn up a national climate plan covering forestry in the country, unless it can also be demonstrated from forestry that it has been ensured that the carbon stock is growing in the specific forest from which the biomass comes. And that particular element is one of the key challenges we face with biomass, which we have also discussed here from the platform, namely that CO2 We in SF look forward to entering into a concrete discussion • what I see a majority of Parliament's parties also want to see on how we will shape both the implementation of this VE directive, but also what it means in a Danish context in terms of creating some legal requirements for the use of biomass that ensures sustainability. We imagine that it should ensure, as far as possible, that only biomass is used from countries which have ratified the Paris Agreement and which include forestry in their climate plan; that it is primarily wood from residues, residues from, for example, residues. certified timber production; that the biomass originates from producers who determine the carbon stock of the forest and ensure that it increases or at least does not decrease; and that the biomass does not come from indigenous forests with high conservation value. I look forward to having a discussion with the parties on the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee in the first place, but also in the concrete negotiations to which the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has invited them. Thank you for the floor, and thank you for your willingness to discuss this subject and for what I experience as predominantly positive expressions, at least for the intention and spirit of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122013	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur, so the rapporteur can go down, thank you. In fact, no one else has asked to speak and the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122034	The debate is open. This is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122053	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important issue. How long we keep fingerprints is essential to what opportunities the police have to solve crime, and therefore the storage of fingerprints is very close to my heart. Although fingerprint erasing may sound very technical, it is ultimately about security. It is about security for the simple reason that if the use of fingerprints can help solve crimes, the police can all else just catch more criminals and make it faster, thus increasing the Danes' sense of justice and our common security. We in the government have the clear ambition that the police should have the best possible tools to investigate and solve crime, which among other things. Our proposal and now the legislation on security and security that has been adopted are an example of this. The fingerprints taken from the defendants in criminal proceedings are an important tool in police investigations and as evidence in court. This is true even if the defendant is not later sentenced. Fingerprints can be an important piece in the puzzle when the police move out to serious crime, where otherwise the tracks do not point to a perpetrator. In other words, the fingerprints of the people on whom the police have previously found the basis to aim for crime can, like for example: DNA profiles provide the police with an important basis for investigation if, for example, A new Amagerman was to appear. The police usually take fingerprints from tracks such as objects and from the sighted. This totals more than 12,000 fingerprints a year, and the police have a total of up to 400,000 fingerprints. When a fingerprint is taken from a track, it can be compared to fingerprints from persons in the fingerprint register, and it can help the police to determine whether a particular person has been in a given place, and it can also be evidence in court, from burglary cases to cases of personal and organised crime. That is why I fundamentally believe that fingerprints should be kept for as long as possible. So that is my perspective in this debate: what is possible? The Danish People's Party proposes unlimited storage of all fingerprints taken by the police. If a person has had his or her fingerprints taken in connection with a charge and is later convicted in the case, the rules already allow for long-term retention of fingerprints. In this case, the fingerprints taken are usually kept in the fingerprint register until the person reaches the age of 80 or until 2 years after the person's death. However, the situation is different in the case of those who have been accused of crime but have not been convicted. In 2008, the European Court of Human Rights found it contrary to the right to respect for privacy under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights to keep fingerprints from defendants but not sentenced persons without a time limit. This was the reason why a very broad majority in the Folketing in 2010 adopted rules which suggest that fingerprints from defendants, but not convicted persons, should be deleted after a maximum of 10 years. The practice of the Court of Human Rights has not changed on this point. It is therefore still considered that the permanent retention of fingerprints from defendants but not sentenced persons is incompatible with the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to respect for privacy. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. As I mentioned at the outset, I myself am of the opinion that fingerprints should be kept for as long as possible. It is based on a clear desire that the police should have the best possible tools to solve crime and thus ensure security in Denmark. When the unlimited retention of fingerprints from non-judged persons is not possible, we must look at how far we can go and I have asked my officials in the Ministry to check whether the deletion deadlines for fingerprints from non-judged persons can be extended within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. If we can extend the erasing deadlines, I would very much like to see fingerprints kept for longer, indeed as long as possible. The Ministry of Justice will, among other things: also look at the possibility of differentiating the rules on deletion of non-judged persons according to the gravity of the crime for which the person concerned is charged. To the extent possible, fingerprints taken in connection with the most serious charges should be kept for longer than is currently the case. With those words, I would like to thank the proposers once again for highlighting this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122615	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122618	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister of Justice for at least showing some kind of sympathy in the speech. What I would like to ask is what it is all about. At the moment we have on TV 2 a series running, they have brought about a person named Erik Solbakke Hansen, who was convicted of a number of serious conditions in 1973 and also a killing in 1980. There have been doubts in the case of whether the reality is that he was the perpetrator behind these serious circumstances, and it is clear that if you have to investigate it, it might be relevant that the police have old fingerprints in such a case lying from defendants who then might be here this year or in the future. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice what the scope really is of what the Minister is saying here in the Danish Parliament today. Will the Socialists ensure that old fingerprints are preserved for posterity so that we can solve old cases as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122740	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122740-2	In fact, I think that the example of Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions, hitting very well into the centre here. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 2008 that fingerprints and also DNA should be deleted after a 10-year period was at least the result of what I remember was the act of the theft of a book, which is not a violent crime. However, I fully agree with the questioner that it must be possible to differentiate and say: yes, yes, but if it is a murder or another serious crime, it is appropriate to be able to keep the fingerprints longer. That is exactly what I have asked my officials to investigate. It may be that fingerprints have to be deleted after 10 years, but for more serious crimes we must be able to keep them longer, and killing is perhaps the most serious crime of all of them, and therefore it would be good if we could keep them longer. So the example is good and I fully agree with the honourable Member's approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122844	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122846	You could also mention the Amagerman, who has also been mentioned in many other contexts, where you have some really old cases, and where it might be really relevant to keep these fingerprints. I just hope that the Socialists and the government will succeed in implementing what the Minister is actually saying a little bit about perhaps being able to implement. After all, we have had this case turned around many times actually since 2010, and changing governments have each ruled out the possibility of doing something. So if we have really been sitting on our hands for 10 years without being able to do the right thing, there is a hope that is bright green, or whatever to say, lit up here, and then I just hope that the Minister will follow it to the door. So if we can get a commitment to that, for example. By January 1st, I'd be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122941	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618122943	But it is my ambition to follow it to the end, and I know the questioner well enough to know that if I were to forget it against the expectation, the questioner would be extremely effective in sticking to the fact that, as I said, I would do that. If that is possible, I think that this is something where we need to review the relevant regulation in the next parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123006	Thank you. And then we start on the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123021	Thank you for the floor. Now, in the debate here we have heard the Minister's speech, which is why I would just like to put myself in the slipstream of it and say that we don't really see it as such, nor do I myself as a huge insult to people's human rights, that if you are accused in a serious matter, that information will be preserved. I think that is quite natural. And you can say that it may be that they apply, and it may also be that they do not. However, it is quite obvious that it will be an essential tool for the police in solving crimes, and that is why I think it is very positive to look at, which is also what the Minister of Justice envisages in the framework that we recognise and respect. We cannot then support the motion for a resolution, but we also hope that the Danish People's Party will listen to the positive indication that we would like to continue a joint effort to see whether we can extend the existing framework within the opportunities that we see there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123139	Thank you. There are no comments. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123149	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. In the Left, we are very concerned to ensure that the police have the most effective investigative tools to combat crime. This applies in particular to the possibility of recording and storing information, including: fingerprints and DNA profiles. It was therefore not an idea that had grown in the backyard of the Left, when rules were introduced on how long DNA profiles and fingerprints had to be stored. However, this is due, as previous speakers have also mentioned, to a judgment handed down by the Court of Human Rights in 2008. In addition to the fact that the Court of Human Rights concluded that Britain had stored DNA profiles for too long, it also made a number of general and more fundamental considerations about storing DNA profiles, cell samples and fingerprints. And we then corrected this in Denmark when we amended the Central DNA Profile Register Act in 2010, so DNA profiles have to be deleted after 10 years. For us in the Left, it is important that we respect international agreements and obligations. We joined the European Court of Human Rights and we will comply with it when there is a judgment, and that is also why we voted in favour of the law that the limit was 10 years. But that is not to say that it must remain there. If we can find a model where it is still possible to keep fingerprints for longer on the grounds that the police have been given new technical options or other, then we are very open to it. And that is why we are also pleased that the Minister for Justice says what he says and we will also strive to find other opportunities or better opportunities for the police to investigate crime. We support the extension of the period, but we are not in favour of an unlimited period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123404	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123545	Thank you for the floor, President. If you print, you can see that these are special patterns formed by lines, papilars on the outermost part of your fingers. You read Article 4 paragraph. 11, in the Data Protection Regulation, it appears that fingerprint data properly fall within the category biometric data. Biometric data are defined as personal data which, as a result of specific technical processing relating to the physical, physiological or behavioural characteristics of a natural person, enable or confirm a unique identification of that person. Reading further in Article 9, it appears that the processing of biometric data in order to identify a natural person must be seen as a specific person-sensitive information. This information should therefore not be retained for longer than is strictly necessary. In current legislation, the fingerprints of a accused person must be deleted after 10 years. If you are convicted, the prints will be erased at the age of 80, or two years after you are dead. The proposal here envisages that, regardless of what, storage should take place without a time limit. Such a massive increase in the retention of people's sensitive information cannot be supported at all by the Radical Left, and certainly not when it is in conflict with the Court of Human Rights. The hand of the state should not hide the greasy fingers of its citizens any longer than is necessary. It's gonna be a thumb down from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123734	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618123854	Thank you. In the SF, we recognise that fingerprints are a very good investigative tool, and that is why we are naturally also concerned that you have it at your fingertips when you need it. But we also recognise that you have the right to privacy. After all, there was a verdict in 2008, which led to changes in our deletion deadlines for fingerprints. We respect that in the SF, but we are also open to and willing to look at it if the Minister says he can find new ways to retain fingerprints for the most common crimes. For fingerprints is not something that is just standing alone; it is typically something that is used in conjunction with other evidence. Therefore, the risk of being linked to something wrong is probably not so present, but that is of course not the crux of the matter here either. What the proposal is about is that storage should be unlimited in time, and I think that is going too far. But we look forward to the proposal that the Minister is going to put on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124031	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124040	Thank you. I shall also be very brief. In the comments on this proposal, which comes from the Danish People's Party, you can read that fingerprints from people who have been charged but have not been convicted are stored for 10 years. On the other hand, if you have been convicted, the prints will be stored until the age of 80. If it did not reach 80 years of age, they will be saved until 2 years after death. In the Enhedslisten, we agree with the proposers that solving crime is an important social interest. Faced with this, consideration is given to the protection of sensitive personal data and the principle that a person is innocent until proven otherwise. I fully agree that fingerprints can be a good tool and a good way to solve crimes. A citizen who has previously been charged but has not been convicted is to be regarded as innocent on an equal footing with all citizens who have never been charged or convicted. The fact that the fingerprints of the defendants are being kept for 10 years today is an appropriate consideration of the need to solve crimes. After 10 years, it is so reasonable to delete those fingerprints, so that the situation of citizens is fully in line with the situation of citizens who have never been charged. Against this background, Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124206	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124219	Thank you to the Danish People's Party, which has put forward proposals to keep fingerprints for life if a person is charged. When it comes to issues like this, it is very much about finding the right balance between the rights of the individual and the concerns of society's security. Our position is that this proposal goes too far in wanting to keep fingerprints forever. If you're accused and not convicted, it's a violent offense that the state has to keep your fingerprints for the rest of your days. There may be a risk that your fingerprints will fall into the wrong hands by leaking sensitive information that we have seen in the past. At the same time, it has to be said that you can already keep a sign's fingerprints for up to 10 years, and I doubt that someone who can stay out of crime for 10 years should suddenly decide to become a habitual criminal just because your fingerprints have been removed from the database. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not believe that the proposal has the right balance between right and fair, which is why we cannot support it. However, we support the Minister's proposal to extend the rule to certain serious crimes. So we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124342	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124353	New Citizen supports DF's motion for a resolution on unlimited fingerprint storage. We fully agree that if you are charged with a crime and the retention after 10 years ends, there may be a challenge to solving crimes which, at the time of the crime, did not have sufficient circumstantial evidence and evidence, but for which evidence is subsequently found. It is relatively difficult to abuse a fingerprint which is in a register, and with regard to the consideration which may be given to what to say about data security, or the consideration of the person charged but who is not guilty of a crime, we do not see the fingerprint as something that is insanely dangerous. We also have a situation today where we are increasingly using fingerprints, among other things. in passports, so in this context we think it is sensible to move in a direction in which we will have the opportunity to store fingerprints for a long time. We can also understand that in the past it has been the policy of the Social Democratic Party that this restriction would be lifted altogether. We have then come across a government power and thus also a consideration of a convention, as is often the case with governments. I am glad, however, that this government is not, after all, a consideration which means that all policy is shelved, but that it is trying to move towards reaching a limit on how far one can get in relation to the Convention. In those words, I would just like to say that we support the proposal. And thank you to DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124530	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124534	Thank you. We do not support the resolution. Few people are surprised because we think it is important to protect privacy. And something like your fingerprints isn't something that belongs to the state. It's your own. To work for a lot of people who have not been convicted of crime, who may have been accused of something but who have not been convicted, to return their fingerprints to the state in time and forever, we are so fundamentally sceptical about. If you are to get on that trail, it must be because it is only in exceptional cases; that is, in cases of serious crime that have been repeated and where the investigation of the crime turns out to be difficult without having quick and easy access to fingerprints. Well, in those cases it may make sense, but otherwise we think it is important to protect privacy, our human rights and our freedoms. There we are, after all, on the same side as the government in the sense that we believe that we should respect the conventions. I sense a little from the government that it is a bit awkward that there are conventions and human rights and the kind of thing that should safeguard citizens against a too far-reaching state. And there we may have suffered another joy in precisely those conventions and human rights. In this spirit, we find it difficult to support the motion for a resolution. But again: you get, few exceptional cases, it can make good sense. And I also understand that there is an opportunity and a cat door for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124715	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124722	After all, this is another proposal in a large number of the House that will strengthen the state at the expense of citizens' freedom, and it is indeed another proposal in a large number of Danish People's Party that will strengthen the state at the expense of citizens' personal freedom. Everyone understands that we must solve crimes and that we must solve serious crimes. Fortunately, we are united in this. What is the question here is that people who are not convicted of anything and are therefore innocent to the court, to the state and to the Danish people must be registered in a special way because at some point they thought they might have done something. But surely it is not the case that because the state has at some point said that a citizen may have done something that was then found not to have done, it is only necessary to be able to keep sensitive information about the citizen for an infinite period of time. Because that is such an argument that it is very nice to have that the proposer makes, and I also know the proposer well enough to know that it is hardly going to end here, because there are probably a few more things that Mr. Peter Skaarup will think very nice to have, and in the end we have a national register where we are all registered with DNA, fingerprints, mouth scrapes, and what do I know, because it is very nice to have. I think it is fair to say that when it comes to people who have been charged with a serious crime, you can hide it for a number of years, but to say that just because you have been charged, it must be kept forever, I do not think it is fair. It is not to respect the personal freedom, the personal integrity of the individual. That is why I am voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124925	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618124940	Thank you for your consideration of this proposal in this Chamber. The last rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, I think I had caught the point best, namely to equip the police with very good opportunities to solve crime. Then, of course, you can take the view that it violates a whole lot. Yes, but so does the criminal, and there it is important that, if we are to find a murderer, a terrorist or a rapist, we have the opportunity to pull fingerprints and DNA. It is quite understood that this is something that the Danish People's Party is in favour of. We are quite open-minded about this, and this proposal is also an expression of that. The proposal is actually simple: the fingerprints taken by the police by various people must be able to be stored for posterity. Today, as we have mentioned here during the debate, there is a ten-year draconian deadline for the defendants, and there is a period of 80 years or two years after their death. The current erasing period means that if you need to match a previous sign's fingerprint, 10 years and 1 day after you took the fingerprint, it no longer exists. Then it has been deleted and, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, it does not make any sense at all. If a fingerprint will help solve a case, it must of course be an option, no matter how long it has taken. It should be perfectly clear, and here we should be on the side of the victims and the survivors and not of the criminals. Currently, TV 2 has just shown four episodes on the assassinations of Hotel Hafnia in 1973 and the murder of a young woman on Fanoe in 1980. A person named Erik Solbakke Hansen was sentenced to custody for these killings. By the way, he died in 1997. TV 2's documentary raises very serious doubts as to whether it was really Erik Solbakke Hansen who did what he was convicted of. And if he didn't, maybe there's a living killer at large. If you had his fingerprints from another context, they would have been erased. If he's dead, and if you took his fingerprints back then, they'll be gone for posterity. Those fingerprints can be absolutely crucial to a case's investigation, and in that case it will no longer be possible to use them, as they have been deleted according to the rules. On the other hand, if the fingerprints had been stored, many years later, you might be able to clean Erik Solbakke Hansen and instead find a new perpetrator. But that possibility may have been missed, if you have had some fingerprints that have now been deleted. It could also be that in unsolved criminal proceedings some new evidence was put on the table and that fingerprints could be used here which had at some point been given. And if it wasn't just because the fingerprints were given more than 10 years ago and they were thus deleted, then you could use such fingerprints in criminal proceedings. So basically, of course, we have to store the fingerprints that we have collected, and because of a judgment that really has little to do with Denmark, various governments have been playing ball with each other since 2010 and actually prevented the only thing that I understand the Minister of Justice will not quite meet, but maybe will look at in part as far as the really serious cases are concerned. I just have to say that for the Danish People's Party it is absolutely essential that we do what we can to solve any crime, and if the unlimited storage of fingerprints helps to do so, we must do so. That is why I am actually completely incomprehensible to those parties in here at Christiansborg who, in this way, do not support a proposal which, in fact, aims to provide the police with better tools and, in other words, to put obstacles in the way of the police solving the crime we know in Denmark. That's really too bad. That is why I hope in the first place that the Minister of Justice will come up with something that might be useful. Then I can promise what the Minister of Justice actually got squeezed into a bee at some point here in relation to some questions I asked, namely that we will keep an eye on the matter. We're a watchdog, and we're gonna say "dog." We will do very much if the Minister of Justice does not come back with a solution here on the short track at least which can be used for something in the serious cases. It is, of course, there; it is extra insulting to the right-of-law conscience if, because of some foolish drapes, one misses something that could mean that one could solve a murder, a rape or an arson. So let us agree in all possible ways here in the Folketing that we must give the police the tools and scrap old, incomprehensible, useless sentences that are not aimed at Denmark, but are aimed at some very different things that do not concern us. Let's be master of our own house and maintain that fingerprints are something we hide so we can solve crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125601	There's a question. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125606	Well, that's because it seemed to me that Mr. Peter Skaarup had misunderstood his own suggestion. The rapporteur says that the proposers are on the side of the victims and not of the criminals. In fact, I believe that there are 179 mandates that agree with that sentence. The point is, sir. Peter Skaarup is not on the side of the acquitted. That is what we are discussing. I'm on the side of the victims, and I'm on the side of the acquitted. But is Mr. Peter Skaarup doesn't care that you're innocent to the courts. Peter Skaarup really over the courts because he knows better?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125647	Now we have a current case we could use here. In 1973 there will be a very intense fire at Hotel Hafnia with many victims. In 1980 we have a young woman on Fanoe who is being murdered. At that time, therefore, we find ourselves going after one particular person, and TV 2 has now documented, I think, a very, very serious question as to whether he has committed the atrocities in question. At the time when you were trying to find out who had done these things, you might well imagine that the police are fingerprinting some others, which might be a certain probability of having a motive or having been in that place etc. etc. That is to say, you have a number of people you've had in your eyes, but you've said so because you do it the way you do it, that it's probably him here. Then you've gone after it, and he's convicted. Then that's what I'm saying to mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille: Isn't it completely good night that, because you've gone after this person, you delete the fingerprints, one of which might come from the perpetrator? Why should we miss that chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125817	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125819	What seems the most good night is, of course, if the police investigation has not been in order and thus an innocent man has been convicted; we can easily agree on that. But what Mr. Peter Skaarup doesn't answer the question, is he? Peter Skaarup is also on the side of the acquitted, for it is an interference in their personal freedom that they must be registered in a different way from the rest of us. An acquitted man is as innocent as Mr. Peter Skaarup. When an acquitted person is as innocent as Mr. Peter Skaarup, why should his or her personal rights be violated by the Danish state?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125855	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125857	Then I'll ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: Can a fingerprint be misused? Well, who can have an interest in a fingerprint, who has access to it, who can use a fingerprint for anything except the police in criminal proceedings? I find that hard to see, that is, that it can be abused for anything. I'd like to ask ten people on the street: Now you get ten fingerprints here, can you use them for anything? Nobody can, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. That is why it is so obvious that it is quite crazy to delete such information, in other words because it is damaging the work of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125945	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618125948	Thank you. This is just a clarification question following on from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's question. As I understand the proposal here, these are defendants who have not been indicted and not defendants who have gone through the judicial system and been acquitted in a case. Or have I misunderstood? It's just a clear question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130010	It is about the defendants in cases, which means that there may well be the defendants who have not been acquitted; there may well be the defendants in a case from which fingerprints have been taken, which the police have been hiding, because they believe that there are opportunities in future cases or perhaps the case they have dealt with. So we do not want to put any obstacles into the work of the police, and that is why we say that all the fingerprints taken from the defendants can be stored by the police, even beyond the ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130048	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Now it is the case that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille has asked for a second round, so welcome to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Picture as a privateist here in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130107	That was just one comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup, who caused me to want to speak in the second round. It was because it was asked: can such a fingerprint even be used for anything? I don't know if sir. Peter Skaarup has also been given an iPhone by the Parliamentary Administration as well as the 178 other members of parliament, because if you have it, you will know that you can log into your iPhone via your fingerprint, and you can log into a number of different websites where there can be a number of personal information. It could be banks, it could be anything else. Listen, there is no point in the lack of technological knowledge in the Danish People's Party risking that people can get their accounts hacked through the public sloppy with their sensitive information. We can just take one example: one came at a time to hand over a number of numbers to China, shortly after the then Minister of the Interior to me here in the Danish Parliament had been showing that one had never had a leak of personal numbers. But now you have it, so you can no longer use it. And then it should be weird if exactly fingerprints, unlike personal numbers, are something that can never risk getting the wrong ones. So yes, sir. Peter Skaarup, you can actually use fingerprints for something, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking that up, so we had a further argument on the ground against the Danish People's Party. The second point I would like to mention is the question put by Mrs Pernille Vermund. Peter Skaarup, because it actually brought something more interesting to bear than I think Mrs Pernille Vermund herself suggested, namely that it was people who had not even got so far in the judicial system that they had come in for a proper trial. That is to say, they are people who have not even suspected so much that there has been a real case; they have dropped the charge again. So it's people down on the suspect stairs. It makes it even worse to hide their fingerprints and thus their personal information, which may be abused by criminals, when the Danish state is again sloppy with information that has been stored. So thank you for explaining two extra good arguments for voting no on behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130347	Actually, it's even worse than sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille expresses here. 'Cause it's not even fingerprints we use for our iPhone, it's facial recognition. Well, it's another monster, which I have to understand, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille will get conjured here. But this is really about confidence in our police: do we trust that the police can have control of sensitive personal information, for example. fingerprints? I have to say that I have basic confidence in it. I know that there have been some cases because of some bad IT systems and things like that in the police, and we must then jointly correct that. But basically, and I really hope so too, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille wants to acknowledge that we need to trust our police and that they can keep track of that data. I can at least say that if they can't, we will come after them in here from the Folketing and that we will have to come after them if that happens. But I just still can't see why we shouldn't give the police some decent working tools, and my feeling is that the police want to be able to keep fingerprints instead of scraping them, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille apparently will.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130506	Now, sir, he's forgetting. Peter Skaarup obviously had his own rapporteur's speech, which was based on the fact that the police apparently had not done well enough in a specific case. Well, sir. Peter Skaarup stood here and expressed distrust of the police investigation in a specific case as a basis for making the proposal. But the question is, of course, between state and citizen. Should the citizen just have unlimited confidence that the government, the state, can maintain sensitive personal information in a proper way, the state that leaked Danes' personal numbers to China, the state where we can see time and time again that, unfortunately, public employees go in unfairly and look at people's private cases, whether it is in the police or it is in the health system? The citizen can't use sir. Peter Skaarup's confidence in anything on the day the rights of the citizen have been violated. Then Mr. Peter Skaarup come after them. Yes, excuse me, what helps when all my personal information has been hacked by criminals that Mr. Peter Skaarup will come after them? Once I've had identification theft done, sir. Peter Skaarup come after them. Yeah, I guess that's what that's called?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130618	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130621	Thank you. It is very interesting to hear a former Minister of the Interior stand and have so little confidence in the state. I recognise and admit that public opinion in many areas may fail, but the extreme mistrust of having had such deep insight as I suppose one has had when one has been a minister is both worrying and shameful to sit and witness. There is something else that I would like to hear from the former Minister and current rapporteur, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, over. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille makes it sound like it's worse to hide fingerprints from someone who's been charged, but where no indictment has been made than to hide fingerprints from someone who's been charged and through the judicial system and who has been acquitted. Did you get that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130718	What was rightly understood was that the authorities did not at least think that there was almost such decisive and weighty evidence since it had not come to trial, and thus it could be said that it was further down the grounds of suspicion. That's kind of the point. In relation to what is happening with confidence and distrust, I am actually surprised because I disagree a lot with New Citizens, among other things. the hetz that is against the Muslim minority in Denmark, which is the main issue for New Citizens. But where I thought I was in agreement with New Citizens was actually in the conflict between the individual and the state, and Mrs Pernille Vermund might just have to listen a little extra, as she herself says, because it is a former minister who actually has this approach to things. And I have it, among other things, because my predecessor as Minister of Economic Affairs and Interior, Margrethe Vestager, was standing right here saying that there has never been any problem with people seeing anything with a social security number never before, and I guess it wasn't a year since she had said it until there had been the first major leak of social security numbers. That is why it has to be said that trust is good, but that confidence should, of course, be for the citizens and not an unlimited trust from the citizen to the state. That's not the way to anything good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130830	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130831	The next question will be: What did Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille himself, as Minister, to sort out all the mess that appears to be worth distrusting? However, in relation to what we are discussing today: if there is a charge but not an indictment, it has probably often happened that new evidence will emerge and that the matter will get under way and that it will then find out that there is enough for an indictment to be made. On the other hand, if a citizen is first acquitted, then a different relationship, because in any case it is not usually possible to charge the same case or the same relationship twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618130914	But it is still a little violent for a party that has even taken the word bourgeois into its name to stand and say that to a person whom the state has not even found such weighty evidence that it has wanted to make a case in court, we must say: in your case, we keep some special information about you that we cannot even guarantee that we can keep in a safe way. That is an insecurity for the citizen, which I think New Citizens and Mrs Pernille Vermund are helping to create. I have not understood at all that the party that Mrs Vermund created was a party that was so enthusiastic about the state and so indifferent to the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131000	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party has asked to speak in another round, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131010	Thank you. I mean, to be called "state enthusiasm" as a citizen calls for another tour on the platform. When we support this proposal, it is because we have seen a host of cases where a criminal has not been found at first, cases which can be extremely complex and also very serious, and where, if there has not been an indictment, but a person has only been charged, there can be a fingerprint which means that when we get further forward in the time when technological developments may have an impact on the resolution of a serious, serious crime so that we can actually catch the criminal, perhaps even with someone who is initially either hung up or even convicted as in the case of DF, that is to say, that we find the right perpetrator. Surely that must be important in every society, every community of law and every rightful person.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131118	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief comment has just been made by Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131126	It was evidently the case that my fingerprints were not recorded so quickly, although I printed very eagerly, and that shows just some of the problems that may be precisely in relation to fingerprints. No, silly. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, where does it stop? Why only these people? Why not meet Mr. Peter Skaarup's wettest dream and make a national register of all of us? For that will certainly be possible to solve even more crimes. After all, we can always do something that might help to solve some crimes, but the citizens also have rights, and that is, of course, what we must constantly weigh up against each other. And what I am just asking is how we can allow ourselves to go in and restrict their rights in particular against a person who has not been convicted of anything. We have a responsibility as legislators to guarantee the rights of the individual, and there I thought I was an ally with Mrs Pernille Vermund, and that is why I am so disappointed in this particular case, because here I actually thought that we had a, if not an unholy alliance, then at least a rare partnership.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131245	It may surprise the rapporteur, but I am not surprised that, in a case where we are talking about victims and criminals, we are on the side of the victims and not on the side of the criminals. And when you talk about national registers for citizens, unfortunately I must disappoint Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille with that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille has already been registered as a citizen of Danish society. We're all registered. When we talk about fingerprints from the sighted, it is fingerprints that are stored by our police and our authorities, and I fully agree that mistakes are being made, and that is regrettable and regrettable, but the ultimate consequence of that should be that we are saying that we are now removing any CPR number and any registration of citizens, because we are, after all, just world citizens in a floating society where everything can be equally good and equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131341	So Mrs Pernille Vermund is (1) completely indifferent to the fact that citizens' rights are being trampled underfoot, 2) does not care that you can destroy your life because the public has no control over things, 3) is in the same misunderstanding as the proposer. This isn't about victims versus criminals. We're all against the criminals and the victims. This is about people who have done nothing getting their rights trampled underfoot, and I just didn't think that Mrs Pernille Vermund would do that. But so, New Citizens are new, so we have to get to know the party, even when they choose the state over the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131420	It is of course very interesting when you care so much about rights that you think that exactly 10 years is the right number of years. Why not 12 years? Why not eight years? Why not? If you have such fundamental and ideological views, as a citizen of a constitutional state where you are accused of a crime, you are registered by the police, including with fingerprints, why not suggest that registration should not be kept at all, that you should not be allowed to keep it for ten years? Why the 10 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131511	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 June. In order to justify the question, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131550	Thank you, President. The European Court of Human Rights and its interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights from time to time fill a part of the public debate. This has been the case for many years, and it does not really give a true picture of the enormous problem that the European Convention on Human Rights, for a transparent, well-functioning democratic society of justice, such as Denmark, is in reality. For what we are dealing with is a convention of general principles, which is being interpreted increasingly in depth, what we call dynamics, in a direction in which we have to say that long ago we have crossed the line which should define the relationship between the court-like and the parliamentary. That is why today, in our optics, the Court of Human Rights is no longer the original intention of it, which is to guarantee that the peoples of Europe should live in democracies with certainty so as not to violate fundamental freedoms, but has become a document that directly challenges democracy and, among other things, prevents it. This Parliament in a number of areas to implement rules, to maintain rules, which are most likely a very large number, a very large majority of Danish voters want. The pending case of Turk Savran, who is a deep criminal, but who must not be deported anyway, because he is allegedly unable to receive the same medical treatment in his country as in Denmark, bears witness with all or perhaps indescribable clarity as to how the madness of the human rights convention is spreading. I am aware, of course, that the government has brought the matter before the Grand Chamber, but only the fact that a 4-3 decision can come to the conclusion that Denmark, which, as I said, is one of the most orderly legal communities in the world, should violate the fundamental rights of this Turk by saying that he must of course go home to his own country, is completely on the moon. That is why we would like to see this convention and its related agreements broken down, and I am tempted to say so-called court. Perhaps we can also discuss in the debate how well qualified the judges who house in Strasbourg are, of course, not because we want there not to be fundamental freedoms. We have, in fact, had that in Denmark since the Constitutional Act, but because we believe that it is the Folketing and the Danish authorities that should guarantee them. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131907	Thank you for the reasons for the question. I would just like to remind you that the nationality designation is Turk Morten Messerschmidt Well, it was not too insulting anyone). Nevertheless, it is at least now in place in relation to nationality. Then the Minister for Justice is now giving an answer to this question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618131931	Thank you. Thank you for the question. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on this question. We have, of course, recently had the opportunity here in Parliament to discuss in depth the question of the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice, and I am very pleased that we are now having the opportunity to discuss the parallel issue of the interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights. It is a subject that is actually of concern to me. Like the European Court of Justice, the Court of Human Rights has also delivered judgments, which I would describe as activist. We have seen this in several cases, including cases against Denmark. Thus, over the years, the Court of Human Rights has expanded the content of the otherwise very scarce wording of the Convention on Human Rights. It has had the consequence that today the Convention has found its way into many corners of national legislation, and therefore there is reason to keep a constant eye on the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights. There may be a need to challenge the legal interpretation, and this is very much the case politically. This is particularly true in the field of expulsion, which Denmark has been focusing on for a number of years. During the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in the years 2017/2018, a comprehensive ECHR project was carried out focusing on a more balanced, focused and effective European human rights system. In this context, the project also focused on the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights. This resulted in the adoption of the Copenhagen Declaration in April 2018. This declaration expresses a political compromise and reflects what was supported by all the Member States of the Council of Europe. It is, after all, the basic premise that we must work under when we want to enter into international cooperation that results require a willingness to compromise. The Copenhagen Declaration set out among other things: focus on an increased dialogue between the Court of Human Rights and the countries of the Council of Europe on their roles in the implementation and development of the Convention system, including the development of the Human Rights Convention by the Court of Human Rights. The Copenhagen Declaration also stresses that, when the national authorities have made a balancing exercise in accordance with the case law of the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Human Rights should not, as a starting point, place its own assessment in the place of the national authorities' assessment. This is also reflected in a number of cases against Denmark in the field of expulsion from the Court of Human Rights. However, it is still too early to say anything final about the effect of the Copenhagen Declaration, and there is no doubt that attention is still needed to ensure a balanced human rights system, including maintaining the political focus on the Member States' margin of discretion. To answer what concrete steps the government will take in order to challenge judicial activism, I would like to take as a starting point two basic premises for the government's approach to the human rights system. For the government, on the one hand, there is no doubt that strong international cooperation is essential; not least, a small country like Denmark enjoys international cooperation and that basically similar rules apply across countries. Human rights are both right and important. On the other hand, we must not be afraid of the Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights' interpretation of the Convention or, for that matter, of other conventions. The government therefore believes that Denmark should dare to refrain when we believe that the Convention on Human Rights or other conventions leads to results that cannot be explained or defended. It is not easy to take discussions on fundamental rights and even less to change international rules of the game, but we must dare to take that discussion. When it comes to the government's concrete strategy in relation to the relevant issues and conventions, we believe that we should use the political and legal tools that we believe work in practice. In relation to the Convention on Human Rights, this means that the government is following closely whether the Copenhagen Declaration has the desired effect. At the same time, the government focuses on maintaining awareness of the importance of States' margin of discretion in an open dialogue on and with the Court of Human Rights on the interpretation of the Convention. An ongoing legal dialogue with the Court of Human Rights is important, but I think it is more important to maintain that human rights and their interpretation also have political implications. It is therefore important that the interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights and the question of the discretion of States should be addressed in the right political context. I myself will be aware of the opportunity to address the problem at political level whenever possible, and it was precisely the political attention that resulted in the Copenhagen Declaration. Another way in which the government conducts dialogue directly with the Court of Human Rights is by making so-called third party submissions. These are interventions in the cases of other countries which are dealt with by the Court of Human Rights. Among other things, it can be done. This is the case when the case raises important questions which may have an impact on Denmark. In such cases, less far-reaching interpretations of the Convention on Human Rights can be argued, leaving more room for manoeuvre for the Member States. Since 2018, seven Danish third party submissions have been made. This is a major intensification of efforts, as third party submissions were in the past very rare. We can see that it matters. The Court of Human Rights listens to and takes into account third-party submissions. We can do that, for example. see clearly in the recent case brought against Belgium, where the Court of Human Rights explicitly referred to the third party submissions made by the Member States in its explanatory statement. Another way in which the government engages in dialogue is by the government, through the network of agents from the member states of the Council of Europe, encouraging other countries to make third-party submissions in support of Denmark. This is done by the government in pending cases in the Grand Chamber of the Court of Human Rights with a view to challenging and influencing the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights. The interpretation style of the international courts is a matter of great concern to me. This is a trade, for example. to hold on to a line between law and politics and to give us politicians a political decision-making space. As I have said, the government is following developments in this area closely and is focusing on Denmark continuing to challenge the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights by the Court of Human Rights, including in the case of criminal foreigners. The government will continue the dialogue with the Court of Human Rights forward-looking and will continuously seek to influence and address activist interpretations from the Court of Human Rights in both political and legal contexts. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the question. This is a good opportunity to debate and ensure an open dialogue on the interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights. I look forward to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132716	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. It is now the case that there will be one brief comment for the rapporteurs who would like it. The rapporteur for the questioners has asked for a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132729	Thank you, President. It says on my screen that I can speak for seven minutes. Well, there it came down in 1 minute. The Minister of Justice says that Denmark must resign, and it is difficult to disagree with that. The question is, how does the Minister of Justice intend us to resign? For third-country objections may of course be fine, but it does not change the fundamental problem that we have a court whose decisions have prejudic value over all parts of Danish law. This was what a Parliament under a Conservative Minister of Justice, in fact, should never forget to remind the House of the 1992 decision when it chose to incorporate the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law and thus raise that convention above all the others. And that, in fact, is exactly the opposite of what the Minister of Justice wants, namely to say 'no'. The starting point is always that the court is right. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister for Justice will be prepared to grant the same status to the Convention on Human Rights as other conventions and to repeal the 1992 incorporation law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132837	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132838	No, I am not prepared to do so, and I believe that the path we should take is to challenge the court's practice in law and politics. And I also think it has to be said that when we look down on the story as it has evolved, not only with the Copenhagen Declaration of 2018, but also earlier, we have been able to politically push the Court's interpretation so that it has moved. So I think there are clues we can pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132912	The next brief remark is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618132915	Thank you. In fact, I agree with everything the Minister said. I just have a question about something that the Minister did not mention, and that is how and how we will ensure that this court does not start to set double standards. The situation is, of course, that we in Denmark want it to stick to the Charter, but take a country like Russia, where the situation is, that it has been directly adopted, that there is no court that can enter and trump Russian legislation. In other words, we are directly opposed to what we have actually signed up to in relation to the Charter of the European Council, and have said directly that we can therefore refrain from following it, which is in direct conflict with what the rules are. That is why we must also deal with it if such a de facto double standard comes suddenly, just because it is a large country in the form of Russia and we do not really dare put the chair at the door, and then I understand that the citizens of Denmark stand and say: ahr, why should we accept sentences that go against Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133014	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133015	I fully agree with that and it is a purely political issue which must be dealt with by our political representatives in different contexts in relation to the Council of Europe, etc. I fully agree that what is the value of international cooperation and conventions and rules across the board is precisely that we are saying that we are all giving a little of our ability to decide things completely independently in return for having a community on things that we would like to share.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133050	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133053	Thank you. One of the places where the Court of Human Rights and the Convention get in the way when we speak Danish politics is that there is a majority in the Folketing that wants to deport more criminal foreigners, and we have seen a number of examples of serial criminals who are not sent out on the basis of the Convention and the decisions of the Court. Can the Minister confirm that it is possible for a country to simply enter into the legislation specifically, for example in the Aliens Act, that in this area or in other areas it does not wish to comply specifically with the Convention, but that it is also to accede to the Convention in other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133139	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133140	In the end, we will be able to take back our competences ourselves as we would like. What is just the problem is that we will then play our part in the situation in Russia, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen explained a moment ago. And it is difficult to ask others to live up to the common rules of the game if they themselves say that, by the way, they will not feel bound by the common rules of the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133204	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and there will also be the general rules for short remarks. And the first rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133221	Thank you, President. It may often appear that the debate on the Court of Human Rights is only about foreign policy. And that is, of course, enough because the territory of foreigners is one of the areas where the practice of the court is most opposition to what the vast majority of Europeans, including the majority of Danes, want. After all, the Convention on Human Rights, as such, takes a relatively semantic view of the individual, that is to say, of the individual. Everyone has the right to... This is how all the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights are formulated. But in a person's life there is more than the individual; in a person's life there is also a people, a family, a country, a community, a history, an inheritance, a family, a responsibility. That is the way to live in a Christian country such as Denmark, and all that does not take human rights into account, because for human rights there is only one, namely the individual. And that is why human rights will necessarily be a betrayal of the reality that we live in in Denmark as well as in many other countries, because life there is specifically tied to the association with all the others with which we now share destiny. And that is precisely why, every time one of these judgments comes, human rights often hit like lightning from a clear sky, often contrary to the popular desire that lives in, for example. the Danish population. I don't have to deal with foreign cases to illustrate that. Last summer Denmark was convicted. It was believed by the honourable judges in Strasbourg that we had violated the rights of a paedophile rapist because, according to the rules applicable to inmates in the Danish prisons, who seem to be above the level, both European and international, had not wanted to give the person concerned an independent medical examination; Denmark was labeled as violating What about the victim, what about justice, what about the people's attempts to shield themselves and protect themselves from such crimes? This is not taken into account by the Court of Human Rights. It is not only the Danish People's Party that has raised this criticism. We are also hearing from experts concerned about mines, for example. from Professor Eva Smith, who has repeatedly stressed that the Court of Human Rights is on the wrong track. But what is the real reason for the misdirection? Perhaps it is the very way in which the Court of Human Rights is built up that is the problem. For what is a human right? Everyone has the right to justice. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression unless intervention is necessary in a democratic society. Nobody knows what that means, and that is why we really have a situation in which we have to ask the judges all the time whether they will not fill the gap left by the Convention. The problem is that in a democracy in a constitutional state it should not be judges who filled such a vacuum, but should be us politicians. And that is why we have to deal with whether we are talking about foreign policy or justice or what it is that the human rights summit, as we know it today, is an attack on the people's regime. I would therefore like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that the constantly extended scope of the European Convention on Human Rights is a threat to democracy and the rule of law. Fundamental freedoms are necessary in a democratic society based on the rule of law, but above all must be in accordance with the country's custom, appropriate, useful and clear, so that everyone can know and understand what the law says. Against this background, the Danish Parliament instructs the Government to give notice to the Council of Europe that Denmark will in future make reservations about judgments that prevent the Folketing from implementing the policy the electorate wants, especially when it comes to foreign policy. • V 89). It was therefore the proposal for adoption. Now we have a Minister of Justice who rises above the level of justice ministers, and he will of course know that the words I just read out are that the rules according to the country's custom must be appropriate, useful and clear so that everyone can know and understand what the law says. They are chosen from the Foreword to the Jutland Law of 1241, which appropriately sets out what the court should be, namely concrete and understandable. It must be a natural development of the Danish heritage, which is why the law, which has been developed for centuries in Denmark, stands in opposition to the human right that pretends that there are only individuals and that there is a universal truth. There isn't. That is why the court must always be bound to the concrete. Human rights will never be able to be; they are, by their very nature, the opposite. That is why it is a treason, not only against reality and democracy, but against the entire legal tradition that we have had in Denmark since 1241. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133730	Thank you to the rapporteur. The text of the proposals for adoption is part of the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133743	Well, it's not a secret now, is it, sir? Morten Messerschmidt and I don't look exactly the same on this question. But there are some things I am curious about trying to understand the position of the Danish People's Party. This is, for example, the point of starting from the custom of the countries. Maybe it's from 1241 and we're going to write 2020 now. But, for example, if you take lgbti rights, is that something you also have to defend in other countries? Or should we say that it does not matter whether in some countries people are persecuting and discriminated against, because that is their custom, and then we should not care about it? Is that the indifference to human rights, or what is it? I am really trying to understand the opposition to the work that is also being done at the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133831	There, I think, a distinction must be made between what are called positive and negative rights. If we talk about the violation of negative rights, that is to say, that we are talking about, for example, the violation of negative rights. in writing. - (FR) Harassing or preventing people from living together if they are of the same sex, I believe that they are clearly breaking with what I would call freedoms. We must adopt a position on this. But positive rights, and that is what the Court of Human Rights is developing, is something else. That's when, for example. homosexuals may be allowed to make demands on the surrounding society against the wishes of the surrounding society, i.e. that one should, for example, be allowed to do so. Says that it is a human right to define marriage in a certain way, or that in other ways you make demands on the surrounding society. I think that must be the right of each country to develop. A custom doesn't stand still. So we're looking at things differently than we did in 1241. What is important is that things are developed in a Danish context and therefore become recognizable, predictable and understandable. After all, it cannot be said that the Convention on Human Rights is either of them, because we must always ask the judges what is really meant by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133935	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618133936	I think there are many who would say that there is a lot of legislative work that is not immediately understandable. Just language in the law can be difficult for everyone to understand. But again: I still disagree, but I am again trying to get one step deeper into understanding. If you then say that we must of course have positions on negative rights, for example, who will enforce it? So is it just something we have to say every once in a while that we think it's too bad? Or is it precisely a court that is multilateral, going across countries, as the European Court of Human Rights does, that has to stand up for these things? I mean, where is it to be enforced? Where are you gonna address that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134013	It's not the court that enforces. The Court of Justice judges, and then the executive must enforce. That is how it works in a community governed by the rule of law, with the division of power, etc. But in reality, no, I do not like the Court of Human Rights, and there are several reasons for this. One is the convention itself, as I just mentioned. Something else is that it is basically very, very unsuccessful. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist is aware that 19 out of the 47 judges sitting in the Court of Human Rights have never practiced law anything other than at academic level. I mean, we have a court that can overrule, for example. the Danish Supreme Court, but where the majority of the members have not served at anything other than the city court level. It is therefore a huge problem that, just because it is international, we should give priority to their decisions rather than, for example, to those of the European Parliament. Danish Supreme Court judges. But that is the whole institutional part. I would also like to spend five minutes on that independently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134100	The next brief remark is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134103	Thank you. In principle, we actually agree that we should not have a too active court that goes in and goes against what a majority in this House wants, among other things. in the field of aliens. We are in complete agreement on this. We may just not be • or we do not agree entirely on how to get there. Because is the Danish People's Party not nervous that with the decision being taken, citizens of countries such as Russia, Azerbaijan, Turkey will now be able to look forward to, if the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution becomes law, not having any safeguards against authoritarian regimes, which I know, at least, that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur does not normally have any praise for? Is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not nervous about getting the ideal society where there is nothing called the EU, but where you still have the Council of Europe, which actually has some, should we say, specific guidelines on how we should live as Europeans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134201	No, I mean, as I understood it just now on Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen's question to the Minister for Justice, then Russia has chosen not to comply with the judgments of the Court of Human Rights. This means that it has obviously not had the very great deterrent effect on Putin and Co., that Denmark is thus complying with every comma of the Court of Human Rights. So you have to say, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen's construction that doesn't really work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134219	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134220	Is the Council of Europe my construction all of a sudden? Nevertheless, it is important to say that I am only a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, just as I believe that the rapporteur is still absent. But thank you for the fine words. As far as Russia is concerned, I think that the rapporteur should take a look at what the matter is. The thing is, Russia just passed this law. That is why we have not yet seen that they have done so. They've just got a tool to do it. This is of course problematic in itself, but my question remains. What about the citizens of the countries I have just mentioned? Do we not have a responsibility if we still want the Council of Europe? Or is the new European line from the Danish People's Party that we should not just resign from the European Union, but that we should also resign from the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134301	Oh, my God. Listen to me! Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen claims that Denmark's obedience to everything that comes from the Court of Human Rights should be what makes Azerbaijan, Turkey and Russia want to do the same. So I would just like to point out that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen himself has just made it difficult to do the same in the countries concerned. In other words, the fact that we are depositing a large part of our electorate's wishes in Strasbourg does not have the desired effect, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen aims, and it is only then that I note that there is no reason for us to amplify our democracy as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134336	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134358	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to give it this opportunity to discuss judicial activism, which we were also given the opportunity to discuss in the past in relation to the European Court of Justice. Now it is about the European Court of Human Rights and therefore also the European Convention on Human Rights. Now I just want to read a little bit of what it's all about, not for mr. Morten Messerschmidt's fault, but it is for those who watch and follow this debate. The basis for this discussion is, of course, the Convention on Human Rights, which, among other things, is the Convention on Human Rights. is about the right to life, the prohibition of torture, the prohibition of slavery, forced labour, the right to freedom and security, the right to a fair trial, no punishment without a rule of law, respect for privacy, family life, etc. etc. This means that these are fundamental rights which have been democratically agreed and which Denmark has only ratified on 3 September 1953 and later made part of Danish law back in 1992. Then you might think and ask: Have they come down on a stone tablet carried down the mountain? No, of course they are not. It is a result of the actions of people, politicians, namely discussions with each other, I suppose also compromises, and has thus been made democratically. Why is that? Yes, it is because the values contained in the European Convention on Human Rights are about what we also regard as fundamental rights that we have as citizens of democratic countries. And then we have the court to interpret and judge on the basis of the cases that can be brought within the framework of the Convention on Human Rights. It can be said that we see the same risk there, too, I myself do in this area, as we saw in the corresponding debate with the European Court of Justice that a court can be given which actually interprets and fills space, probably with the best intention, but which at the same time can act as an activist, in the sense that it takes on a role that we do not consider appropriate. That fight will then be there, and that is why I think it is a relevant debate that we have. Does that mean what the Danish People's Party has already proposed, and which I suppose also, without wishing to lay down Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's words in the mouth, can be seen from the speech that we should not be part of the Convention on Human Rights, but merely a question of what it looks like in relation to a Danish context? I do not think so. In fact, I think it is beneficial that, in a broader context, beyond the borders of our own nation, we should also be able to form part of democratic communities, agreements, conventions, conventions, even when they can be annoying and difficult. It's part of making a pact with each other. It's like making a pact in a marriage. One can have great love for one another, but sometimes it can also be restrictive and irritating. But that doesn't change the fact that you then cancel the marriage, because you do, of course, sometimes, but for most people you try to make yourself comfortable in it; the marriage example doesn't quite hold up with the court, but let it be so, of course. The fact is that the European Convention on Human Rights is a good thing, because it basically also helps to enforce some of the rights that I outlined before. Therefore, we still have to be critical of the course of the court, and the Minister for Justice has mentioned some of the ways in which Denmark and the Danish Government, including the current one, wish to work. I would like to read out a text for adoption, and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance that I make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government supports strong international cooperation and respects Denmark's international obligations, but that the government believes that the Court of Human Rights has delivered judgments which, in the view of the government, go too far and can be regarded as activist. The government focuses on the fact that Denmark is a country that conducts and will continue to conduct an open dialogue on and with the Court of Human Rights, both nationally and internationally, including in relevant political contexts, under the auspices of the Council of Europe and directly at the Court of Human Rights. In this dialogue, the government focuses on challenging the interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which goes too far, and on safeguarding political leeway, including in the field of expulsion. • V 90).
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134850	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134856	Thank you for mentioning a number of the provisions of the Convention. I understood that the rapporteur was in favour of the provisions in question. After all, the rapporteur is the legal rapporteur, so I assume that the rapporteur says that he is in favour of justice, as we know from Article 6. So my question will be quite frank: what is justice? For we read Article 6, we can see that it is quite succinct. One might almost say that if one were to hold it against the Danish Code of Procedure, which is of course more than a thousand paragraphs, in which we try to put justice in relation to legal proceedings and all other formalities and such things, it is actually quite crazy how short one can say it: everyone has a right to justice. So I just want to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus: What is justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618134947	That's a big question. If you look at Article 6, you can see that it is, among other things. It is a question of being innocent until proven otherwise, of having detailed information in a language that one understands that one has sufficient time and opportunity to prepare one's defence, etc. etc. However, I do share the understanding that these are quite fundamental principles, but also rather general ones, and that it is therefore also, of course, challenging when the court operates within that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135022	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135023	Denmark has been convicted under Article 6 a few times, among others. The Vasileva affair, which I am sure the rapporteur knows, where it was a violation of justice that a Romanian woman, I believe, did not want to give her name and was therefore detained by the Aarhus police for 13 hours, I think it was. After all, Denmark was convicted with pipes and drums. It was then a breach of justice according to the judges. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus well see that the concept of justice is so far that it can almost fall out in any direction and that it is perhaps best, therefore, that it is politicians and elected representatives who decide what the righteous is? Or I might also ask you another way: Jeppe Bruus any politicians or any people at all who would not say that they are in favour of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135104	I agree that there may be great interpretations of what justice is and that we can all say justice, but typically it is the sender, not the message, that is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135118	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135120	Thank you. Following on from Mr. Mr Messerschmidt's question I would like to ask the rapporteur: in the event that the citizens do not think that a court decision is fair, that is not one of our own courts, but the European Court of Human Rights, and if, as a population, you do not find that the decisions that take place there, which are not merely activist but are directly political, are fair and fair, and that these are not rules that we want to live by here in the country, you have no way of doing anything about it, but if we have courts in Denmark that judge in a direction where we say politically that this was not the intention, then we have an opportunity here in the Folketing to change the legislation so that you do not be judged forward, as a majority might find unfair or unjust, can the rapporteur confirm it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135213	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I want to make sure that the rapporteur has the floor. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135221	Thank you. I guess that's not exactly true. In other words, one may disagree with Danish law, in the Danish penal code, but does this mean that one who chooses as a citizen of this country is not able to change it? Well, you do. You can put together a Parliament that allows you to get that change through. In the same way, we can also put together a Parliament which will follow the Danish People's Party's instructions to get Denmark out of the European Convention on Human Rights completely. And that is, of course, in the rules of democracy of its basic substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135255	Second brief remark on Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135256	But does the rapporteur not recognise that it is precisely at the expense of the people's regime that we are subject to a politician's and activists' court, all the time that when the legislation in Denmark turns out to be contrary to what a majority wants or wanted, when the law was drawn up, we can vote for other politicians, or the politicians who sit in parliament can change the law? When there are judgments from the European Court of Human Rights to which we are subject, we do not have the same opportunity to change the law; then we have a limited option, which is the one mentioned by the rapporteur, that is to say to replace a very large part of the Folketing, which does not recognise the right of the people's regime, but which says: we are depositing part of our popular rule with a court of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135346	I fully recognise that it is probably easier to change Danish legislation by putting together the Danish Parliament than it is to change the European Convention on Human Rights and that it will require a somewhat larger exercise. Nevertheless, it is the conditions of democracy that it is made by people and it has been made democratically. And, of course, as long as there is agreement to it, it also exists in Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135411	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135414	However, the Court of Human Rights has actually evolved over the years not only to be a legal player but also to be a political player. It is a little paradoxical that Winston Churchill actually got the idea of the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights to secure democracies against the totalitarian danger from the Soviet Union and so on. Now, for example, the right to family life is. abstractly worded, that people have a right to family life, and of course they do, but what does that mean? This is where the dynamic interpretation becomes dangerous because it saw among other things. is going to apply to Gypsy boss Levakovic, who is not a national of Denmark but has a family in Denmark and who cannot be expelled because he invokes the right to family life. If it is not political and if it is not a court that has begun to act in political terms, I do not really know what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135518	In fact, I think I'm pretty much in agreement with that. There is, then, a huge challenge in the fact that these conventions have been written and made at a time which for many is a long time ago. This means that an interpretation framework is being laid down on those who, in fact, mean that the conventions also protect some of those we do not really think they should protect. That's a problem. That is why we must fight when we find that the Court of Human Rights is moving into an area or filling out a space that it should not do. We should therefore constantly be aware of how the interpretation of these conventions moves. It is difficult to change them or adjust them, but the scepticism about the fact that some of these conventions apply in a different way than the one originally envisaged, I share.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135616	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135617	Now I myself have been sitting down in the Council of Europe and some more political advice needs to be sought for a long time. It has to be said that the Left in particular, at European level, is using these tools to promote certain political matters. And to the point about the Minister of Justice saying that you have to make a fine cut between politics and law, I have to say: yes, good morning; that train has run many years ago. So my point is that this confusion of a supranational legal order with a court has really damaged the good national rule of law in Europe. It simply determines our legislation. Foreign law is delimited by it. There is hardly a convention that has as much impact on foreign law as the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135728	The fact that I agreed with much of it, sir. Christian Langballe mentioned, of course, does not mean that I disagree with what the Minister of Justice said. It's just for the record, and if anyone's in doubt. But I do share the concern also in the field of expulsion and aliens that the framework for what we can have been too narrow. That is why I think it is a good development that has been through in recent years and we have also had the discussion with the Institute for Human Rights about what the possibility is of doing, for example. rules on expulsion in relation to criminal aliens. It is important, then, that both as a parliament and as a government, we sit and advocate the solutions we want for the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135803	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618135811	Thank you for that, President. And first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the commendation of the previous government for the hard work that was done in relation to the Copenhagen Declaration which was very aptly made in Elsinore. And, above all, I would like to say that we, too, on the part of the then government, and therefore also on the part of the Left, have been in complete agreement with much of what has been said in the debate so far, namely that we have a court that has begun, unfortunately, to become too active, politicising • one can call it a variety of words • and that we therefore have to deal with it in a certain way. And then you can discuss what that way is like. We have done so many times, but this is not a new debate. And our answer from the Left is that we must do it in such a way that we get the reforms from within. And that is why we have great expectations that the Copenhagen Declaration will help to speed up the necessary reform work. But let us also be honest: I fully agree with what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said that there are judges at the Strasbourg Court who are simply not their job. But who is responsible for that? There is the answer, of course, that it has the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe because there is a democratic vote on who is to be judges every time there are candidates. So it is we who have been sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we who are still sitting there, what more of those present in the Chamber are doing, including those who make the recommendations, in relation to what some candidates can and should do. And that is why we are discussing whether or not we should have minimum rights as Europeans. I am in the day-to-day Foreign Affairs rapporteur. I am also sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and have been doing so for many years now, and I hear cases of how there are citizens of certain European countries who live so far away from just what is reminiscent of basic human rights. There we in the Left believe that we have an obligation to make sure that we help them as much as we possibly can. And is the way to help them that we simply say: the Convention on Human Rights is useless; we throw it out with the bathing water? Or is it that we simply make sure that we live in 2020, and that may require a temperature check of what was done then and try to reform it instead? The Left's answer is the last, because we also believe that if we did the solution of simply throwing it out with the bathing water, it would disappear for the millions of citizens who, right now and here, as the only rescue plan, have the Strasbourg Court. What are some countries that have the most cases before the Court of Human Rights? These are actually three countries: it is Russia, it is Turkey and it is Azerbaijan. Which three countries of the Council of Europe are the least democratic countries? It's just funny the same countries. That is why we also have to ask: what is our international commitment to? Sir. Christian Langballe mentioned Winston Churchill himself. In fact, I think Churchill was right: that if we want stability and peace and security in Europe, then we also have to work together cross-cuttingly. That is why it is pointless simply to remove everything that is reminiscent of international law, to create destabilization, chaos and strife; that it should be better. That is certainly not what Winston Churchill wanted and argued for. If you go in and look at some of the speeches he made then, then I agree with almost one hundred percent of what he said. And that is what we just have to stick to, while at the same time we can also agree that, of course, we need to make some necessary reforms. So that's what we're trying to do from the left side. We also hope that the government agrees and that they will take this up on an ongoing basis in the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. And then the rest of us who sit in the parliamentary assembly, and also those who are even closer to the candidates who come, in other words to the judges, must be our duty to grow up and then ensure that the reform work initiated by the then bourgeois government can get in and get some good results. We are ready from the Left for the reform work, because we believe that this is the only way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's for mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140258	I'm almost tempted to say that I believe, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen has been a little too long in Strasbourg and perhaps even enjoyed a little too much of the gastronomic benefits that are down there, because it sounds a bit like a bang talk, I must say. In other words, the judges from whom the parliamentary assembly can choose are nominated by the Member States, and it is not possible to choose from among others other than the three who come. The problem is not that those who sit in the courts are useless. The problem is that countries like Denmark in one and everything just say well every time they say something, while the three countries, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions, is more or less indifferent. This is where this system is shown not only in its impotence, but as being directly harmful to democracy, because the setup prevents regular countries such as Denmark from doing what a majority of voters would like, but does not prevent semi-dictatorships such as Azerbaijan, Turkey and Russia from not correcting the situation. - Sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen doesn't well see that he from Rieslingen's homeland is something out in the mist?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140413	Thank you. First of all, I think that if you did a fact check of who has been the most in Strasbourg for the last ten years, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt win the competition and the race quite big. I can't measure myself against the number of years Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has been to Strasbourg. And even though it's a nice city, I'm still away proud that I'm coming from Randers, and now it's still gone that's my hometown. As far as the questioner is concerned, the answer is no. So, I do not see that the way forward is what the Danish People's Party wants, namely that we really raise the whole issue of the Commission on Human Rights. I think that would be a dangerous way to go, because I have no doubt that we will not get anything instead, so we will not have an international legal order for European citizens, and I just think we have an obligation to do so, but also a benefit from it, in terms of ensuring stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140506	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140507	Well, of course I'll have to give Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that I have been in Strasbourg quite a lot, but what we can see from that is that my resistance has apparently been considerably greater than Mr Beazley's. Michael Aastrup Jensens. After all, we do not hear what the answer from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is on the question I'm asking. Well, we have three countries, like Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen believes is on a deroute: Russia, Azerbaijan and Turkey. I think everyone can see that. But Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen argues to the Danes that we must stay in a system where we cannot implement laws as the Danes would like, in our good democratic country here, because that is what will ensure that the three countries concerned are on their way in the right direction. But Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen says they're heading in the wrong direction, so it's lose-lose, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, because we will not have them democratized or the opportunity to do what a democratic majority of the Danes want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140555	I do not think I have said that this is only going down in relation to the fact that the citizens of the countries concerned have a Court of Human Rights to which they can bring cases. Fortunately, those countries must and can also ensure that they comply with the judgments that exist, and that is the only legal system that citizens have when they are up against an authoritarian regime which unfortunately exists in the three countries concerned. There it is just that we in the Left want us to have an international legal order and to ensure that stability is ensured. I understand the Danish People's Party does not want that, and fair enough with it, but I just don't want to take the chance with what it would create from chaos in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140637	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140639	Thank you. The rapporteur has been elected for the Left and the rapporteur has been elected by the Danish people as a representative of the Danish people, but when the rapporteur stands on the platform here in the Danish Parliament, it sounds more like the rapporteur has been elected by a European population. I think it becomes particularly clear when you hear the answers to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question. Because they clearly show that in Denmark, the Danish people, whom the rapporteur has been elected to represent, we must suffer in the interests of the people of Europe and the interests of peoples who do not even maintain and maintain the rights that are maintained at home to such an extent as to place our society at a disadvantage. And a majority in the Folketing has to say time and again: we would like to, but we cannot because of the European Convention on Human Rights or the decisions of the Court. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a schism in standing here and defending the people of Europe at the expense of the Danish people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140745	So, first of all, I would like to say that I believe that the 12,297 good Eastern fighters who crossed me well know where I am fighting and that they know what I am dealing with. Otherwise, I don't think the 12,297 good East Jutlanders had crossed me. They're the ones I work for every day. Nor do I believe that they want a Europe like what we had before; we had something like the Council of Europe, namely a Europe that was completely unstable, a Europe where there was strife and a Europe where we could not trade with each other and be at peace with each other. It is very rare that we have an opportunity to actually praise the Council of Europe. Actually, I'd like to do that. The Council of Europe, although completely forgotten in relation to the European Union, has had a powerful justification, not least after the end of the Second World War. That is what I actually think the dear Eastern Jutlanders are happy about, just as they are in the rest of the country, because that is what helps to create stability and peace for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140840	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140840-2	It is of course interesting how, time and time again, when we talk about the European Union, the Court and conventions, we can highlight them as the only reason why Western countries have come forward and never look at whether time has really made the conventions and the courts develop in a direction which means that the advantage that has been is perhaps no longer an advantage for Denmark, for example. In other words, we are constantly faced with situations, including the rapporteur's own party as the leader of the government, where, for example, the Danes are promised to expel criminal foreigners, and then when the court and the conventions get in the way, it is said that it is unfortunately not possible to do so anyway. We've taken over the power and promised you to do it, but we're not gonna do it anyway. Does the rapporteur not see that this is, what should be said, the winding-up of our people's government and the belief in democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618140941-2	So, I fully agree that we have had some judgments from the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe which have been too proactive and in fact I am against what they have done. In fact, I made that clear in my speech. And I also asked how we saw the result of making it better. I also put forward a proposal for this, namely that we do the reform work from within. And that is why the then government made the Copenhagen Declaration and it was not easy, I can safely stress that I followed it very closely. It was extremely difficult to get the Copenhagen Declaration done at all. We were up against strong forces, and Mr. Christian Langballe has mentioned some of them, among others. left-wing forces and other things, but fortunately this resulted in the Copenhagen Declaration, and now we have a tool to get the reforms. So I don't really think we're that far apart. Where the difference is is just how we achieve the goal, and there I strongly disagree that it is just throwing the Human Rights Convention to the right, because then it is that we will have the instability that I am so worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141038	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141041	Thank you. Now we talked about Churchill before, but I think the rapporteur is more like Chamberlain, who is standing around with a document entitled Human Rights in our time. So, I think it is a bit of talk, because what is at stake is that the democratic states that are already there, the rule of law like the Danish, are constantly in the class, while the countries that the rapporteur would like to hit, including Turkey, do not care much about those papers. This is a political reality. What is the reform work that will be set in motion? What the Copenhagen Declaration makes possible is already possible without the Copenhagen Declaration, namely that individual national states can negotiate with the Grand Chamber. Nothing new has happened. It was the emperor's new clothes. We have to admit that. We supported it because, after all, it was an indication that we were not satisfied with the way it worked, but I would say that this whole dynamic case-law of the Court politicizes and destroys good states such as Denmark and makes us, among other things, do that. can not pursue an independent foreign policy. The rapporteur must agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141158	First of all, in my 15 years as a member of the Folketing, I have been compared for the first time with a pacifist like Chamberlain. Usually people call me anything else that is in the opposite ditch, such as... Cold warrior, but okay, fair enough, in relation to sir. Christian Langballe maybe I'm a pacifist, but maybe I'll be in the right place. In relation to what is specifically asked, it is only important to stick to what is actually stated in the Copenhagen Declaration. There are, among other things: the so-called Kokkedaldialog model, which simply goes in and makes sure that the countries are now consulted when matters of a fundamental nature arise, where the countries say: we want to pay attention to what we are doing here. The yellow card was not used before, so to stand and say that the same tools as the Copenhagen Declaration have been put in place are, I am sorry to say, simply wrong. So there have been some reform measures, such as: ensure that countries are consulted in a different way, including: via this yellow card system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141302	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141303	I know I may be somewhere to the right of Genghis Khan, but I think the rapporteur is a rather soft liberal on these matters. To get to the point, I would like to say that what is the very substance of this is the whole structure of the Convention on the one hand and of the dynamic case law on the other. There's no change to a knuckle about nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141338	Well, I think so, sir. Christian Langballe knows that we also wanted an even more far-reaching Copenhagen declaration, but it is now the case that when 47 countries negotiate, it is the best possible result to go for, and that is why the Copenhagen Declaration is the best possible result. So we're gonna stop here? The answer is no. In fact, I myself have made a concession, namely that, since I understand that new, really strong forces have come into the jury's sub-committee, in relation to how and how the candidates are to be composed, I expect there to be strong forces to ensure that we have better candidates than what we have unfortunately seen in some cases. So we are not in the end yet, but fortunately we have started the process, and that is also good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141423	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141439	Thank you for the floor. One of the most pioneering measures and a foundation for the fundamental rights of the individual in this country is the European Convention on Human Rights. Together with the Constitution, they form a strong set of rights. For example: The European Convention on Human Rights, together with the Constitution, provides the protection of freedom of expression when Paragraph 77 of the Constitution only describes the prior freedom of expression, that is to say, the issue of censorship and detention, before the expression is printed, while the European Convention on Human Rights also protects the subsequent freedom of expression, that is to say, not being punished when a speech is printed or said. The European Convention on Human Rights also protects against hate speech, the right to family life, fair trial and other rights which are not necessarily written in the Constitution. In order for important rights to be genuinely rights, they must, of course, be enforced if a citizen is subjected to a violation of such a right. That is why we have the Court of Human Rights. The aim of the court is to ensure that the Member States comply with the Convention. That is why, of course, it must be possible to complain if we believe that human rights are being violated. For the Radical Left, it is therefore essential that we have the European Court of Human Rights to enforce the rights we have incorporated into Danish law. It is, in fact, a precondition for these rights that they can also be claimed; a court that comes to the rescue of the citizens, real people. Times are changing, and so are the standards of society. It is therefore natural for the Court of Human Rights to interpret the conventions into a contemporary social context. Some people call it activist, but it can also be seen that this is an expression of the fact that the court is following the times since 1950 when the Convention is from. At that time, for example, rights for homosexuals did not fill much, but in the 1980s it was established that it is an offence if a country punishes people for having sex with people of the same sex. Should the court be reluctant because it was in 1950? No, of course not, of course not. Of course, the Court of Human Rights should not be a boomer's court, which is merely living in the perverse view of human rights in the past. Conversely, there are also areas with a greater margin of discretion for Member States than others. For example, we are talking about economic conditions and value policy. Can we then discuss where exactly that margin of discretion should lie? You can, and you will probably do that at any time, no matter where it is. Denmark has always been a strong advocate of human rights in Europe, and we must continue to be. Look at Hungary and Poland in these coronatides. This shows how important the Convention is and that we have a court of law to enforce the rights. That is why I shall now read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and Sikandar Siddique. Proposal for adoption The Parliament considers that the European Convention on Human Rights is a crucial foundation for citizens' fundamental rights. In order for the content of the Convention to provide the necessary protection for citizens, it requires that infringements of a right be enforceable in a court of law. Parliament welcomes the fact that the Court of Human Rights is helping to ensure that violations of the fundamental rights of the individual are not committed or, if necessary, tried in court, and considers it natural that the Court should also develop over time in line with the development of society and not be stuck in a sticky view of 1950, and that Member States should also be left a margin of discretion in certain areas. • V 91).
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141857	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618141906	Thank you, President. It is not surprising that the Radical Left should pay tribute to human rights. The Radical Left is, after all, the outpost of emancipation, which celebrates the individual as a free from history, inheritance, family and other community-functioning animals, which therefore distracts some rights. It is, of course, a thought that we have as far back as 1791 with the French Revolution, in which we begin from the beginning of history and will try to create a newly defined justice. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur can see that the whole element of duty is missing from the modern Convention on Human Rights. So, in 1795 the French Chamber of Deputies, Les Devoirs Humaines, which must face Les Droits Humaines, will actually be adopted. So does the rapporteur agree with me that it would be a good thing if we could then have a declaration of commitment to people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142007	Thank you for the question. This is an exciting theoretical approach, and I think we can have many discussions on that. But first of all, thank you very much for pointing out that the Radical Left is a human rights party. We are proud of this, and I am glad that the rapporteur has noted this. At least I've made myself clear in my opening speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142028	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142029	It is strange, of course, that, in order to answer the question, it should be emphasised how large a human rights party you are without answering the human rights question I raised. It seems kind of amputated. In other words, what I am asking is whether the Radical Left, which has always paid tribute to human rights, could also be persuaded to join the French tradition, after all, with Brandes and so on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142103	Well, if the questioner has a paper on what this human obligation should be, then I think it could be an exciting presentation, and I would very much like to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142115	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142119	Thank you. Last week we discussed a motion for a resolution calling for Denmark to withdraw from the Marrakesh Declaration. When Denmark joined the Marrakesh Declaration and this global pact on migration, one of the criticisms from the media and us against it was that among other things. was inscribed section that was bordering censorship. States would be able to interfere in how the media described migration. Now the rapporteur says that freedom of expression is one of the most important things in the Convention on Human Rights, and therefore also in the activism of the Court, or one has a defence of the activism of the Court, because freedom of expression is an important parameter here. Then I cannot help thinking: was this an area in which, in the case we dealt with last week, perhaps some knots were made on themselves, despite the fact that the Radical Left was the banner leader of the Marrakesh Declaration and the Migration Pact, as is now being done for the Court and the Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142232	Now I regret that I did not just follow in the probably very exciting debate that took place in the Folketing last week on the Marrakesh Declaration. However, I do not think there is any contradiction in being in favour of the Marrakesh Declaration and, so to speak, that there is also a very strong support for the European Convention on Human Rights, where there is, of course, a wider protection of freedom of expression than what we know in the Constitution. At least in the sense of the word in the Constitution, only the prior freedom of expression is protected, in other words the formal freedom of expression, in which more material freedom of expression is also protected in the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is in that light that they cover up. There will then be some constitutional rhetoricians who still believe that what is contained in the Constitution covers freedom of expression wider than just the letters of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142323	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142325	However, if the most important thing for the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party is freedom of expression and the extension of our freedoms, then it must be something that everything else is a little shattered in the ears of the rapporteur, and hence perhaps also a possible criticism of what was then discussed last week and which, fair enough, the rapporteur was not here, but which, after all, is a pact and a declaration that the rapporteur's party has fully supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142407	I will read more about the article of the Convention which the questioner is asking about. But it is not a secret that when we talk about freedom of expression, there are also a very few modifications to it regarding the confidentiality of public employees in relation to the state's security. So I would very much like to read more about the article that has just been referred to, and then I can see what the rapporteur is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142431	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142453	Thank you. I know, of course, that people usually start by thanking those who have called for the debate, and so will I. It is then once again the Danish People's Party. I recall that in the last session we had this debate sometimes, more than once I can see that the rapporteur of the Left nods. Unfortunately, when we look out in Europe, we see that human rights are under pressure. They are both in the EU countries, but they are also very much within the Council of Europe's community. When we experience human rights being under pressure as they are today, it is of course important to constantly find out how best to ensure that all citizens in the territory of the Council of Europe have human rights and are protected by them. So how far can you go in your criticism so that you do not start to challenge and actually give ammunition to some of the regimes, Russia, Azerbaijan, Turkey too, there are other countries that want to challenge all the time? So when Denmark goes in and talks about activism and criticises the court very strongly, is it not actually to give a voice to those countries that do not so much need it? That is what we also discussed a great deal during the last period, also when Denmark held the Presidency. I remember some heated debates, including in Strasbourg, about the same thing. I was, and am, of the opinion that I think it went too far in criticising the work of the Court, especially because it gave a voice which was echoed by some of the countries that so much need there to be a very strong court to beat them when they violate citizens' rights. At the same time, the SF also believes that it is indeed important that we can have a dialogue on this, because human rights are in their essence dynamic. That is something that is constantly evolving. Radicals' rapporteur referred to the interpretation of the right to privacy, for example, and how people who have sex with some of their own sex were not covered in the past. So they were in the 1980s. It wasn't because you suddenly made a whole new provision. No, it was actually the dynamics of the interpretation of human rights that did so. That is why we must also dare to have a dialogue on both human rights and, of course, the Court of Justice. It just needs to be done at a level where we don't suddenly go Erdogan's or Putin's errand and challenge too strongly. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the SF: Proposal for adoption The Parliament considers that it is absolutely essential with unequivocal support for fundamental international institutions such as the European Court of Human Rights. The Danish Parliament notes that the government supports strong international cooperation and respects Denmark's international obligations, but also acknowledges that the government is not uncritical of individual cases of the court's dynamic interpretation of the legal basis. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government is focusing on Denmark being a country that leads and will continue to conduct an open dialogue on and with the Court of Human Rights, both nationally and internationally, including in relevant political contexts, under the auspices of the Council of Europe and directly at the Court of Human Rights. • V 92).
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The text will be included in the further negotiations. As far as I can see, there are no brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618142859	Thank you. During the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2018, the then Danish government managed to adopt the so-called Copenhagen Declaration, which has been mentioned a few times now in the debate. This happened after many months of Danish lobbying aimed at getting the European Court of Human Rights to interfere less in the tight Danish immigration policy. Now the Copenhagen Declaration did not go quite as far as the first Danish draft, but today, two years later, there is a general consensus among those who follow the practice of the European Court of Human Rights that the declaration led the court to draw the emotional horns and to show greater restraint in interfering. When it was clear that the Copenhagen Declaration could be adopted, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, to Ritzau: The responsibility for respecting human rights lies with the individual countries, we do not need a second opinion from Strasbourg. Enhedslisten is completely, completely disagreeing with the former Minister of Justice's point of view. When we have a Convention on Human Rights and a Court of Human Rights, it is precisely an expression of the fact that it is not good enough to leave responsibility for respecting human rights to individual countries. Russia, Hungary and Turkey are all countries that have joined the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights, but it is probably difficult to argue that we should just leave the responsibility for respecting human rights in the three countries to Putin, Orbán and Erdogan. Fortunately, in Denmark human rights violations are not as extensive as in Russia, Hungary or Turkey, but we also need a second opinion from Strasbourg, otherwise we are in a bad place. If it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the Hauschild case in 1989, we could today have had a case law in which the same judge, who has more than 30 times been in custody of a defendant, is also allowed to be a judge at the trial. The Court of Human Rights stated that such a judge is ill-advised. If it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the 1994 Jersild case, we could today have had a media landscape in which newspapers, web media, radio and television held back from reproducing extremist views and thus concealing them. The Court of Human Rights stated that the messenger, the journalist, cannot be punished for reporting extreme views. But these are all old cases from the past millennium, some will object so much and say that today we do not need a second opinion from Strasbourg, as the former Minister of Justice has said. Today, of course, we have the order of human rights here in Denmark. Or do we? Fortunately, last summer, I would say on the Enhedslisten side, we got rid of a government that made it its declared goal to go to the edge of Denmark's international conventions and challenge the conventions, and which was willing to run a process risk when tightening in the field of foreigners. Today, fortunately, we have a government which has promised that it will always respect the international conventions, as is also stated in the understanding document. Unfortunately, however, I must also say that we have a government which is pursuing the immigration policy of the old government and which is currently fighting in Strasbourg for the right of the authorities to deny war refugees the right to family reunification, the first three years after they have been granted a residence permit in Denmark. As long as we have governments that either make legislation themselves on the brink of conventions or which continue the dubious legislation of previous governments without changing it, the European Court of Human Rights will be needed and then there will be a need for second opinion from Strasbourg. In the view of the Enhedslisten, the Court of Justice must not be restricted; on the contrary, it must be ensured that it takes action every time human rights are violated, regardless of whether the offender is Putin, Orbán, Erdogan, Løjberg or Tesfaye by his surname. The Enhedslisten can support the adoption by Mr. Kristian Hegaard read.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618143356	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618143411	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative for this important debate. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always open to talking about human rights and the courts. The Court of Human Rights must reflect the will of the people and there have been examples of grotesque decisions and interference by the court. Under the previous government, when our President was in the position of Minister of Justice, we were in favour of the conclusion of the Copenhagen Declaration, which is intended precisely to ensure that the Court of Human Rights has greater respect for the decisions of the Supreme Court in individual countries. The Court of Human Rights should not regard itself as the fourth body and should not, as a starting point, reverse decisions by national courts that have balanced human rights fairly, and the Court is also called upon to refrain from many of the cases involving expulsions and to focus on major human rights cases. The unitary list's opposition to the Copenhagen Declaration, expressed by the rapporteur who was up here just before me, merely confirms that we made a difference in relation to the Court of Human Rights and their decisions in the previous government. Denmark is therefore a country that takes the challenges seriously and dares to reform human rights so that they dynamically adapt to a constantly moving world. Because human rights have not fallen from the sky. This is something that we must also be able to debate and dare to talk about them is important, because we must be able to discuss everything. If something cannot be explained, it cannot be defended, and that also applies to human rights. They must and must be up-to-date, otherwise we will lose popular support for them, and human rights should take on a form that everyone can support. That is why we welcome any debate on the court, because we must ensure that nations such as Denmark, which have a proper legal system, are not suspicious every time an expulsion judgment is made which is confirmed by the Supreme Court in that country, including Denmark. So I hope that the current government will maintain what we achieved in the Copenhagen Declaration and will continue this process and this reform work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618143657	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618143705	Thank you for the floor. New citizens welcome the question of countering judicial activity in the European Court of Human Rights. The politicisation and activism of the European Court of Human Rights weakens the rule of the people of Denmark. However, we are not hoping that something will be done about judicial activism as things stand today. I believe that this is because, as a citizen, we have not explained what the problems of activist, expanding international courts are based on. The European Convention on Human Rights was adopted in 1950 and the European Court of Human Rights is the legal control body of the Convention. The European Court of Human Rights has an interpretation style that is activist and expanding. It is called an expansive, dynamic interpretation style, and it is sometimes claimed that it is merely an expression of an approach that merely develops the protection of the rights of individuals as society develops. That reasoning must be rejected. Firstly, there is no sense in distinguishing between activitic and political interpretations. A court that consistently chooses the outcomes that are progressive rather than those that are timid and textual has actually wiped out the differences between the activist and the political interpretation. Secondly, the interpretation style of the European Court of Human Rights leads to decisions that lack democratic legitimacy. One aspect is that the Court of Human Rights does not look at the wording of the Convention on Human Rights as an expression of robust rules, but as flexible principles. In doing so, the European Court of Human Rights goes further than the agreement it has to interpret. The result is a lack of democratic legitimacy when the Court of Human Rights judges in a way that cannot be read from the wording of the European Convention on Human Rights. In its case-law, the European Court of Human Rights has disregarded the fact that the freedoms of the European Convention on Human Rights have been formulated as negative freedoms. That is to say, freedoms which provide a protection against State interference in the lives of citizens. It's a right to be left alone for the state. Against this background, the European Court of Human Rights, in its interpretation style, has established that there are positive obligations for the State under the European Convention on Human Rights. But, as you know, a right for one person is a duty for another, and if there is no specific person to lift the obligation, there is only the state to lift it. There is thus only one way forward: towards greater state and towards smaller people. Thirdly, it is absolutely crucial that the interpretation style of the European Court of Human Rights leads to unfair results. The interpretation of the Court of Human Rights has led to criminal foreigners not being deported because they can invoke the right to family and private life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The fact that the Court of Human Rights gives serial criminals such a trump card on their hands means that one-sided attention is focused on the criminal and all other considerations are simply swept off the table. That is, for example, the case. the right of citizens to be protected against criminal aliens and the right of a national State to determine who is residing in its territory and under what circumstances a right of residence may be lost. The right of citizens to be protected from crime is trumped. They must put up with expected repetitions. In New Citizens we believe in freedom, popular rule and national sovereignty. A court which, like the European Court of Human Rights, has an activist or determined political approach is not just incompatible with these values. The politicising human rights court is absolutely subversive to both freedom, the rule of the people and our national sovereignty. That is why we welcome today's question debate and in New Citizens we support DF's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144125	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and so we are through the rapporteur's line. The next to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144139	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. It is rather boring that the Chamber should be depopulated, the longer the debate progresses, but that is how one can express one's interest in the subject in such a different way, and one must respect that in a democracy. See, there is reason to address a few things that may give rise to misunderstandings. There have been some who have mixed the Convention, i.e. the legal basis, the foundation on which we stand, together with the Court's way of interpreting the rules. And that should not be done, because it can lead to two erroneous conclusions. One may be: the convention is wrong. The second may be: the Court of Justice is wrong. What is at stake is: we need a human rights convention, we need human rights. And if you have any doubts about it, then it may be that you will have a chance now, after our excellent government, of which I have the privilege of being a part, has decided to open the borders again, even this summer, to go down to Normandy. I am not going to say whether the French will be as accommodating as the Danish Government is, let us now say that you can go down to Normandy this summer. Then you will be able to visit the graves of the Allied soldiers who landed in Normandy at the end of World War II. And you'll be able to see the almost endless rows of white crosses that are there. You will also be able to see the monuments of the missing soldiers. And when I say that, that is the foundation on which human rights are based: it was because after the Second World War, on top of the Nazi Fascist regime, we said: we have to stand together and not treat people like that. We have to say: the indifference to human life experienced, the disrespect for each of us as thinking, feeling, existing individuals, we have to kneel. Because we will not again tolerate the appearance of these totalitarian systems, which, unfortunately, we can say is another discussion, because to a certain extent their horrible face is reappearing around. And human rights are not something that has fallen from the sky. I think, sir. Naser Khader used the wording: It is not something that has fallen from the sky. No, human rights are a political construction, a political construction which must be defended, which must be preserved and which then we come to what we are talking about today. For who is it to ensure that human rights are where the people's opinion is? It's the politicians. This is not a judicial task, and that is why the court's interpretation style is problematic. This is because people move to and develop politics in a forum that is devoid of political legitimacy. The Court of Justice does not have political legitimacy to make the legal development that it does. I acknowledge that I will probably be faced with the argument that, yes, but there are different interpretation styles etc. We are also aware of this from other legal systems, where the same interpretation is used. But for us in Denmark, for legal systems, legal traditions similar to ours, it is system strangers, and it is strange, and in any case it is hard to understand why they say: we are trying to give political legitimacy to someone who does not have it. Because there is a risk that human rights will develop in a way where the link with the population is lost and where the people say: why should this be so? And several of the rapporteurs today have given excellent examples of judgments where it has to be said that that was strange. That was not where we would be; where we are now being put politically. Others have said that there are also good judgments. That is where the gods must know, too, from the Court of Human Rights. However, it is not so much about the content of the judgment. It is about the principle of having this interpretation style, which is why it is right to think that there should be a democracy that works: that is why we also have to be able to deal with it and must criticise and be able to tackle it when the European Court of Human Rights goes too far in its interpretation style. And that is really what the discussion is about today. I therefore agree, as I have said before, that this is a relevant and proper discussion that we must have and that it is a discussion that we must have on a regular basis. Because if we do not do so, we risk going to a place where we are going to say: we do not want that, and therefore we do not want to be part of this convention, and that is why we do not want human rights, because we do not like the way the courts act. And so you get rid of the baby with the bath water. And that's why this debate is so important, and that's why it's so important that we keep having this kind of conversation. Not just here, but as others have also mentioned, in all sorts of different forums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144721	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144726	The Minister himself says that it is not the only court that is politicising, but can the Minister not confirm that, when the European Court of Human Rights is politicising, it is differently problematic for the people and democracy, since it is not possible for us here in the Folketing to change the law and say that this was not the intention of the laws and the rules, and thus to ensure that we do not judge accordingly another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144757-2	That question has a concrete and fundamental content. The specific content is: Can it be annoying here? Yes, it can. The content of the principle is different: should we accept that the courts are activists? And I don't think you should do that, and that doesn't just apply here. After all, we have also discussed the European Court of Justice and the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice. It is quite true that if the Supreme Court behaved significantly more activistly than the Supreme Court does, fortunately, as the Supreme Court does not do to any particular extent, it would be possible, on a long stretch, to change the law from here at home and thus to correct the state of law. However, in relation to the principle of politics being made by politicians, it is equally questionable in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144843	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144845	I'm glad to hear that. And that also means, when you have a court that is active or politicising, that we will then become, what should we say, limited in our popular rule, limited in our democracy in Denmark, all the time that what we have signed and what we all agree on, that is, the essence of the Convention on Human Rights, suddenly crumbles. So, the support for human rights suddenly crumbles because you think that what the court is judging is what we have supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144923	That is why we must challenge the court's interpretation style and way of creating justice and not challenge whether we should have human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144934	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Morten Messerschmidt, asked for the floor for a second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618144947	Thank you, President. When the Minister for Justice talks about the horrors of the Second World War and Nazi Germany, I think of French Alexis de Tocqueville, who, as you know, traveled around the U.S. states and studied the constitutional traditions and wondered why Mexico, which had annexed the American constitution, was so fundamentally different from the United States or the US states. How could it be, when the same legal basis applied in two different countries, that one was so deeply corrupt and disorderly, whereas the other was okay, it was not Denmark that had sought the rule of law etc.? And his conclusion, which, it must be said, also follows the line of European Conservative philosophers such as Joseph de Maistre, etc. and, to some extent, Montesquieu, is of course that the good society does not arise because of the words of the law, but that it arises because of the culture, development, custom, homogeneity, or whatever it may be, which is in the society in question and which thereby creates the good which is codified in the law. That is why I chose to start with the Law of Jutland, in other words to ask whether, if Nazi Germany or the Weimar Republic had signed the European Convention on Human Rights, someone had imagined that it had limited Hitler's disgusts. It certainly did not, as little as it does today, restrict Putin or Erdogan or others, what should we say, pseudo-democrats. That is what is paradoxical: a regime has been created which is largely based on voluntary or agreement, in which, in the nice countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands, we, the Western European countries, perhaps the European Union countries, are correcting and doing what we are told to do, even if we are fundamentally divided and can correct the factual and proper criticism that the Minister of Justice here mentions, while in those countries which have already decided not to want to be democratic, they have gone beyond it, whether they are called Hitler or Stalin or something else contemporary. They won't be prevented by these conventions. That is where this convention is, on the one hand, grassy and, on the other hand, completely indifferent. The problem is that it is the good to whom it is grassy and the bad to which it is indifferent. That is why I must say that I understand the intentions of the Minister for Justice when he says that the Convention is good enough, but is it now? So it is all right to leave to a field of 47 judges to define, for example. justice in the trial, when it is something that we here in the Folketing have felt the urge to have more than 1,000 paragraphs to define in the Code of Procedure? Then you mention the Hauschildt case. Yes, could it be imagined today that a case such as the Hauschildt case was in the media without Parliament's reaction? No, of course we could not, and the same goes for the Green jacket case and all sorts of other cases, where we have an orderly system in Denmark, which means that, when such obvious injustices arise, there is no need for it to be sent to Strasbourg to be judged by some, by the way, not very well-qualified so-called judges. We can handle that ourselves, and that is why, when I sit and beat pluses and minuses on paper, I must say that the majority of the quantity is minuses on it for Denmark. It is not so much that we are members of the Convention, but it is in that in 1992 we have lifted it up to be above Danish law, to be overwhelmed by authority, that the problem arises. We may have a discussion about policy making and activism and such things, and it is a bad thing, and it is quite contrary to the practice we know from the Constitution, Paragraph 64, that you should follow the words of the law, etc., but when you have international case-law, where you sit and decide cases day by day, one day it is Turkey, the next day it is Norway, the third day it is Russia, and then Portugal is clearly developing a case-law that is detached from the national and therefore will look abrupt, but which follows the internationalist logic that is at the court, and that is where the problem arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145453	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt, and it's from Mr. Hawkins. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145459	That is because I am a naive optimist and have the expectation that the question I asked earlier will be answered now, namely: in line with the Danish People's Party's new European policy, where one obviously wants to resign from the European Union, does the Danish People's Party also want to resign from the Council of Europe? Because the situation is, of course, the one that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is also clearly aware that the other Member States of the Council of Europe will not see this as quite acceptable if we say that we are now opting out of the whole Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145536	To take the latter first, I believe that the Minister for Justice may confirm or deny that there are up to several countries that simply regard the European Convention on Human Rights as a common international document and that have not chosen to incorporate it, as we have done in 1992 in Denmark. I think the Greeks, for example, just shot from their hips. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. With regard to the Council of Europe and the Convention on Human Rights, as I remember it, the Council of Europe will be set up in 1949 and the European Convention on Human Rights will be adopted in 1951 with subsequent ratification. This means that there has been a time when we could be in the Council of Europe and have it as a consultative body without having to be included in the Convention. I think it is only in the mid-1990s that one goes from having a commission to having a court. And that is the whole system of justice that we want to get out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145638	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145638-2	I interpret the answer in such a way that it is a 'no' to the wish to withdraw. I didn't get the answer, but I interpret it as that. So the question is: how on earth can one have a situation where Denmark is the only country that could get away with saying that there are some judgments that one simply does not want to comply with? Before we begin to mention Russia, we must also quote correctly what is the situation around Russia. After all, if they use their tools and suddenly say that they will not comply with the judgment, then they are also on the threshold of being thrown out of the Council of Europe, or at least some sanctions will be imposed on them. So is this the path that will be taken, that is to say, that we must be in line with Russia and potentially have sanctions against us and possibly be thrown out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145723	If sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen goes to the Council of Europe's website, he will see what is called commuting cases, i.e.: I'm sorry, sir, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Michael Aastrup Jensen sees that Denmark is of course a doll, but that there are countries like France and Italy and many others who have a lot of convictions against them that they do not implement and do not comply with. I have no memory of the fact that Italy or France have been affected by sanctions from the other countries, so we do not want to be roughly equal to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145754	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 23 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145813	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 June 2020. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, for a reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618145840	Thank you. After all, the social media have contributed very well. The gap between politicians and voters has narrowed and access to information has become enormous, and one can say, if one is to see it through the negative mirror glass, that the dictatorships around the world, which are trying to hold power in spite of the people, are doing all they can to limit their citizens' access to, for example. Internet. That's why the Internet is pretty much a great thing. But, as with so much other good, it also presents dangers and challenges, and we also see this in the political debate, where Facebook, Linkedin and Twitter etc. can be misused to spread false information. I have watched several times videos where people I know just suddenly stand and say something I know for sure they don't mean, and that's what an American expression calls deepfakes, where you can now simply make pictures and voice recognition in such a way that it's no different from reality. I have also experienced it on my own body by suddenly seeing facebook listings circulating, where it said that I should have presented completely outrated views such as criticizing Her Majesty the Queen, which of course I could never do. And it is not so much that you are put into the situation, it is more when you can see that others actually believe in it, that the Internet suddenly becomes a tool that not only provides access to information but also opportunities for misdirection. That is why we have taken the initiative for this debate today... some government bids for what we do, so that you can, like, know shit from cinnamon. Just as we have traffic legislation to ensure that we can get roughly safe from A to B on the roads, we need initiatives to ensure that we, as a citizen, choose, use social media, know that we have a certain guarantee against deepfakes or other misleading material, which, of course, does not benefit democracy or promote information, but actually does the opposite. So I am looking forward to hearing what the Minister of Justice intends to do about this, but unfortunately we have to assume that this is a growing problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618150135	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Justice for answering the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618150141	Thank you for the floor and again thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this question on political disinformation. This is an extremely important subject, and it is also a subject on which the Danish Parliament has dealt in various contexts. I would remind you at once that we have been called in consultation on the subject, that we have had motions for resolutions on the subject. In fact, it is rather the case that we know very well that this is expected to lead to us doing something, but we are in common in the Folketing in fact a little in doubt about what it is that needs to be done. The role of social media in society and the challenges it has presented fill a great deal, not only in the debate here, but also in the public debate and in the political debate around it. What the government has done is that we have set up a few working groups to look at the issue of the role of social media, the responsibility of social media, the possibility of removing illegal content and, moreover, how we can strengthen children's digital life and education on the Internet. But the challenges raised by the influence of social media are great, complex and diverse, and if they were not, we had long since drawn on this in the Folketing and found out what that regulation should be like if it were. There is both harmful content for children and for adults, digital sexual abuse, hate speech, political disinformation to name just some of them, and that is true, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said: It is becoming more and more sophisticated. It is becoming more and more difficult to see at the mere glance that this is at least something that is not true. There is certainly no one common solution for everything, and there are no easy solutions at all. Because, as I have already said here in the Danish Parliament, social media have revolutionised the way we communicate in good and evil. On the one hand, it is positive that social media have, as a starting point, made it easier to participate in the public debate, but at the same time we also see that easy access to expressing opinions is being used to spread illegal material. In fact, this was the subject we were discussing recently here in the Folketing. There are also studies that show that many people in fact about half of the respondents believe that the tone of the debate on social media prevents them from taking part in the debate and expressing their opinions. I believe that all of us who are members of parliament and those of us who may be on the social media, which I do on a very, very limited scale, keep us from reading the commentary fields to the posters you may make, because you simply stay in a bad mood and because people use a tone that you would never want to bid a human being with whom you physically talk. People write and say and claim things that are far past the general social code of how we behave towards each other. I have been, and all the members of the Danish Parliament have been, in countless panel debates I have also been with several of the people present and in countless debates, and yet there is a code of conduct. We've been at electoral meetings, on radio, television and everywhere. There is, however, a level that we are keeping to. On social media there is no lower limit to what you expose yourself to and how people will behave there. This may mean that some of those who would otherwise express themselves on social media are holding back from doing so, because one does not bother the way one gets through, and thus they become a space of unlimited freedom of expression, which in reality will be a freedom of expression in which one then becomes self-limiting. On top of that comes the political disinformation which, in my opinion, poses a potential threat to our democracy and to our social model. In other words, it is false or misleading information which is capable of doing social damage, for example. influence political opinion formation, which involves the risk of people acting differently than they would otherwise have done, and which helps to increase social tensions in society, thus helping to create a more polarised society. It should be seen in this light that social media play an increasingly important role in society and for many citizens, as well as being an important source of information about what is actually happening. And if the information we receive is misleading or untrue, we really lose the opportunity to relate to the world we are part of. Today, political misinformation is not criminalised independently, but the criminal code contains several provisions which, under certain circumstances, can be assumed to be applicable to political misinformation, for example. the provision of defamation and the provision of slander. However, it is difficult to determine precisely the scope of criminal law protection, since this kind of misinformation is relatively new and there is therefore no case-law, but I will return to that point, as I said at the outset, namely that the need for regulation is here, but the big question is how that regulation is to be made. Moreover, we do well to have the discussion about whether we agree on the need for regulation. Because one can easily imagine that one could take the view that everything is good and that this is just the way it can work when the free market is allowed to run out of control and that we should just be happy about that. However, I believe that there will now be a relatively broad majority in the Folketing who agree that we need to intervene here with regulation. Questions can also be raised about when we go in with criminal law regulation and so on, and if a sentence is subsequently handed down, whether it is in itself an effective response to the political misinformation on which the sentence stands, or whether something else really needs to be done and before somebody shoots it in my shoes, then I do not speak for censorship in this context. I am just saying that we must also consider what regulatory tools are right and I am not sure that criminalisation in itself is enough with the dilemma we are facing now. So we need to consider the current regulation, and whether it does, and I do not think it does, adequately respond to the challenge posed by political disinformation in our society. What is easy to do in this context is to use the words that we are so good at, namely that we need to pull on the work clothes and that now we have to do something, because action must be taken and so on. But that's actually the truth. The problem has a scope and a character, so we have to do something. The two working groups set up by the government are working steadily out there. It is complex, but I very much hope that we in the Folketing will be able to come together broadly on a regulation that will allow this debate to take place without at the same time having to cut some of the freedom of expression. This is a very relevant problem. It is good that it has been raised again. It's hard to see exactly how to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151009	Thanks to the Attorney General for that. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, but I do not see any sign-in, so we are now moving on to the debate and the general rules for short remarks apply. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151029	Thank you, President. And I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his full answer and for raising the dilemmas that are quite obvious. Everyone has the right to express themselves under the responsibility of the courts. I believe that this is how section 77 of the Constitution is formulated, and it is in fact a huge declaration of confidence for the Folketing and for the people's government, because in principle I think only Professor Peter Germer has problematized it gives it a very wide scope for what the Folketing can actually criminalise. We can, of course, discuss various elements, as we do on certain occasions, § 266b in particular, the blasphemy clause, also for many years, but basically we in the Folketing agree to a large extent that freedom of expression as a value must be safeguarded. So the question is, how do you make this traffic law for freedom of speech, among other things? on social media, and there is the whole question of jurisdiction, because where is the law actually to be adopted? If we take Facebook, which I believe is listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange, is it the Irish we need to get hold of, or can we do so in Denmark? What do we do when people hide behind weird fake profiles etc. etc. And you can't just find out who's behind it? Is this an injure? Is this an offense? Or what kind of provision is that? It is not certain that we really need new laws, but perhaps we need new guidelines on how to use existing laws in the new universe, which the Internet is, of course,, and that is the dilemma to which we would very much like some answers. Now the Minister says it is a cliché that the Minister tells us he is in the work clothes, and then I can replicate with another cliché and say that we very much want something fast. Because that's the way it is. Parliament would always like to have things just a few seconds before the Minister. But now the Minister has previously coquetted that being a politician means thinking about the ideas that the voters might think about at a later stage before they have even thought about them, and that is why it could be that the Minister could also be persuaded to deliver to the Folketing before the Parliament's patience has expired. Oh! The issue here is important, because it is basically about trust in each other and in society and in the institutions, and without that confidence you cannot have a democracy. Democracy is an incredibly generous attitude of life in which one believes that the neighbour will grant one the same right as oneself, whether it is the neighbor's favorite politician or one's own favorite politician who wins a parliamentary election, and that can only be done if one trusts one another and the system. So this is devoid of any controversy. That really is, Minister, something that is urgent. That is why I also want to have the privilege on behalf of the Danish Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the New Citizens' Party and the Enhedslisten to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that social media plays an increasingly important role in the everyday life of most Danes and that they undoubtedly have a number of positive qualities that promote public debate, including reducing distances between elected and electorate. However, the platforms also pose challenges, for example when they are used to deliberately spread disinformation in order to create a false impression of political views and messages, or when foreign powers use social media to undermine international institutions and confidence in democracy. The Folketing notes that this is a challenge that ultimately has the potential to pose a serious threat to our democracy and social model. It therefore calls for action and probably regulation, which is why the Danish Parliament expects the government to follow the area closely also with a view to taking the necessary measures in good time. • V 93).
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151455	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151458	Thank you. I would just like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance think that this is an excellent text, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt just finished reading. There is just the small element that it says that some regulation is probably needed. This must mean to me that we need more regulation, because we already have regulation of what people have to say and under what circumstances and so on, so there is plenty of regulation in this area. However, we are not sure that we need more regulation. It may be that some of the things that need to be changed a little bit can't be ruled out. But it is primarily about culture for us, it is about critical sense, and it is about industry standards that can be enforced without the legislators being involved. And there we are such a little puritan in relation to the word regulation, because it is for us that it is the Folketing that passes a law and that it is some authorities that go out and enforce the law. We are not sure about that here, and therefore we cannot agree with the expression that something more probably needs to be regulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151558	I am happy to clarify that, because then we may not be so divided about what we want to do. Then it's more a question of how to reach it. So, the intention on our part is: What today is of the rules of the game • I use the picture with the traffic law • for the debate that may take place either in the assembly house or elsewhere, we would also like to have on the social media. And it is clear that if you stand and claim that some named politician has done something or said something that is crazy or quite obviously wrong, then there must be the same sanction options... it may be libel law or something else. In this way, we in the Danish People's Party have certainly not determined whether there should be a material expansion of the regulatory instrument; it is more about the tools you have to be able to apply to social media as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151651	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151652	In fact, the Assembly House is interesting because there is no significant regulation of what has to be said in a Assembly House at least nothing that has any daily or annual effect. What happens in the assembly hall is that if someone in the community has a reputation for being a match spoiler, that is, someone who destroys the mood in the assembly hall with ridiculous views shouted too loudly, then they say: You are not actually welcome in the assembly hall. And that's also the way social media are trying to enforce this. They say you're not welcome. So they delete profiles and they delete things that people have written. There you just often see that the Danish People's Party and people who share the same views as the Danish People's Party are opposed to this social control that Facebook and other social media are trying to enforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151737-2	But I think there is a difference between whether you are just someone who destroys the good mood or whether you, for example, are. is one who desecrates. Actually, I haven't spoken about Mr. Knox yet. Ole Birk Olesen's facebook profile recently, but I have already mentioned my own, and I can say completely like the Minister for Justice, that it is rarely that you get in a good mood when you read the comment trail, where you, your family, your friends and your party can get with the crib. That is also OK until it becomes threats or libel or other things, and there should be the same rules of play on social media as in the assembly hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151815	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. The proposal for adoption will be considered further. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618151830	Thank you for that and thank you for another opportunity to discuss and debate the role of social media in this Chamber. I think it's the third or fourth we've had in the last year. This, of course, shows that it is relevant and that it is something that matters. This question debate is then about political influence, and unfortunately there are plenty of examples of this. There are examples that you are now beginning to manipulate videos. There are examples of a great deal of misinformation about elections. Lately, during the Corona crisis we have just been through, I could note that, for example, there is a situation in which we have not been able to reach agreement. was a video with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from April where she was quoted as saying that the corona epidemic was created by refugees. That turned out to be wrong. Nevertheless, this is the kind of thing that flourishes. And you don't have to be a professor of communication to figure out what the purpose is with that type of misinformation. That is why it challenges our news flow when more and more people get news through social media, and thus it can also undermine trust in the elected representatives, democracy and each other. And it's serious. It is therefore a good thing that, in line with this debate and similar previous debates, we have a broad discussion in the Folketing of what are some risk elements, even though it is difficult. We must also have a debate in the autumn when there is a greater basis for the work being done by the government. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss with each other how we go on this issue. We have also had a Freedom of expression commission which has worked and presented it here in March, and we also planned in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs to have some hearings and debates on the same subject, also in the autumn. So it is positive that we in the Folketing can stand together to take this debate, which is so important, regardless of whether you have one or the other party color. And then I should welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt read out and, of course, so does the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618152052	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618152107	Thank you. And not least, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an interesting debate about what we are doing in the new digital age, where we are, and that was it, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was in touch with the fact that we have the Internet and social media to try to bridge the gap between politicians, parties and so ordinary citizens. The situation is, of course, that with the very fragmented, but also the downward spiral that we have, in terms of how and how people get information, we cannot escape the importance of social media. Well, it's not more than approx. 10 years ago, there were over 1 million people who saw both the TV 2 news and the TV Newspaper a normal everyday night. That number is more than halved 10 years later. It is just over 80% that have access to TV 2 at all as a channel, and that number seems to be just getting smaller and smaller. If you look at such things as newspapers, you become even more negative, or if you look at how people listen to radio, etc. etc., the picture is the same. People get their information from social media. They get them from where people share their different things with their friends and acquaintances, and then they see it in their news feed. And we have also seen how different obscure news pages pop up, and suddenly they go viral with a story that may be true or may not be true. And who decides and who can find out whether it is real or not? This is a really important issue, because on the one hand, as a Liberal, I am clearly of the opinion that we should have as much freedom of expression as possible, but on the other hand, I do not want a society where there will be disinformation and where there is generally a situation where you cannot trust the information you look at the social media. That's why I'm, like both the Minister of Justice and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, very concerned about what the new digital tools, for example. Deepfake etc., can result in. It does not take much imagination to imagine that very, very soon certain videos of all of us will flourish, where we stand and say one thing or the other or the third, and then we can run behind and say that it is not us and who will believe us? So that is why it is a very, very serious problem. And since it is the Foreign Affairs rapporteur who is standing here on behalf of the Left, I would also like to say that, internationally, I am also very concerned. Because if we just look at how the covid-19 crisis has resulted in two countries in particular, namely China and Russia, stepping up their disinformation campaign with the sole aim of geopolitically creating as much instability in Europe as possible, then that is also a serious threat. It is indeed a weapon in it, let us be honest, cold war, which we have unfortunately regained. So this is a subject which we must also expect the Danish Government, in cooperation with our European allies, both within NATO and within the EU, to take very, very seriously. And that's why we have to do everything we can to protect ourselves from this. That is why I am very pleased that we have a proposal for adoption which almost brings together the whole of the Danish Parliament, and it also shows clearly how we can all stand together in order to ensure that we hopefully get as good and as well-functioning social media as possible. We'll probably never see a comment field, sir. Minister of Justice... some more than others, of course... which we can be completely satisfied with, I don't think so. People are mostly happy on my facebook page, but that may be the difference between what it is for some political matters you are now fighting for. In general terms, however, I think it is important that we should be able to have confidence in the things we look at on social media. So it is very positive that the Danish People's Party has raised the debate and, of course, we support the proposal for adoption which has very broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618152529	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618152610	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important question debate. This is not the first time we have been discussing social media issues in this Chamber. I think we have given a lot of tasks to this inter-ministerial working group, which is said to have been set up to look at the regulation and conditions of social media. And even though there are many complex issues related to the spread of social media, there are probably issues that need to be dealt with individually, there will probably also be some of the handles that have an effect on several of the issues we have discussed in recent weeks and months regarding social media. And learning about this kind of digital behavior may already have a certain extent in some schools today. Digital education can also be used in connection with the question of how to actually have a reasonable behavior on social media, and thus also in relation to the tone of what you write to and about others and others about. So in this way it affects a great deal, including the solutions that may be in relation to this particular question debate. For social media have provided more opportunities to express themselves at all times of the day. This fills you with information all the time, whether it be cat videos, friends' and families' holiday pictures, political messages and everything good in between. Videos, links and GIFs are shared, and there has never been access to so much information. I once learned that you should not believe everything you see or everything you read, and that is still true today, and perhaps especially on social media. For one thing, information can be true or wrong... there may also be two sides to the same case... but when someone specifically and intentionally spreads misinformation and fake news in order not to express themselves, but to create conflict in a population or between communities or to influence democratic elections, yes, we have a problem. That is why it is glorious to have such a broad consensus that this is something that we must take seriously. On the part of the Radical Left, we also believe that one of the most important armies we can take against fake news is the army called public service. Never has public service been as important as in this infinite information flow. That is why we welcome the fact that this is also part of the understanding paper, namely that public service needs to be strengthened. We look forward to further cooperation in the Danish Parliament on the issues raised by misinformation and fake news on social media, and I would just like to reiterate what has already been said, namely that we support the proposed proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618152958	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618153021	The fact that there is disinformation in the world is nothing new. Ever since the first political brochure was printed, I think we have warned each other about the spread of false information, and with the invention of the radio and television signal, propaganda was given an entirely new tool for dissemination. Nevertheless, the historically well-known spread of misinformation or desinformation, as it is said, when the spread is deliberated, can in no way be compared to today. The reason is that 81%. of all Danes today own their own publishing house, which they can use to publish exactly the content they want. Worldwide, nearly 4 billion people have become publishers. I am, of course, talking about the number of people who are active on social media and who thus have a platform for spreading whatever content they want. In general, I have the basic point of departure that it is a very good thing that we have got the social media. We are more connected, it is easier to communicate, and the distance between people and elected representatives has never been shorter than it is today. I am probably not the only Member who experiences very direct communication from citizens in my facebook inbox, and I think that it is actually most often very positive. Social media have been a gift to the public debate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the new link also gives all the new publicists the opportunity to spread desinformation to a degree that we humans have never witnessed before. During the covid-19 epidemic, we have seen how quacks have also used it here in Denmark to spread video material, where they tell lies about the causes and cure of covid-19. We have seen manipulated political messages; we have seen hate speech against foreign races and cultures and that they are being lied about; in the report by the Freedom of Freedom Commission there is talk of well-documented attempts to influence the elections in a large number of countries; and the concept of fake news has become a firm change in the world language. So there are problems of some as well. I have very great faith in the critical sense of the Danes, and I also believe that we actually saw it during the covid-19 epidemic, where, after all, most people did not fall for the attempts to disinform. Quite so easy it didn't work out in Iran, where a lot of people actually started drinking wood alcohol, because there was disinformation that it could cure corona. We should not stick ourselves in the eye and pretend that we are not vulnerable. For example, the Defence Intelligence Service considers that we are not protected from attempts to influence Danish elections. The consequences of the spread of disinformation are almost incalculable, and a tragic consequence of it is in fact that we are less likely to rely on even very credible sources, either because we are buying the messages spread by disinfectants or because we are losing confidence in all sources of information, because we ourselves have experienced disinformation or disinformation. After all, there is nothing to say about the fact that the Americans' confidence in their own media has hit a new low point at a time when, for example, there is a lack of confidence in the media. also their president accuses them of spreading fake news. I think that in Denmark we have a much more moderate folk regime, but it does not necessarily protect against disinformation. In 2018, several automated profiles, so-called bots, e.g. information on the United Nations Migration Pact, the Marrakesh Agreement. The false profiles tried purposefully to give the impression that the Pact gave migrants the same legal status as refugees and that the agreement involved Danish surrender of sovereignty. International cooperation in helping people was thus demonised in this way as part of a campaign aimed at manipulating the population. This clearly shows how vulnerable we are and, for example, how vulnerable we are. We saw in December 2018 that a false story spread about 20,000 armed migrants at the EU border, which turned out to have nothing on it, yet the story ended in Jyllands-Posten, and thus got a glimpse of credibility over it. This shows that there are challenges in this area and that even a reliable media with critical journalists is not necessarily immune to the spread of disinformation. The question is, of course, what we are going to do about it. Like France, should we make stricter legislation that provides authorities with targeted tools to remove and censor content extremely quickly, with all the challenges it presents for freedom of expression? Or should we do as in Germany, where content should be removed? I think that question is complex, it is difficult to answer, and that is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Justice has set up a committee to look at what we can do. I certainly do not have a definitive answer here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618153552	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur. Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. The next rapporteur to be on the platform is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618153605	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this debate. Social media are, and have long been, an important campaign element in politics around the world. Many agendas are created and take shape on social media, and we probably all have great first-hand experience with the political side of social media. One thing is that you can be a little too naughty in your communication, but what we see on social media these months is not just smart in a speed-communication, but really vicious features that have as their sole purpose the vindication and reputation of a person. It's a big problem when you watch videos from, for example. The United States, where the presidential candidates, both Donald Trump and also Joe Biden, stand and make speeches that they never gave, and where they say the most rabid and crazy things I've long heard. It is also a huge problem when you hear that the faces of public figures, politicians and actors are put on other bodies and are taken as income for having committed some incriminating acts. The whole problem with deep fakes is that a smart person with a clear aim can destroy another person, and we must be able to talk and guard against that. Public debate must be based on good debate and good arguments, not on fakes and fake news. That is why we support and support the proposal for adoption which has been presented in the past and which is supported by most parties here in the Danish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618153806	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618153816	Thank you for the floor. Social media have benefited, in the vast majority of areas, freedom, democracy and the right of people to speak. Never before have so many people been given the opportunity to express their opinions, speak openly either to a closed crowd, as they choose, or to the public. We have also gained insight into and access to politicians in a completely different way than has been the case in the past as a population. That's a good thing. In the past, if one were to hope to have a debate in a newspaper or just in a local newspaper, it required a number of skills, not only in terms of understanding how society is connected, but also in terms of the ability to formulate itself. This is not true on social media, and it means that high as low, well-educated as poorly educated, people who in the past have refrained completely from communicating, now have the opportunity to speak up, have the opportunity to discuss and debate and become wiser. One of the reverses of social media is, of course, that it also meets with opinions, views and even misinformation that you would have liked to have missed. Some of it can be turned off, and others can be directly liberating or threatening. Thank God we are in a situation today where threats and libel can be brought to justice, and then the court has to take its course. However, there are also challenges in social media that we have not taken into account. We in New Citizens are very sceptical about interfering in the public debate, but, on the other hand, we are also very concerned about protecting the individual from defamation and threats. And when we talk about libel, there is a grey area between what is directly liberating or directly threatening, and so what for many of us is not a daily phenomenon, but at least a phenomenon that most people have experienced, namely this one with identity theft. The rapporteur for the DF, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, mentioned it earlier, and I think that anyone who knows Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, will think of a lookup where it says that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is critical of Her Majesty the Queen that he seems to have had a sip of thirst, or one might think that someone has sat down to the keys of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's computer, because that doesn't come from mr. Morten Messerschmidt. This leads to what I think is at least as important as regulation, namely that we have increased focus on critical sense. There was a TV crew that walked around here in the hallways at some point and showed a so-called deepfake video by Mr. Peter Kofod, who is even a member of the rapporteur's party, and it was clear to me that what was said by Mr Kofod. Peter Kofod's side or the one who wasn't Mr. Peter Kofod and also didn't have his appearance on the film... very badly matched what is DF's policy, and as I know Mr. Peter Kofod too. But it turned out I was the only one in here who could figure it out. And now it is not because I say that the members of parliament in here who have been asked are the wisest in the world, but if you cannot as a member of parliament see through it, there is, of course, also a challenge in terms of whether the people can see through it. So I hope that when we come to some legislation on this, if we are to legislate further on it, we do not mean that we create laws that make it harder to express ourselves freely, but that we make guidelines that ensure that the individual is protected from libel, from defamation and from identity theft, which is today a little difficult to define in the legislation, and which, for a large part, are not subject to criminal liability, as we have understood it, and that we also keep the focus on the fact that this critical sense of being here we must stick to, and if we do not have it as adults, we must make an extra effort to ensure that young people get it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154326	Thank you for that to Mrs Pernille Vermund. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154334	It's a really bad thing when there's disinformation spreading in a society, and I'm annoyed every day if I get to open up to the Extra Bladet or B.T. and there read that our lives are determined by how the stars stand when we are born. Because that's obviously untrue. Everyone knows it's untrue, everyone should know it's untrue, but there are actually some people who believe that it is the position of the stars at our birth time that determines how our lives evolve. And it spreads every single day in e.g. The extra magazine and B.T. say this is the case, and no one has intervened against it. I'm shook up! You can also follow on social media, for example. former MP, sir. Pelle Dragsted, who tells about how Denmark will be a happy country if it abolishes private property and capitalism and instead introduces socialism. Every reasonable person knows that's not true. I do not know how many times socialism has been experimented with, and it ends in poverty and poverty. So there is also disinformation spread through, for example. Mr. Pelle Dragsted on Twitter. So misinformation spreads, and it's hard to do anything about it. There is some misinformation that is more serious than anything else, and we already have legislation against it. I'm 100% sure if you make a video with, for example. Mr. Peter Kofod, who is acting and apparently saying some words that he does not really say, then criminals against a law by sending out the video probably in the category identity theft or the like. So we have legislation against the worst misinformation, which is most harmful to individual people, and that also applies if that misinformation is spread on social media. What we have to rely on is that we have a population which is capable, as far as possible, of taking a critical view of the miinformation that is disseminated to them, whether through B.T. and Extra Magazine or social media. And then we must appeal to high industry standards in the sector of social media. In fact, I think that social media take the task rather seriously. I think that social media, including Facebook, are devoting a lot of effort to developing mechanisms by which, through feedback from other users, they can sort out things that run counter to their guidelines on how to behave in the public debate. The traditional media have had such guidelines for as long as they have existed. It is not the case that there is free access to express themselves on TV 2 or in Jyllands-Posten; you have to live up to the standards set by the media. And so now social media are setting standards today too. I sometimes find that politicians are too delicate in relation to the regulation that the social media themselves make. I mean, as soon as the social media find out that some kind of disinformation campaign is going on about, for example. some right-wing Englishman and would like to strike down on it, then shout about, among other things. from the Danish People's Party that Facebook is certainly not allowed to do so. Facebook must not have its own guidelines that put an end to a disinformation campaign about a right-wing English type that is claimed to be innocent and persecuted by the authorities and everything. I think we should have the confidence in the media that they can find a way of setting some guidelines for the debate. Instead of demanding political regulation of the debate, we have to deal with the fact that there are good industry standards, and if there is a single medium that at some point goes completely crazy without wanting to set reasonable limits for the debate, then we can talk about it again. Until then, however, I believe that we can have some confidence that social media handle as well as possible the huge amount of information that is spread through local media. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154832	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154834	I cannot quite see in the criminal code what it would be for regulations that criminalise what we call deepfakes, i.e. as in the example of Mr. Peter Kofod except if it is an injure, that is to say, that someone has said something that he has not said. Then we're gonna be out in some kind of disrespect or something like that. I'm not quite sure I understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's aversion to regulation at all. Well, Tommy Robinson, of course, you can discuss. I think it's pretty wild, as Facebook has a political approach to censoring. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentions e.g. things from the extreme left. There's a named person I can't remember who's saying some crazy things. It gets to be on Facebook, whereas if a right-wing person says something that is neither threatening nor anything else, then it can be removed. That's the absurdity that seems weird. But we do have plenty of regulation... the media liability law, which is a law, the libel law, which is a law, etc. I can't imagine that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618154945	No, and that direction also applies to social media and one's behavior on social media. It is not, of course, the case that one is not subject to the law of libel if one speaks on the social media. That is why I do not think that a new way of communicating should be an argument for a new regulation. Because it may be that the rules we have are good, no matter what channels you communicate with. However, I still think that there is a contradiction between the desire for us to have more regulation in this area and the resistance we have against the social media themselves trying to control the access to expression that they do not find in order on their own platforms. You have to admit that right. Just as traditional media are right, social media must also have the right to try to steer the debate in a way that is consistent with their perception of what a good debate is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155049	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155050	That's where I think sir. Ole Birk Olesen and I come from two different ways of looking at this. Because I really see it in the same way as I see competition law. In other words, if you as a company acquire a dominant position, there will also be some things you cannot do, as a very small company, a competitor may do. There's merger control and everything. Same way I feel about Facebook. Facebook now holds such a dominant position in the public debate that there must also be a political debate about whether the way Facebook censors, for example,. Tommy Robinson on, it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155127	After all, all people have the opportunity to make their own blog on one or the other platform. What is interesting about Facebook is that there are a lot of people gathered there. It is a value that Facebook has generated for others who also want to get there. If you violate Facebook's guidelines for Facebook, then Facebook can of course say: The value we have created here, namely that a lot of people are here with us, we actually cherish. And those people are only here because we also regulate the behavior of our platforms in a way that makes people feel like it's a nice place to be. So, of course, they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155203	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155206	Thank you. I believe that we share the wish that people should have a more critical sense of what they see, hear and read and that regulations should be reduced as much as possible. What still makes us support the proposal for adoption here is, of course, one of them. the examples to be mentioned. If you imagine that sir... Ole Birk Olesen and his party companions are produced for a long time in deepfake videos, where they come with not only semi-socialist but even whole-socialist expressions. So if you imagine that you are standing somewhere politically, but you are repeatedly portrayed as saying the opposite, not just with a quote, but where it seems to an untrained eye that it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's partymates, who say these things, Mr Ole Birk Olesen did not see that there is a new challenge that we have not had when we have been able to meet each other face to face, read something in the newspaper or hear it in an assembly house?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155317	So, first of all, I cannot imagine that you should not exceed any legislation if you take a picture of me or a video of me and, like, manipulate my mouth to say some words I never said, or if you do that to Mr. President. Peter Kofod or a third. Of course action must be taken against this. It can of course be difficult to find out who made it and who started the chain of spreading it. It's a police task that can be difficult to solve, but that's always the case. So the question is: if one can now lift the burden of proof that Facebook is willing to make itself available or another social media is willing to make itself available and does not do enough to stop the spread of such a fake video, are they complicit? I think they will do so to some extent if they do not have mechanisms to deal with this sort of thing, and I think that is something that I can also be caught up in by existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155415	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155417	But what, then, to the extent that it cannot be caught up in existing legislation? For example, as we talked about earlier, we have a party member who sits here in the Folketing and has received a message that her image and name had been used for a peak profile. It is extremely creative if you like to think that you now want to harden another person by putting them up on Tinder. Then you can pretend that the person is for one thing or another or may have different interests, which may not be entirely in line with what the person whose image and name is on the profile is for. It wasn't a felony, according to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155501	It surprises me that it is not punishable by an identity theft of that nature. And I find it hard to imagine that the police's assessment that it's not a felony is correct. I have sometimes experienced that the police will not take up cases because they say it is below the de minimis limit or something, although the law should prescribe that such a case should be dealt with. But if the police even claim that this, which I consider to be an identity theft, is not a criminal offence, then I wonder, and I doubt it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155534	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618155545	Thank you for the debate, which, to be perfectly honest, given the seriousness of it has been a bit bloodless. It can be seen that there are some members of parliament who are beginning to need vacation. So I think we should go further in the open sandal next time we have this type of debate. However, let me comment on that a little bit. I was wondering, and now all sorts of considerations can be considered... if you could dig back and find such examples of deep fake from earlier, where you would say that it was there before we had the social media, and I couldn't think of it. The closest thing I could think of, and the story I'd like to pass on to you is a story from the Faculty of Law. I think we have to go back to the late 1970s, when there were two famous professors, Ole Espersen and Ole Krarup. The story is as follows: Ole Espersen has the opportunity to be admitted to Kraks Blue Book, which everyone who is just a little self-pretentious would like, and has his papers where he has written his credits, lying on his desk. Ole Krarup, another capable lawyer, now deceased, walks by and goes in and adds such a star in Ole Espersen's description of himself and then writes below that he is an honorary member of present Danish heroes. And this is being sent to Kraks Blue Book, and I can't remember whether it's in the 1977 edition or the 1979 edition, where if you look up under Ole Espersen, you can simply see that it says that Ole Espersen is also an honorary member of the association now living Danish heroes. After all, it is very innocent and all the way back from a time when the premises were different, and in fact it was very funny. It's probably gonna be checked out if I'm right, but I know because I checked it myself, and I don't remember if it's the 77 or 79 edition. But there you can simply see it here, and it's in all its innocence fine enough and didn't lead to any legal after-play at all. But what we are dealing with now is quite different in character, and I must not drag you through all the elements where I think there is a need to do something. So, you could say, if we now take and say that these social media can be subject to public regulation or can be subject to private regulation, then there are a number of different groups that can be looked at in this way. If you take the users of social media, yes, it is the case that if you express yourself on social media, you are responsible for any illegal statements. For example, as has also been mentioned, it may be Section 266B of the Penal Code, i.e. the racism clause. Racial statements on social media are punishable. The private regulation here for users is a very, very weak position, because it typically depends on a private-law relationship where the individual user of Facebook cannot say to Facebook: I will not accept your premises for what I have to say on social media or what you want to remove etc. So there is a weak relationship which, of course, gives rise to some reflection on how to deal with it. With regard to the traditional media and public regulation, there is, of course, editor responsibility through media law regulation, but the private-law relationship here again depends on what has been agreed. After all, there are good reasons, and we all accept this, a very, very far-reaching access to regulation and exclusion. It is not the case that because one writes a letter of reading that others have also mentioned it, one is entitled to have Berlingske Tidende print it well enough in many contexts. And then there is what we have in some way revolved a little about: social media and public regulation. I mean, this is where we are faced with a situation where social media have developed and where there is no regulation. It may be subject to some criminal liability for participation in social media, but it is a little thoughtful. And that's one of the areas that I think we're going to look into. As far as private law is concerned, we are back to the same thing as before, namely that some will say that it is fine, because it is the market that has regulated it. And others will say that there is probably a need for two as unequal parties as the individual user and social media make up for the big difference as there is. This is exactly one of the things we are looking into, and it is just to illustrate the complexity of the problem and some of the problems that I think we need to get around when we embark on the regulation of the area, what I think we are going to do. And where, as I hear, there will be a great deal of parties that agree that we will have to do something here. But thank you very much for the debate and for the problematisation once more, not least to the Danish People's Party, which has raised the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618160139	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As far as I can see, no one else has asked to speak and that concludes the debate. As mentioned at the beginning of the debate, it will be the case that the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 23 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618160209	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618160235	Thank you for the floor, President. The Danish People's Party has proposed that the government should draw up a new international strategy in the field of trade. The aim is thus to put pressure on China to ban the so-called wet markets in order to avoid future pandemics and to ensure China's compliance with WTO rules. The resolution addresses important issues and I look forward to today's debate. But that does not change the fact that the premise of the proposal is wrong. Firstly, because the fight against pandemics cannot be reduced to a question of banning specific markets, where, moreover, it would be counterproductive to focus only on one country. Secondly, because regulation of food markets does not belong in the WTO. That is why, on behalf of the government, I propose that the proposal be rejected. First of all, let me justify the element of prevention of pandemics and then the issue of WTO reform. With the proposal, the proposers address a very important issue. How do we avoid new pandemics such as covid-19 in the future? That is the key question. We are in the midst of a global pandemic with devastating consequences for almost the whole world. How do we prevent this from happening again? How can Denmark contribute to a safer world with reduced risk of emerging new viruses? One crucial area is how to prevent new diseases from being transmitted from animals to humans. And I agree with the proposers that the current situation makes it quite relevant to focus on unsafe local food markets with wild animals. However, if we are to avoid the contamination of new viruses between animals and humans, we need to address the issue more closely. I am therefore also here today on behalf of the entire government, including the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Food, the Minister for Development and the Minister for Health, because the global challenge goes across sectors. It is particularly about reducing health and food, but also climate and environmental change plays an increasing role in the spread of new and also existing diseases. However, the motion for a resolution proposes looking only at Chinese food markets. A narrow focus on China and a narrow focus on food markets will not make the world a safer place in government optics. We have previously seen outbreaks of new viruses from elsewhere in Asia, from the Middle East and from Africa. Local markets in which wild animals are traded are a widespread phenomenon in many countries, unfortunately. These are markets which, of course, are subject to the national rules of the countries concerned, and several countries, including China, have recently initiated changes. And then it's not just a question of markets. If we are to effectively prevent the infection of new diseases from animals to humans, many other factors are involved. The government's position is that the issue of prevention of new pandemics is most effectively addressed through the EU by taking initiatives in the relevant international organisations. It is the World Animal Health Organisation, it is the World Health Organisation, and it is the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. In relation to local markets, Denmark will work actively for international regulation via the EU. On the Danish side, the case has already been raised in the circle of EU veterinary managers. An important signal in this regard would be an international ban on the marketing of live wild animals and livestock in markets under poor hygienic conditions. However, a ban is only effective if it is enforced in practice and not just moves trade to illegals and there must of course be room for food markets where conditions are in order, as many people depend on these markets to get food on the table. But we are dealing with a complex and global problem. It is not enough for us to focus our attention on food markets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why the government will also focus on the problems of e.g. UN Environment Programme UNEP. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that preventing infection from animals to humans is only part of the equation. We also need to learn from the covid-19 and look at our global pandemic preparedness. So, how did things go wrong, and why did we, as a world society, fail to respond early and effectively enough to contain the virus? The government supports a strong and independent WHO. Together with the European Union, we have pressed and led the work for an ambitious resolution at the World Health Assembly in May. Here we have ensured focus on an independent evaluation of what we can learn from the handling of covid-19. In future, we must ensure both at home and globally the prevention of pandemics, both those we do not know about today and those already in circulation. The proposers only focus on China in the motion for a resolution. I agree that China is a key player and it is perfectly legitimate, indeed necessary, to ask questions about China's action in connection with the Covid-19 pandemic. But a global challenge requires a global approach. If we focus too closely only on criticising and isolating China on this issue, which is so crucial for Denmark, we risk destroying the possibility of the necessary cooperation with China, both bilaterally and internationally. That is the diplomatic reality. The way to effectively change matters in relevant countries, including China, is through binding global decisions that the countries concerned participate in and feel responsible for. I admit that this requires a long, tough and difficult move, but only in this way can Denmark's real interests be best safeguarded. Let me now turn to the issue of China's compliance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. The Government agrees with the proposers that the WTO is currently not in a position to effectively address the challenges posed by unfair commercial practices such as inadequate enforcement of intellectual property rights or opaque state subsidies. Here, the main challenge is a little square: the WTO rules are out of date with China and other countries with strong government management of the economy. As a small open country, Denmark is deeply dependent on a well-functioning multilateral trading system. That is why the government attaches great importance to the Danish side, through the European Union, strengthening efforts to modernise the WTO rules. The organisation must be reformed so that more up-to-date rules can be dealt with, i.e. the concrete challenges facing our companies in the global economy. The reform efforts must have a broad aim of ensuring less and uniform global conditions of competition for all WTO members rather than focusing on individual countries. We must work through the European Union, both because the WTO and trade policy are EU competence and because it is the most effective. Each Member State is, in fact, too small to influence the global rules of play. Only by standing together and speaking with one strong voice can we achieve positive changes. The European Union is already taking a leading role in reforming and modernising the WTO. As far as unfair commercial practices are concerned, the EU has two objectives in its reform efforts. Firstly, the future set of rules must promote greater respect for the spirit of the WTO, that is. the underlying assumption of market economy development and limited government governance. Secondly, it must be easier to respond to specific market distorting policies and practices. The resolution only mentions China, but unfair commercial practices are a broader challenge. However, given China's weight and importance in the global economy, I agree that it makes sense to have particular expectations of Chinese behaviour because it affects so many other players. The European Union has changed its approach to China significantly in recent years. It is clear, in particular, in the Joint Communication from the Commission and the Joint Foreign Service of March 2019. At the same time, China is defined as an indispensable partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival. The division and importance of balancing the three aspects with each other, the government agrees. For at the same time as the unequal competition and market conditions experienced by Danish companies in China, there is also great potential. This applies, for example, to China's green transition, which escapes well with Danish commercial strength positions and also shows that China is an important partner in the climate area. So the solution is not to turn your back on China. Instead, we must work for better framework conditions globally and on the Chinese market. The EU is working in three ways to change Chinese trade behaviour. In the WTO, the EU works closely with the United States, Japan and bilaterally with China for stricter rules on state subsidies. In this context, other aspects of WTO reform are also discussed, which the EU also addresses in G7, OECD and G20 contexts. Bilaterally, the European Union is negotiating with China an ambitious investment agreement which should, in particular, give European companies more fair conditions in China. In the light of China's trade agreement with the United States from January this year, the so-called 1-agreement, the European Union also has dialogue with China to ensure equal treatment of US and European exporters on the Chinese market. The European Union will be encouraged by, among other things: Denmark, address these issues at the virtual summit with China here later in June. Thirdly, the European Union has its own trade policy toolbox. There has been a great deal of attention within the EU community to ensure that the instruments necessary to address the growing competitive challenge of, among other things, China. In addition to a new update of the defensive trade instruments, the Commission published yesterday a White Paper on foreign subsidies in the internal market which contains concrete proposals for the management of companies competing in the internal market with State aid from their home countries. Furthermore, the EU regulation on a common framework for the screening of foreign investment will enter into force in October of this year. So the EU is already doing a lot, and the government will continue to actively contribute to that work. The European Union must be our guarantor of a global trade policy that is free, fair and sustainable. And the EU must proactively set the agenda so that we become rulers or rulers instead of rulers. In this respect, we must work for continued close transatlantic cooperation. The alliance with the United States has been at the heart of the international rule-based world order since World War II, and it will continue to be central to Danish and European interests. That is why, in the EU circle, I have just called at the Council meeting here on 15 June to continue to seek a strengthened and constructive dialogue with the United States. That's what we have to do when it's hard, and sometimes it's hard. That is, for example, the case. not beneficial for commercial cooperation across the Atlantic when the United States imposes WTO-unbridled tariffs on European steel and aluminium. Therefore, in a joint speech with my Finnish and Swedish colleague, the US Secretary of State, Pompeo, who attended the meeting the other day, I call on you to focus on our converging interests in fair and global trade conditions and also multilateral solutions. For well enough it takes longer and is more difficult to get into place, one in the long run it is the most durable. We cannot risk the failure of the multilateral trading system due to a lack of commitment on the part of the large Member States. Finally, let me state that there are certainly relevant elements in the resolution that the government agrees with, in other words, that Denmark should take an active approach. However, the proposal is wrong and, as I have pointed out today, will not help prevent future pandemics or ensure fair trade practices. It is therefore in this light that, on behalf of the government, I call for the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to be rejected. But, of course, I hope for a good debate, because I think that what the proposers are also proposing, namely a good debate on those issues, is quite relevant. This is an important debate which I think it is a good thing that we are also taking here in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161550	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161555	It could not have been an easy speech for the Foreign Minister to read out, in other words, to have to put his words with rose petals in front of a regime like China. After all, this is not the person we should name by name today, but who we should call the Foreign Minister. That illustrates the problem we are facing so indirectly. We are dealing with a brutal dictatorship that suppresses its own people and thus maintains a competitive situation vis-à-vis the rest of the world that just makes them richer and richer. They have now reached such a position of strength, both militarily and economically, that the Foreign Minister of the freest free countries does not dare to correct criticism; not even the wet markets, which repeatedly lay down the world with pandemics, must be mentioned with an address to China, because then you get mad at the embassy. I would just like to thank the Secretary of State, in this way very evocantly and indirectly, to emphasise what the problem really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161701	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161703	I would like to knock a stake through some notion that the government does not have a desire to deal with pandemics or wet markets or reasons why pandemics occur, also in terms of preventing it in the future. What is probably the difference here between the Danish People's Party and the government is that we want, on the one hand, a broad approach, because preventing pandemics requires more than focusing only on wet markets, although it is really important in itself, and, on the other, an approach anchored in the multilateral cooperation that I mentioned earlier. It is because it is important that the rules are made together and respected jointly and that the countries that are involved feel responsible for it. Otherwise it will be a paper tiger and it will not be something we can enforce in practice. That's what we're interested in. We will make a real difference in order to prevent pandemics in the future. I hope the Danish People's Party will support this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161752	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161753	No, I would say to the Foreign Minister, what is the difference is that the Foreign Minister is afraid and hopes that Denmark is the last to be struck by China's anger. I am nervous and will therefore make it so that Denmark will be the first to act against China's anger. I'm sure the Foreign Minister will remember what happened recently in Australia, when Australia correctly and reasonably criticised China in relation to these wet markets. Immediately there were sanctions against Australia on the part of China. What this proposal is proposing is that we make a musketeer out of all democratic and free countries, so that China cannot take us one by one with their Communist threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161831	But it is not enough to ban wet markets in China. It is important to ban wet markets wherever the pandemic comes from. I hope that the Danish People's Party will participate in this. If we are to have a real effect against covid-19 and other pandemics, we must tackle what is the root of the problem. It is true that it wants the government to be anchored in the international organisations, in other words in the cooperation that we have, because that is the way we can deliver, also so that the countries feel the responsibility to do something about it. So I'm gonna beat a stake again through that myth that we're not gonna take this up. This is something very dear to the government and I have explained very comprehensively what is the most effective strategy to stem future pandemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161912	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618161915	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that it must be seen in the broadest possible range in order to hit the total risk of this disease; in another disease there may be something else we need to look at. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he agrees with those who look at biodiversity in relation to pandemics. Well, we say that we are fighting the diseases that are coming, but that it is a very low level. We are trying to prevent by not having anywhere where it can develop, but we could also look at the UN climate targets and say that biodiversity actually plays a role here, because if we do not preserve biodiversity, we will really open up even more pandemics because we are becoming more vulnerable. Perhaps that context is not quite clear, so what is the point now? But if you look at what the scientists say that talk about it, then there's actually a lot of logic in saying that we have to make sure that we have a great deal of biodiversity on the planet to minimize these pandemics that can occur because we're too vulnerable. What does the Minister think of that theory?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162022	Well, here I am in complete agreement with Mr. Christian Juhl. Well, what we see, not just at this pandemic, but actually, a lot of viruses and epidemics, is that it's something that jumps from animals to humans. And without being professional in the food sector, animals and people, as well as the environment and nature... it's not my resort... anyway, I would like to say that an important point is that when we reach, for example. If climate change and deforestation and people and animals are getting closer together, wild animals and people, livestock and people, then everything else is just a greater risk of emerging new diseases. That is why the broad approach is important. Action against climate change is also important in order to actually also help prevent future pandemics. So I fully agree with the questioner, and that is also why the government has this broad approach in order to be able to take concrete action in each of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162115	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162116	Now I don't think it's just about how close you are to the animals. So it is also about which immune systems you build by having a variety of nature and everything else. That is why I would like to hear: will the Minister help us to strengthen, for example? The World Health Organization, the World Health Organization, even more so that they can get all the way ahead and not just run on the heels of one disease after another? For that fight, we can risk losing. We were close to this one because it was so extensive and it went so fast that no one, actually no country on this planet, was prepared for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162153	In other words, we have played a very active role in the World Health Organisation, the WHO, among others. in order to secure a resolution at the World Health Assembly on an evaluation of the entire covid-19 and to find out what the whole reason was for the birth of the covid-19, what the reactions have been and what we can learn from it, so that we stand better prepared forward. This is absolutely crucial and very important. We have a great Danish commitment to the WHO, and we must continue to have that, and now I stand here as Foreign Minister, but I would like to say that this is something that the government has a very high priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162231	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162236	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. The Minister emphasizes that pressure must be exerted from here, through an EU investigation into the EU and also further under the auspices of the UN, but what is the Foreign Minister's attitude to his colleague from Australia's proposal for an international investigation into precisely the cause and spread of the virus? The second question is a short one: when you are going to look at the fact that the trade relations that you have with China have just changed both in the United States and as mentioned in the European Union, what about Denmark's trade strategy towards China? How does the government feel about changing it as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162315	As I have said, it is really important and crucial that we have the causes of covid-19 investigated and evaluated. That is why, at a meeting of the World Health Organization, a resolution was adopted which Denmark was also very active in securing. 'Cause we gotta get things out of here. It is the best way to prevent it from repeating itself. Then I think that a proper way of doing this is for the countries to be members and to have obligations. I think it is important to have the World Health Organisation. In relation to trade with China, we must remember that, as the questioner knows, of course, we have a common EU trade policy, and there I am very pleased with the announcement which came last spring that China, it can be said, is both an economic partner, but also a systemic rival and a competitor, and that is important. Because we must ensure that the commercial practices that are taking place are fair. There are a lot of challenges at the moment, and that is why it is this government's position that we should address it, including through the European Union, in order to strengthen our interests, including with China and other partners who do not comply with the trade rules that we ourselves are subject to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162421	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162422	Thank you for that, but I am not sure I was given an answer as to whether the Minister will support Australia's proposal. There is also a time perspective, and it is fine to go through the international organisations that we ourselves support, but that has not yet happened. So what about Australia's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162442-2	Now I do not know exactly what lies in Australia's proposals, but I would like to say when it comes to an evaluation of the role of covid-19 and WHO, and how we resolve how the disease arose and how to deal with it and how to do it better, that then I think it is really wise and important that it also lies in the World Health Organisation, of which Denmark and other countries are members. Because that's where we need to ensure proper preparedness that can deal with a new pandemic or a new pandemic in the future, and I hope it won't happen another wave of covid-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162514	The next brief remark is to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162518	Thank you for that and thank you to the Secretary of State. I agree, in a way, with one hundred percent, that this must be done internationally and that Denmark cannot go alone. Where I may not be quite as optimistic as the government is, how far we can reach within the EU. In other words, is the government willing that, if we cannot achieve the objective of the European Union, we should create a coalition of willing countries? We have seen that Canada, the United States, Great Britain, Australia, Sweden etc. has been there with very clear messages that we should close wet markets in China and are also willing to step up and do so. Is it a collection of countries that Denmark could join if it is not possible to get the EU to agree on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162604	I certainly have not given up on having a strong EU voice on this issue, including Sweden, which is also an EU country, and that is important. As I said, I believe, as I said in my reply, that it is wet markets in general whether it is in China or other countries in Asia or Africa. Unfortunately, we have seen viruses occur in many places, and that is why we want something that not only targets one country, but also the whole problem of how epidemics and pandemics occur. So Denmark is actively working for this, also with other countries, and I have nothing against dialogue and alliances with others. However, I think it is important for the European Union to have a strong voice as a whole. I think that is the best guarantee that we will actually succeed in the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162648	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162649	Thank you. I interpret this as a positive response, and I agree that it is not just about China. The problem is that, as far as I know, China is the only country that still maintains the possibility of having wet markets. The other countries such as Vietnam, Thailand etc. They have shut it down and said they will not reopen such wet markets. So it is only China, as I understand it, which is stubbornly holding onto the fact that one still wants to be able to open such wet markets, and that is why we are talking about China. But of course such a decision must be made globally. But right now there is only one country that is lagging behind, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162727	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162728	Whether it is only China or it is also other countries, and also how big the problem is in relation to, for example, China. I simply do not have detailed knowledge of illegal wet markets, where wild animals and animals are also being traded closely between people, because it is not my resort either. However, I would very much like to note the point of view. And I fully agree that we have a common interest in getting things done. I think that some international, robust rules that close this problem once and for all, and that is the view of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162757	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is the start of the rapporteur's round, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162819	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate, which focuses on China and on preventing the spread of epidemics. This is a very important debate, not least in the light of the covid-19, which the whole world has been affected by and still is. However, we cannot support the proposal. We do not believe that the problem alone can be isolated to be about China. There are certainly many things that can be criticised for, and many things that should have been done differently, not least when it comes to openness, but the problem of so-called wet markets is not only confined to China, it is also a problem elsewhere, and this is also something that China has begun to address. We need to seek dialogue with China and the rest of the world in order to fight future epidemics together, and here it is not only about food markets, but also about climate change, forest burnings and more things that need to be dealt with. That is precisely why the European Union is a good instrument for us to use, together with other countries, the organisations that already exist, for example. The WHO and the United Nations Organisation for Agriculture and Food, just as we will jointly press for reforms in cooperation with our allies elsewhere in the world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162921	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Oops, that's enough. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618162938	I fell right up the stairs; this is an important matter and you should not fall into your argument, so I try not to. Instead of saying that I am actually very pleased with the Minister's approach to the whole resolution. We in the Left are very much in agreement with the Danish People's Party that it is really important that we stop wet markets all over the world and that China's action in this matter is critical because China holds to both the right to reopen wet markets, but at the same time has created all sorts of obstacles with regard to the international observers from the WHO, they have put out disinformation about the start of the entire covid-19, etc. So there is much to criticise China for. I just don't believe in and the Left doesn't believe that we can handle such a situation on the Danish side alone. That's why it's important that we do this internationally. I agree with the government that we should try to take all possible steps to allow the European Union to speak with a voice on this issue. At the same time, however, I think it is important that, if that is not possible, we should reserve the right to form part of other alliances, for example. an alliance with those countries which, fortunately, have begun to speak more freely about China's action as a problem for the stability of the world. I think that is very positive. We have among other things. Seen Sweden, which is not exactly a superpower, dared to do this lately. All in all, we think it is important for the approach to be taken internationally, and we also think it is important that we may also look elsewhere than just the solo European Union. So all in all there are very positive tactics in the Danish People's Party's proposal. We will vote against it when it comes to a possible vote, but we hope that we can find a common ground in relation to the government so that we can have a common course on the part of the Folketing so that we can pull together in this important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163205	It is just to clarify: this proposal is, after all, about Denmark not China being in 10 years' time economically at the level of the United States, and the European Union cannot match that at all. So if we are to have the slightest chance to ensure that China becomes a player on the international platform that the rapporteur is talking about, then we must, as we know it from NATO, make a musketeer between the countries with which we feel we share values, and that is what this proposal is all about. So it's not a solo walk, on the contrary. It is almost written out of the rapporteur's own way of looking at life: that we have to find the countries with which we share views on China and then make an alliance so that the Chinese Government cannot just push us around by who they seem to be a little soft in the sun.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163305	But the difference is that the Danish People's Party's proposal specifically mentions China, and it is indeed the case that we believe that wet markets are just as bad, whether they are in Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan or where they are now. This is just as big a problem, and that is why we think it is important in the fight against wet markets that this should be done by a global decision, and indeed I have already illustrated this in my question to the Minister for Justice. Then I agree that where we are probably going to fight most is in relation to China, but the decision itself must be that it is wet markets globally that must be banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163341	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163342	There will be no opposition from the Danish People's Party against banning wet markets globally. I would very much like to give that to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. In return, will he do me the favour of mentioning a pandemic that has emerged from a wet market that was not Chinese?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163358	No, I cannot, and therefore I would like to acknowledge that wet markets have been a problem, also in relation to the SARS epidemic. I recognise it 100%, and that is why we actually agree on the objective, and that is why I said in my speech that I hope that we, together with the government, can reach a broad consensus, perhaps even unanimously, on how and how we can ban wet markets globally and, above all, deal with the situation that we must have created this common alliance of countries with, among other things, countries. China, but also other countries. So I think we are in agreement, and that is why I think we should stick to that consensus and try to see how we achieve this goal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163434	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163446	Thank you for a well-laid proposal from the Danish People's Party. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that he has actually succeeded in doing so. Morten Messerschmidt to make a whole motion for a resolution that the West must stand together against China, without mentioning the European Union in one place in the resolution as a whole. This is great, especially given that it is probably the European Union that is the only player who can bring this up to the WTO level. After all, we are in the extremely boring situation of the United States currently boycotting the WTO. In any case, they have put down the entire dispute system by not appointing legal judges for it. And just as much the United States and Trump have gone out and have addressed bilateral problems with China and trade, as one can, in part, agree with just as tragic is the fact that one has not chosen to take that fight in a multilateral framework with the European Union, namely in the WTO, where one should take the whole fight that is about China as of course as everyone else, including the United States, that is probably why they have not done so, living up to the same international trade rules as all of us. We agree with that. But there are two reasons why we cannot support the proposal. One is that you don't dare call the most important player in this field by name. It is irresponsible, because it starts in the European Union. Also because it is true that the European Union is not the world's largest economy, but it is actually the world's largest market. There is no economy in the world, either China, the United States, India or anyone else that can do without access to the European market. That is why the EU is the key player in this issue. This also applies to the second reason why we cannot support it immediately, even if we support the intention of the proposal. We believe that when it comes to getting China to comply, and we fully agree on this, the same rules as everyone else, and when it comes to tightening up the global rules for wet markets and all sorts of other sources of pandemics, it makes better sense to take a general approach. It is not because I dare not say that China must also be forced to comply with the same rules, because they must clearly do so, but because I believe that we must strive for global multilateral agreements that apply to everyone, rather than making a lex China or a lex India or a lex anything. I think that is a wiser approach if you want to achieve results de facto: real global agreements addressing these issues. So there are two reasons. I am not afraid to mention by name that I also find it very problematic that China has acted as they have, and apparently among other things. has held back information from the WHO in connection with covid-19. It is, of course, highly questionable, and we must have an independent cover-up of it, just as we must have a stronger WHO and a stronger WTO that can make all countries in this world, nobody mentioned and nobody forgotten, should of course comply with the same rules, both when it comes to trade and when it comes to protecting the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163755	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618163808	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to agree that international cooperation creates the best framework for a just world. I also agree that when you are a member of a community, you commit it. This applies to both large and small countries. There is every reason to criticise China, and we must do so too, and I must be the first to criticise China, among others. their lack of human rights. However, before we escalate the situation and call for unilateral action, I would urge that we look for all diplomatic options. This applies both to the prohibition of wet markets and to compliance with trade rules. Wet markets don't belong anywhere. Unfortunately, however, unsanitary markets for the sale of wild animals are not just a Chinese problem, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. In several places in Asia, Africa and the Middle East there are such things. Through international cooperation, we should work for a global ban. In addition, both the UN and the WHO should be given the necessary support to prevent future epidemics. We need coordinated action, and so it is not only China that we need to get back to the negotiating table. With regard to compliance with WTO trade practices, it is clear that we must get all members of the club to play according to the same rules. And even though the WTO is not a perfect organisation, the WTO is a necessary means of creating conditions for trade at a global level. We must therefore do all we can to strengthen cooperation within the WTO and, fortunately, we are part of a club which has the necessary muscles to exert pressure on other major powers. The European Union is our best way of bringing about the necessary changes. And change is needed both when it comes to global health and trade challenges. I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna bite that too. Morten Messerschmidt in his comments on the proposal argues that one can best influence others when lifting in groups. So, in a page note, I would like to call on Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to bring this kind of logic in future readings of EU cooperation. In conclusion, I would like to say that the SF cannot support the motion for a resolution, as we think it is too one-sided. However, we would like to help to promote better conditions and dialogue through the organisations mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164105	There is no doubt that the Covid-19 pandemic has once again focused on the human treatment of animals and, above all, on the so-called wet fields, where confined live animals, wild animals, are traded and sold under more or less unhummy conditions both from a health professional point of view, but also from a purely animal ethical point of view. That is why we fully agree with the authors of the motion that this is the right time to discuss what the international community can do to ban these wet-fields with live animals and what can be done to prevent human interaction with animals from triggering new pandemics. With current history in mind, of course, we also understand that the proposers focus on China, but as others have said, we also believe that the problem involves much more than China. Wet markets with live animals are found in many countries all over the world, not just in Asia. They exist all over the world, but of course also in Asia. Thousands of such markets can be found in Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Laos, Cambodia and Burma, and the danger of infection is just as great there, which is among other things. was documented in the Australian TV programme •60 Minutes • some time ago. Then we must tackle the problem, we need a broader approach than just talking about China and how China can be pushed through the WTO. The narrowed approach is not only likely to be rejected by China as a matter of course we can live with it, but it is also likely to lead to us staring blindly at part of the problem, but overlooking the rest, and that is no good. For, as we have seen with the recent covid-19 pandemic, it is simply a weak link in the chain that can have consequences for the peoples of the world. The international problem needs to be dealt with at international level, which is why we are also very pleased that the UN's chief biodiversity chief Elizabeth Maruma Merma from Tanzania has been perfectly clear in his criticism of wet markets, including those in Africa, and has been perfectly clear in his call to all countries around the world to ban these wet markets as a tool to avoid future pandemics. How, then, do we proceed along that path towards a total stop in the world for these markets? What tools are needed to get it through? I am sure that a number of tools are needed, as these markets are linked to a combination of, for example. superstitions, old traditions and poor people's opportunity to earn a small penny. Can the WTO also be used in this context? Absolutely. The WTO can also be applied, and we also think that we need to look into this in committee, but it is also clear that the WTO alone cannot solve this problem. We will be very open to continuing the discussion in committee and, if that is true, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left said that wet markets have been banned anywhere other than in China. It is surprising to me that it has of course also an impact on where we land definitively. In any case, we will be open to drawing up a joint report summing up a number of the tools to be used to achieve the goal of shutting down wet markets in all countries on the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164519	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. This is Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164528	Thank you. I am continuing in Glee Club here of roughly the same analyses, because wet markets and the WTO are not the way forward to prevent a similar outbreak of covid-19. It may be a way to punish China if that is what you want, but it is too narrow simply to discuss wet markets and corona and a WTO strategy. So the DF proposal misses something, which is why we cannot support it. It is about what can now be called zoonotic diseases, i.e. a new word. the diseases which originate from wild animals and are transmitted to humans and which develop into pandemics. Recent research shows that 60%. of all known infectious diseases and approx. 75% of new infectious diseases in humans are zoonotic diseases. Why is this happening? Well, UN environmental organizations and WWF stress that the cause of this type of disease is our dysfunctional relationship with nature. We have spread to natural habitats, and the 21st century's cocktail of environmental and climate challenges such as the destruction of ecosystems, the loss of species and global warming, illegal trade in endangered species and close contact with wild animals significantly increases this risk, while globalisation of course speeds it up. Specifically on wet-fields, there is already a proposal to stop activity with these endangered species, between wild animals and domestic animals, which are to be separated, and animals which are part of natural food. For it is actually some parts of wet markets that are quite excellent, for example. where you cannot cool fish that then swim around in a bathtub or other. So that's not all that can be said to be a wet market. But politically, we should also be aware that this time it was China that was the country of origin. Ebola probably originated in Congo, and swine flu was North American. So this by blaming a single country of zoonotic disease outbreaks instead of cooperating and finding solutions internationally, we in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that this is the serious way and the right way, because this is a serious problem. We'll see more of it. Over 100,000 people have died and health systems are collapsing, and many countries are experiencing an economic recession. If there is a real will, all countries come under pressure and to conform, including China, and realistically Denmark must go through the EU and the UN to make it work. That work will cover both the prevention, testing and management of world trade in the event of an outbreak of a pandemic. However, in the area of trade, it is clear that, after more than 20 years of WTO membership, China is playing according to its own rules and is increasingly setting them as a standard. Therefore, Denmark in the European Union and together with other like-minded work for more reciprocity and reciprocity, but we must distinguish between China as a member of the WTO and zoonotic diseases, the animal-related pandemics. Finally, we could also look at the proposals made by the Australian Foreign Minister, Marise Payne, that there should be an international investigation of China to find out what the cause of this spread is if it does not move quickly enough in an international context, and we think Denmark should look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164906	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618164919	Thank you for the floor. New citizens recognise the good intentions of the proposal. There are many good reasons to be critical of China; the corona epidemic has highlighted this once again. The Chinese authorities are aware of the problem of wet markets. According to the DR on 22 May, Wuhan is now finished selling and eating wild animals; the authorities will also protect Wuhan's wild wildlife, and therefore it should not be allowed to hunt animals. If China took responsibility in this area, it would be gratifying. However, we should be sceptical about whether it is implemented and respected in relation to the government being required to draw up a strategy for China in the field of trade, including ensuring China's compliance with WTO rules. I am convinced that the Danish Government is already addressing the issues mentioned in B 169 in various international forums. That work must be continued, and preferably in stronger cooperation with like-minded countries, but that Denmark can and must be a pioneer in an international strategy to bring together an international coalition against China, I am not sure. However, stronger cooperation should be welcomed by the government to the extent that it can be built up. In new citizens we do not therefore believe that there is a need for parliamentary resolution B 169 and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618165044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As I see no rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President, the floor is now ready to be given to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618165058	Thank you, President. Nearly 20 years ago, the world got to know a new acronym, a new word. It became an epidemic, the SARS epidemic, which spread from a Chinese wet market and around the world, which was gripped by fear over this new disease that everyone had a hard time dealing with. For a while, the Chinese government banned wet markets, but since after a few months there seemed to be calm matters, they were again allowed to do so in all the horrors that it is both from a pandemic health point of view but, indeed, from an animal welfare point of view too, must be said to be. Well, here we are again. This time it was just even more serious for the whole world than it was almost 20 years ago with sars. Thousands of people have died of covid-19. The whole world's economy has been rocked. People lose their jobs and have to leave house and home, watching their life project crumble between their hands. Again, because a Chinese wet market has proved to be the creative place where new viruses can arise and spread from animals to humans. Again the West hesitates, shakes its hand, and today, in a different way, because China has become somewhat richer, stronger, larger in the 20 years that have passed. We know that China's economy can stand shoulder to shoulder with the American economy in ten years' time. Even now, we know that China can produce the weapons they need to wage wars both against their own people and who else it may be. And we know that a large number of our allies, including Denmark itself, are deeply dependent even on critical infrastructure. Several of our allies feel the same way. We saw a study by the Henry Jackson Society quite recently show that countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom are dependent on 550 different product categories of critical nature that come from China today. The question is, then, whether China, as a country, as a regime, is a country that you want to be in your pocket. Because if it isn't, it's about to be the last call. In this pandemic situation alone, we've seen how you've tried to manipulate data. It's not just health data. It is of course appalling in itself that, in this situation, you might be able to submit false data to the WHO or withhold data that would prevent an infection from spreading. We have also seen ambassadors around, among other things. Here, too, in Denmark, which has vexed and whined a little over the far too bitter tone towards China and far too little praise that went from here and towards China when the opportunity had to offer itself. China is a nation which, both in its self-understanding and internationally, is a completely different place from we in Denmark, we in the West. It is time we said that if you want to be part of international world trade, if you want to be part of the international community, then it is not free. Then, whether it is domestic or foreign, you cannot scale up and beat up health in such a way that it costs thousands of people their lives, hundreds of thousands of people their jobs and potentially affects the whole world. Then it makes some demands, and the Chinese just didn't comply with those demands. What is actually the worst thing that a country like China is committing itself with such brutality, or that the rest of the world, perhaps with a single exception in the form of the United States, just look at it passively while it happens? History has to judge about that. However, the examples of China being totally cynical only looking at its own interests and being completely indifferent to the rules of the game that we other people actually agree on, whatever happens in the World Health Organisation or in the World Trade Organisation, should be obvious. Manipulation of exchange rates, deliberate speculation in violating patents and intellectual rights are linked to the way in which a China handles its own population, which would like to deport entire villages and mistreat various minorities. In addition, of course, there is the huge lac mu test: Taiwan, the small free democratic part of China, where it has to be said that the West has also failed. It was back in 2016, when no one dared to quit, when China forced the country not to participate in the World Health Organisation expert meetings. It is a country which is known to be at the top of the world when it comes to health technologies and which has also made it through the covid-19 crisis exemplary. Such a country, democracy against dictatorship, governed the rule of law against dictatorship, chose the West to fall back when it applied. The apology is obvious. As I said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just given a fantastic example of this. China has become too strong, China has become too big, China has become too important to criticise. That is why we are in a moment of fate today, and that is why the Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution. It is not just with a view to the wet markets. It is really to say that Denmark is too small and the European Union is too small to be able to play against China today, which we have for us, and which will only become stronger and richer in the years to come, especially if we have a defaitistic approach, as we hear from both the Danish Government and the European Union. The other day we saw what happens if you are too frank in your criticism of China. Australia's Prime Minister allowed himself an error, namely to point out that the covid-19 originated from the Chinese wet markets, and in a split second the reaction came. The Chinese carried out trade sanctions against cattle and other food products from Australia, after which Australia, of course, did not fall on its knees, asking for mercy and pardons, unlike other Western governments. Is the real world anno 2020 that it is we in the West who have defined, invented and for the benefit of the rest of the world widespread democracy, freedom, enlightenment time, the free word, everything that we usually associate with the good life and orderly society that falls to their knees when the totalitarian commands it? Not by our will. That is why we need those countries that believe in democracy to believe in transparent society and believe in law and order and fairness, to unite, completely on the same principle as we know it from NATO, where it is true that it is about gunpowder and bullets, while this is about trade policy, so that if China once again threatens a country like Australia or as Denmark with sanctions, because it makes a totally legitimate criticism of them, there must be a clear message from everyone else in the musketeen that we are united. It is only by uniting the European Union where we have today deposited our trade policy, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand; all countries that are involved in democracy and free trade in an alliance where we believe in the same thing that we can impose a new direction on China. And it's necessary. It's about to be the 11th hour. SARS showed it clearly, Covid-19 has shown it even more clearly, and I dare not even think about what the third wave will be if the government does not follow the attitude of the Danish People's Party. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170024	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I think there were many sensible and correct considerations, both in the speech and in the comments on the motion for a resolution. There is a bit of a long way to get it realized when it is not just a matter of uniting Europe but the whole of the West; it is, of course, a very long-term one. It is said that Denmark is too small and asked: what can you do alone? But you can also stand up for something alone, at least as an example. The rapporteur himself referred to Australia as an example. After all, this is about how China is turning and bending the rules of the WTO, but China is also violating human rights in many, many areas. On that, Mr. Søren Pind, the other day in Weekendavisen, that the reason he left politics was that when you're a Danish politician and close to power, you can't say your opinion about China. The closer you are to power, the more cotton in your mouth there must be when you talk about China. And he also mentioned an example of himself. Does the rapporteur agree with that view of Mr Beazley's report? Søren Pind? And does the rapporteur not think that Denmark could also take the lead as an example without waiting for the whole Western world?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170143	I would like to start by saying that the Faroe Islands are an excellent example of a country that is able to conduct its own trade policy • since the Faroe Islands are not part of the EU and are doing quite well. So let an introduction be a shining example of what you can get out of it by taking the lead. It is not always that the multilateral is the only way forward. What about sir? As far as Søren Pind is concerned, I have never tried to be a minister, and I am, as things stand, quite a long way from power. However, I would say that I have no ambition to give up my views or views with regard to either China or anything else in order to get closer to power; then I would rather expose those who sell their positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170224	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170226	Thank you. The question was: Can not a country lead as an example? We can, for example. take Norway. Norway allowed itself a few years ago to give a person who was critical of China the Nobel Peace Prize. Norway paid a huge price. Norway was excluded from the Chinese market for 6 years, I think it was. It was a huge price they paid for it. Does the rapporteur not think that it had an effect of standing up as an example and showing what the consequences were and thus identifying the methods of the Chinese regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170258	That is certainly what I tried to describe by highlighting the Faroe Islands as a country which also takes the lead in trade policy. And I totally agree. So, of course, as a member of the EU, Denmark is currently subject to commercial policy from Brussels, but that does not mean that other alliances cannot be entered into. I also heard Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned earlier. So I fully agree that when it comes to issues of freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and good conduct, Denmark must be a shining star in the now rather obscure sky.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170335	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170338	I think it's a little too bad that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, in his proposal, confuses various things in the way that happens, that is to say, with the covid-19 and, on the one hand, the question of the WTO and the general trade policy with China. I think that we should try to separate it a little in committee. We would very much like to be involved in, for example, the creation of the European Monetary System. the Danish profile vis-à-vis China is sharpened. We have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on this subject. The government did not want that, but a majority in the Folketing can impose a government, and if a majority wants to take part in it, Denmark can take the lead. It may be that it costs some pandas out in the zoo, and then we must take that with us. It is a pity for the children, but that may be something we must accept. So I agree that something needs to be done, but I just don't think it's wise to mix the covid-19 into that overall discussion, because there we have a special task that doesn't just include China. Because whether the next pandemic comes from China or from a wet market in another country doesn't really matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170458	I fully agree with the questioner on this. If we have chosen to make the resolution in this way, then it is because, in the concrete context, things are connected, in other words that taking China into the World Trade Organisation has given a number of privileges, among other things. in relation to trade in goods, movement and so on, which makes us all more vulnerable if there is not a certain level of bottom or a veterinary level in the country concerned. That's why I thought the clutch was logical. But that is certainly not crucial for us. What matters to us is that we have a new strategy. I might even quote Mao Zedong and say that it is not decisive what color the cat is, that it captures mice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170540	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170542	I would never dream of quoting Mao Zedong there, he has too many murders on his conscience. But let's just leave it alone. I can just say that maybe it was an opportunity that we were working towards something else. It does not seem that there is much chance that this proposal will be adopted, so I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be involved in what I proposed in my speech, namely that we try to draw up a report. It may have to be oversummer, it may have to take some time, because there are some things we need to clarify as to what opportunities there are, but we can try to use this opportunity. We can also use another opportunity, but it might well be this opportunity to find some tools that we can use across the board in relation to the problems addressed in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170633	I regard this as a very kind outstretched hand, and I would like to take it immediately. So if, in the form of a report over the summer, we can agree on how we are going to point out broader international cooperation in order to solve these problems, then we are determined to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170650	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170707	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 23 June 2020. As a start, Mr President, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners. Søren Espersen, to give the reasons for the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170739	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has raised this question debate for the reason that we were very, very surprised that Greenland on the American side is now apparently to be regarded as a kind of third world country to which the USID sends assistance. This very special view of Greenland has simply never occurred to us. We have always regarded Greenland as a fully-fledged Western democracy with a well-developed social and health care system and with an excellent education system. Maintaining all systems could be better, and we have often pointed this out when it comes to Greenland, but that does not change the fact that Greenland is a welfare society. The same can certainly not be said of the United States, on the contrary. As you know, millions and millions of less well-off people are outside the health system, and a serious chronic illness can be a disaster if a family is affected. Such a disease can ruin. The social services are no good in the United States either, just as many millions of people are destitute and can see no future for themselves. The education system is fantastic if you have money, and only families with a great deal of money can give their skilled children higher education in college or university. It is then a description of the United States which is now sending aid to Greenland through its development aid institution, USAID. I hope everyone, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, can see for themselves how strange it all sounds, so that part of the question I look forward to getting a fair explanation of, and I suppose the Minister has already raised the matter with his American colleague. It's gonna be interesting. The second part is about when and how the government became involved in this whole strange project, when in the process it was clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs what was going on, and an explanation why the Foreign Policy Name was not informed in good time about the aid that was coming. For there is no doubt that what is now happening is of very great foreign policy importance to Denmark and to the Kingdom as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618170958	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his explanatory statement and to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171008	Thank you. And thank you for the question. The American package of just over 83 million. kr. projects in Greenland have given rise to a number of questions. Last month we had thorough discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Greenland Committee. And I have also addressed both the matter and the wider context in which it forms part in Question Time here, and I thank you for the opportunity to discuss it again on the basis of the Danish People's Party's question. These are important questions, and I must say I have been somewhat surprised by the scepticism with which the package has been received by several Members of Parliament, because the package is so openly in the interests of both Greenland and the whole kingdom. Let me take today's questions from the beginning. First of all, I have been asked what I can tell you about the negotiations that took place ahead of the American package. And here I must make it clear that there has been no debate in the traditional sense. The government has long worked with Naala Suisut to ensure the maximum return to Greenland of the United States' military presence in Greenland and as much benefit as possible from the increasing American interest in Greenland. This has been done on the basis of a broad consensus in the Folketing, which among other things. is reflected in the proposal for adoption V 38 as from December last year. The work has taken place over a long period of time and at many levels. When I met with my Greenlandic colleague with the American Foreign Minister Pompeo in November this year, the question of the usefulness of Greenland was central. I am therefore pleased that the American side has screwed up a package which so finely affects Greenland's wishes. After all, it supports projects in sectors that Greenland itself wishes to develop as part of the process of diversifying the country's economy. These are mainly projects in the field of raw materials, but also energy, tourism, education and business development in Greenland are being taken into account. The package thus also supports two Memoranda of Understanding signed in June 2019 between the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Naalaksuisut. Against this background, Naala Suisut has accepted the US offer of cooperation, and the government has welcomed the project package. So this is not a specifically negotiated agreement, but a unilateral American initiative based on long-term dialogue between the United States and the Kingdom. In some areas there has also been direct dialogue between the United States and Greenland, and I would also like to make a few comments on this, because I have been somewhat surprised by several of the sharp reactions that fell on top of the American announcement. Some paint a scare picture by claiming that the United States is pushing in and beating cracks in the kingdom community. It's not a picture I recognize. It is only natural that Greenland works directly with the United States on the organisation and implementation of concrete projects in acquired areas within the framework of the Self-Government Act. The law is based on a desire to promote equality and mutual respect in the partnership between Denmark and Greenland. When it comes to the Kingdom's foreign and security policy, the competence lies with the national authorities, but we cooperate closely in the Kingdom community, including on these issues. And when foreign and security policy discussions are of particular importance to Greenland, they are implemented in close coordination with Greenland as provided for in the Self-Government Act. Our strong and trusting cooperation in the Kingdom Community strengthens us when we face challenges from the outside, and that is important because the security policy situation in the Arctic, which we also discussed yesterday, is changing. We are constantly dealing with this with the United States, which is and remains our closest ally. The second part of today's question concerns the intentions of the United States in relation to Greenland and the Arctic. And now, a few times, I have also seen calls for the government not to be naive in relation to the U.S. Act. And I don't know what those calls come from, or who it is that should be naive. I can only say that I and my colleagues in Nuuk are fully aware of the interests and intentions of the United States in relation to Greenland and the Arctic. We have a good and regular contact on these very issues. In this context, we are aware that individual initiatives such as: the establishment of the US Consulate or allocation of project funds does not exist in a vacuum. Together, they constitute a greater commitment that affects and is influenced by developments in the Arctic. Of course, when the United States increases its commitment, it is because Washington considers it to be in American interest. But it is also in the interests of the Kingdom, and I am surprised that some people see a contradiction between the two. So no matter how you turn it around here, for more than half a century, the United States has been a key partner for the Arctic and North Atlantic kingdom. We have a common interest in a region characterised by low-voltage. This is also apparent from the Ilulissat Declaration and was also confirmed in the US Memorandum of Understanding on airport investments of September 2018. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we continue to cooperate closely with the United States and other partners in the region in order to ensure a positive development for the peoples of the Arctic. Finally, I have been asked whether the government considers that Greenland is, and I quote: 'to consider as a third world country'. And I would like to say a clear no to that. The OECD Development Committee categorizes countries in different groups based on the country's gross national income per year. Capital, and according to that statement Greenland is in the group of high-income countries, among others. together with Denmark and the Faroe Islands. But this does not mean that Greenland cannot benefit from the cooperation with the United States, which is supported by an American budget line. Naalakkersuisut's acceptance of the American offer shows that the offer can benefit the sustainable development of Greenland's economy, and we support that in the government. Moreover, we also find it very positive that the European Union is providing budget support for Greenland. This support for education is administered by the European Union by the Commission's Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development, in other words DEVCO, which deals with the EU's development policy. With these comments I would like to thank you for the question, but say that here we have, I think, a good package and something that we have also discussed several times in the Folketing, and that is why the government naturally supports the package that is, just as Naala Suisut has welcomed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171722	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is the case that a single brief comment can be made to the rapporteurs who would like a brief comment. Well, at least someone does, and that's Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171735	Thank you to the Secretary of State. I fully understand that there are areas that Greenland's local government can manage itself. However, as the Foreign Minister has also said, foreign and security policy is a matter for us here in Copenhagen. What do you do if China knocks on the door next week? Will we then just say from the Danish Government: well, it is a repatriated area; the Greenlandic local government can decide for itself everything they want, and there are probably no problems in that? What if Russia does it the next week? Then it's not a problem either? This is because suddenly this could set a very dangerous precedent for something which, in my view at least, is a security and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171831	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171834	I would like to point out that what cooperation is about, the package of projects, are areas such as raw materials, education, tourism, business development, all areas that are taken over under the Act of Self-Government. And I would also like to say that I am not concerned at all, nor should it be the case that the Danish Government goes in and interferes in taken-over areas where the Greenland Government wants to cooperate with others. I think this is quite natural, i.e. that Greenland, as a small country and an economy that wants to open up to the outside world, finds partners in the world. In fact, I see that this is entirely in line with the desire of a broad majority in the Danish Parliament to have worked too long, namely that the US's extensive military involvement in Greenland also translates into a commitment for the benefit of the Greenlandic people and the Greenlandic community, and that is what I see this package as.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171935	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618171939	Thank you. If you now read the Greenlandic post from today, it is actually printed yesterday, but it has at least come to Denmark today. It says: The United States can seem both deeply fascinating and terrifying. And then there are some examples of how influential the United States has been throughout history, which is why the newspaper urges you to think very carefully instead of being overly excited or very afraid. Do they feel threatened or are they comfortable with the situation and act accordingly? Because I think that Denmark sometimes makes it that we are actually twisting repatriated policy areas into foreign and security policy. But can actually talk about dual use policy, in other words where there are both: foreign and security policy, trade policy or development policy, social policy, etc. And I also think that we tend to say as Danes: we should decide that, because it can be a part of foreign policy. Is the Minister not afraid that we too often cross Greenland and the Faroe Islands because we play the foreign and security policy card too quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172057	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172059	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. I don't know if that was a reference to sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen's brief comment to me. I would just like to say that it is the Danish Government and myself personally very much concerned to strengthen our cooperation in the Commonwealth on foreign and security policy. We are in a world that is rapidly changing, and it is not a pussy. It is a reality: the rivalry of power, the challenge of rules and the multilateral order. So I only have one wish, and that is to strengthen our foreign and security policy cooperation, also between Greenland and the United States and Denmark and the kingdom. I think that's in everyone's interest in the world we're looking into. And then, as we discussed yesterday, for the Arctic region, we have a very clear objective of contributing to détente, which is also important for people living in the Arctic region.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172158	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks, in which those who wish to speak may have two brief comments. The rapporteur for the authors of the question is therefore required to do so, Mr President. Søren Espersen, please come to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172215	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. Perhaps I can say a little polemically that if it isn't aid, why is it the USID who is taking care of this? They usually use that channel to: provide assistance to third world countries. Well, leave it alone. As mentioned in the explanatory statement, it has been a surprise to me that the United States, which is not able to help their millions of sick and weak fellow countrymen, is now supplying the USAID to the welfare community of Greenland but them about it. So it goes on to say that while we are down here in Denmark sugar in relation to the USAID and refuse to be grateful, Greenland's self-government is very pleased with what happened and very happy with the check that was sent. It should be pointed out here that Denmark with its block grant with its military presence, with the police and the judiciary totals 5 billion each year. kr., which is 62 times the one-time amount of 80 million. kr., which the United States has sent in foreign aid to Greenland 62 times as much! And that's every year. It is every eternal year in relation to the one-off amount that has come and that everyone was about to fall on his tail. And it is worth noting an amount that we in Denmark are happy to pay, because the Greenlanders here are widely regarded as compatriots. I just don't get it. But you're allowed to guess. For one thing, the United States has an interest in managing Greenland, which I fully understand. Something else is the role that Greenland's autonomy and the vast majority of politicians in the Landsting have played and are playing in the historical drama of the kingdom of Denmark that we are currently experiencing. I claim that it is precisely the Greenlandic politicians who, with their continuing talk of independence, have, of course, set the United States in motion. It began seriously in 2009 with the Law on Greenland's self-government, as politicians back home thought I know, for I myself was on the Self-Government Commission • was the good and secure foundation for the kingdom decades to come, while the Greenlanders apparently saw it as a springboard for lightning-fast independence. As I said, I am not going to blame the United States on this matter. It is understandable that the superpower has ordered matters with due care on the unhappy day when Greenland declares independence. On the other hand, my criticism is very much directed at the Greenlandic politicians, who in these years do not play with open cards and some Danish politicians who have allowed relations with Greenland to drift around for weather and wind and have never made demands and never made criticisms. And that almost never, regardless of the context, speaks against Greenlandic politicians, or that you would never ask: And what can Greenland do for the kingdom community? If it was not so tragic, it is actually quite interesting that it is now especially the Danish left who, with their barn standing up in a large way, has helped to chase Greenland into the embrace of the capitalist United States. Greenlandic politicians, for their part, spend disproportionate time preparing for independence and disproportionate time solving the country's challenges. And while the relationship between Greenland and Denmark, which is well away quite unfairly accused of all possible ills, is increasingly of interest to even people at home who are sworn supporters of the Kingdom community. I do not think it is fair that we in the Folketing and in the government are working in every way to meet any Greenlandic demand in the near future, and that we are constantly seeking to strengthen the kingdom community, while leading Greenlandic country-thinking politicians seem indifferent to the kingdom community. It will therefore, I think, dress the official Greenland now to choose side so that we can all move on. Is Greenland's future with Denmark, or is it with the United States? Greenlandic politicians make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172648	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172652	It is sometimes difficult to understand what Mr. Søren Espersen really means. A few minutes ago, he said: what is it about providing development aid to a country that has a welfare society that works, with schools and hospitals and everything? It wasn't two years ago, sir. Søren Espersen stood on this platform and thundered against Greenland, which was not able to run their own society at all and therefore had to be put under administration. That was not just something I heard wrong, because he repeated it twice in the debate we had at the time. I wonder what the Danish People's Party really means. Is it a society that must be put under administration, or is it a good welfare society that is under way to get the economy in place so that they can become an independent country with a good welfare society? I don't understand, and that's why it's also hard to figure out what's really the idea behind these things, just because the Americans give Greenland some hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172757	I regard Greenland as a welfare society and a Western democracy. In relation to putting under administration, it was not the Greenlandic self-government that I was interested in putting under administration. It was the social service which had failed in a great deal, and a great deal was put into cooperation between the Greenlandic Government and the Danish Government, so things now seem to be moving in a very different direction than they were a few years ago. I think so too, sir. Christian Juhl remembers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172822	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172824	Now I am in doubt whether we have made it all the way as far as vulnerable Greenlandic children are concerned. There is certainly a long way to go, and we must continue to do so. However, I think it is quite strange that one moment the rapporteur thinks that the country should be placed under administration, and the other moment that it is a super welfare society that should certainly not accept charity from the United States. I will not interfere if the Greenlanders accept a few million from the United States. I know why the United States is doing this, and I'm sure we're agreed on that, but I don't want to take this kind of action just for such a detail as that. After all, it is only some money that has been spent in quite a short space of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172909	No, sir. Christian Juhl never interferes with Greenlandic politics. Sir. Christian Juhl has never ever expressed any criticism of the Greenland Government and Landsting with which we are in the Kingdom, for Mr. Christian Juhl is colonial. And with great fear of touch he stays far away from it over and over again today also in the question that was asked just before and says: We should not interfere at all, it takes care of the Greenlanders themselves. That is why I am calling for left-wing politicians who can also make demands, as we do in all other contexts of this democratic kingdom in which we are. We have to get involved in everything compared to each other. That's why we have a kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618172954	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173009	Thank you for raising the debate and also thank you for the introduction. I think it is important to remember that there has been a process ahead of this package. Trump expressed a desire to buy Greenland, and it became very clear that Greenland is Greenlandic, and that we are thus united about Greenland being Greenlandic, and that Greenland would rather be part of the kingdom community than being American. That is why I do not necessarily recognize the picture that Mr. Søren Espersen is trying to run for us as we stand weaker. Perhaps I also think in many ways that Greenland has expressed more clearly where we are now. This does not mean that we will necessarily be in a community of kingdoms forever, but this is where we are now, and this is where we want to stand, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173053	I was very pleased with the reaction that came from Greenland's management at the time. Kim Kielsen was very clear in his rejection of this, and in that way it was kind of good. It's funny, by the way, when it comes to Trump at that time, because I think if we're playing with the idea that he never said this, these were 82 million. kr. was received in a completely different way, including by myself. But this was the result of the President's joking in the spinach in this way because he thought that everything could be sold, including an entire country with people in it. So I was quite satisfied with that and also again thanks to all Greenlandic politicians for reporting clear flags. I do not know how it has been received in the United States, but thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173140	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173155	Thank you very much. I therefore share the rapporteur's comments. I do not think that Greenland can be chased into the arms of anyone, including the United States, but it is Greenland itself that decides what you want to do. The interesting thing is also the internal debate here in Denmark and here in the Danish Parliament in relation to how Danish politicians react to this. Because it was a wakeup call, you have to admit that. And we need to do something more, not just drifting and not just talking about block subsidies, but, in this way, solving the tasks for which we have taken responsibility, namely the 32 areas that are covered by the self-government law. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173237	Can I have the question again? 'Cause I don't really think I got it, just the last part of it? Is that okay with the President?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173245	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173249	Thank you very much. I should like to ask more clearly: does the rapporteur agree that we have a job to do in resolving the 32 areas covered by the self-government law better than what we are doing today and that it was a wakeup call when there was the American interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173308	I fully agree with that, and I think it would be a very good goal to set ourselves, including for the future of the whole Kingdom community, that we should take back as much as we possibly can. This applies to both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. There's just an old slogan saying that one country always has an army, either one's own army or another's. I remember that my old friend Lars-Emil Johansen, with whom I sat on the Self-Government Commission, said at a discussion event in 2009 that if the Danish fleet went home, he was sure that the Americans would want to come and do it all for free. And I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173348	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173355	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It was very direct and without any fear of touch. I appreciate that. I see it as an expression of respect for Greenland that you are as direct as you are. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that this is a very, very small amount, and much of it is even given to American advisers. So it's a minimal amount. However, it has not been made a major political issue, among other things. by the rapporteur himself, by blowing so much political importance in it? Is that not why it has become so huge in the debate? And the rapporteur is not afraid of, among other things. The rapporteur himself speaks so much about this as something wrong that, in the same way as he pours water on the politicians' mill, who want to get out of the Kingdom community, because they say: 'Look, the Danes do not even allow us to have a small cooperation of 83 million on matters taken over. with the United States, that is unacceptable? Can it not help to damage the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173504	Well, I wouldn't deny that every expression has some kind of reaction, that is, that something comes out of every expression, whether you act in one way or another. So I think that's right, and that's a very small amount. As I said, it is 62 times less than the amount that Denmark grants in block grants every year. So it is an unbelievably small amount that can't be used for anything, and which is not at all in harmony with the fact that the Americans have made a consulate in Nuuk with 10-11 men employed and very large broken up, and which, by the way, I understand has been housed at the Arctic Command. But that is an unbelievable small amount, and that is why I wondered at the great joy there was. Well, it's like hoping to get a present on Christmas Eve, and then there's some boring little rock you can pull around with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173550	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173552	Yes, precisely because it is so small a sum, I am also surprised that the Danish People's Party attaches so much political importance to it, because it is of course small change. Now it is the case that NATO needs Greenland and that NATO needs the support of the Greenlandic people and the Greenlandic political system. So far, it has been the case that American aircraft have been seen in Greenland, American bases and American soldiers have been seen and not much more than that. Can it not be that in the great image of NATO it is an advantage to see in Greenland anything more of the Western alliance than only military hardware?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173633	Yeah, yeah, I mean, it's essential on the basis of this. Because I understand that the American interest will be stronger and stronger, and it is certain that you will also invest in perhaps US naval vessels. We have not yet seen this on the way up, but I shall be sorry to say that we must then arm up in this way and ensure that it is available as it should be. We have been neglecting this for too many years. I don't know what others said, but I was wondering that there was such a fuss over so little. But it created the Americans themselves by being present with up to several representatives, including the ambassador.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173719	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618173728	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again giving us the opportunity to talk about Greenland and the Arctic. We appreciate that. The Arctic is filling the major political agenda, and security policy and the security policy agenda are much more important. I have been rapporteur in the field of foreign policy for a year now, in fact right in these weeks, and it is the case that I have been a defence rapporteur in the past and also had debates on the Arctic. But it is as if the interest in the Arctic and Greenland has exploded wildly over the past year, and we in the Kingdom Community and as Danes can be happy about that. At the same time, however, there is also a great power rivalry which must be taken into account. In relation to our cooperation with the Americans, Denmark has been cooperating with the Americans for peace and security and has actually provided peace and security in Greenland since the 1940s. Is it new that the Americans are in Greenland? No, actually, it's not. You have been there physically since 1951, and so it is also the case that there is a reopening of the American consulate in Nuuk. The new thing is not that the Greenlanders cooperate with the Americans, but the new thing is that it should benefit the Greenlanders, that it should benefit the Greenlandic economy more and that it should benefit the Greenlandic people more. In the Social Democratic Party we are very aware, as the Minister said, that cooperation in the Kingdom community is based on trust and mutual respect. When it is the case that this package has been accepted, what the Minister also mentioned is specifically in some areas: raw materials, education, research and tourism. It affects some areas that have been repatriated, and that is why it is of course up to the Americans, together with the Greenlanders, to discuss how this package and the funds are to be used. However, the funds must be translated into concrete results, and these are civilian projects. In the Social Democratic Party, we are really pleased that closer cooperation has been established. You can always work together on repatriated areas. We also think that it is up to the Greenlanders and the Americans to find out how it benefits the people of Greenland and how to achieve better economic growth compared to this. I really don't think I'm gonna say anything more. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption, and it is the case that this text represents the whole of the Folketing, it represents all the parties, it represents the two Greenlandic parties and the two Faroese parties and the four non-attached Members outside the groups. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that in April 2020, the Naalakkersuisut has accepted the US offer for a package of 12,1 million. USD for projects in Greenland. Parliament notes that the package is composed of the United States after discussions between Naalaksuisut, the government and the United States. The Folketing supports that the government, together with Naalakersuisut, is working to ensure that the growing American interest in Greenland benefits Greenland and the Greenlandic people. The Folketing supports Naalakkersuisut's work in developing a sustainable economy through international cooperation within the framework of the Self-Government Act. The Danish Parliament notes that Greenland can work with the United States on the organisation and implementation of projects in taken over areas, while the Danish government implements the Kingdom's foreign, security and defence policy, with the inclusion of the Kingdom's parts as required by inter alia. the law of self-government. The Folketing considers that the Foreign Policy Name should be kept regularly informed of foreign, defence and security policy aspects. international agreements. The Folketing considers that cooperation in the Kingdom community should be based on trust and mutual respect. • V 94). Thank you very much to all parties for participating in this proposal for adoption, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174158	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174201	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Just to clarify what I got in response from the Foreign Minister to my question in the first round, I would like to hear what the Social Democrats as a party think if China or Russia knocks on the door tomorrow and makes some sort of aid package for the Greenlandic local government. Is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that it is quite okay, and that is not something you want to interfere with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174237	Well, it's the case that these are civil projects, and about civil projects, the self-government law says that in repatriated areas, the Greenlanders can meet with other partners. So it must be completely within the framework of the law and the autonomy law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174252	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174254	So the answer is yes. I have to admit that I will say that all my alarm bells are beginning to ring, because then it is precisely that everything can happen, when you also geopolitically open up a whole new battlefield: a battlefield in which some countries will go in and mark themselves in a completely different way than we have seen so far. I mean, I and the Left are extremely nervous that if Chinese investment and aid packages and the like start to come in that way, then it is that we are beginning to see a complete distortion geopolitically. But thanks for a clear answer. I'm just deeply, deeply disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174332	Well again, what is contained in the self-government law is in the self-government law, and that is why we must, of course, respect it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174340	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174344	I think it's interesting about this amount, and that's the amount we're talking about: how much can you actually get for 82 million? kr.? The United States mentions mining, tourism, infrastructure, industry. I mean, 82 million. kr. is about it, it costs to make a helicopter landing place; just for such a small one it is about the amount. And there is not much that can be done about it. Does the Social Democrat rapporteur not agree with me that it is a very pauver gift to get under such a great deal of fuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174416	Now the rapporteur, Mr Seligman, has the floor. Søren... Søndergaard (fourth Vice-President Søren Now he says it is a gift. I say it is an economic package, and it is therefore up to the Americans, together with the Greenlanders, to find out what this package is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174447	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174449	Well, there's not gonna be much in that package there. In other words, if that is the way it is divided on the ten different issues mentioned by the Americans, they want to support and develop, then there will be 8 to 9 million. kr. Each one, and we know that in here isn't much money. I can mourn the day when the block subsidy was fixed and blocked. I think it was an unfortunate decision that was taken at the time, when there were actually some good negotiations with the Minister of Finance every year to find out some things that might be worked on, but it was, as I said earlier, a wish from the Greenland delegation that it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174530	If that's how you put 83 million. kr. After all, it is money that can be spent on civil projects, and I hope that will benefit the Greenlanders a great deal, both economically and also in terms of how the people see the things the money is spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174550	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Annette Lind I'm sorry I said the last name wrong before). The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618174606	Thank you. Well, there's actually been a sir. Søren Søndergaard in the Assembly Hall earlier today. But first of all I would like to thank you very much for having such a question debate. There is no doubt that, on the one hand, we on the Left are really happy that there will be good private services if you can put it that way: investment in Greenland, by getting this aid package from one of our closest allies at all, but on the other hand we cannot help seeing it in a larger geopolitical picture. And this, of course, must be seen in the picture that has gradually emerged in recent years, when we have experienced, not least recently, a Trump administration that has put the eye to eye in order to want to engage more and more in the Arctic, not least in Greenland. Because I fully agree that President Trump's announcement that he would buy Greenland was a wakeup call. And it has to be seen in the fact that you now open a consulate, which is called a reopening, but it is now a number of years ago. Well, you can of course call everything a reopening, but it was in the 1950s that you had a consulate there. So let's just call it a reopening of a consulate in a city that is about the same size as Holbæk. There is now a consulate with eight, as I understand it, both local staff and diplomats, and this is a very violent diplomatic upgrade. And that is where we must also look into the fact that we see one delegation after another travelling from the United States to Greenland and going directly into active dialogue with the Greenlandic politicians. Are we gonna mind? No, not in principle. Well, it is fine that the Americans, as our closest ally, have a very fine and sensible dialogue with the Greenlandic politicians. I fully agree with that. Where the film just breaks for me is, of course, by going in and discussing something that is foreign and security policy. Because there is no discussion there should at least be no question of foreign and security policy remaining in one place, namely here, for the whole kingdom. That is why the fears that I have now reflected in the questions I have put first to the government and then to the Social Democratic Party are unfortunately no difference in the answers: what happens if China stands and knocks on the door tomorrow? That is why we can stand by and say that we believe it is a reclaimed area and that it is therefore the decision of the Greenlanders alone. I disagree, because I believe that this will be a security and foreign policy issue. That is why it is obviously something that we need to go in and discuss even more in depth in the foreign policy name and elsewhere, because I have no doubt that we are also listening to Beijing right now to hear what is being sent by signals. And the signal from the Danish government is evidently that it is clear that you can just enter which is actually totally contrary to what the previous government did in action. That is why I do not really understand the clear answer we have received from the government and the Social Democrats. And I'm really worried about that. I am also concerned because, in relation to the geopolitical power struggle there is, we see that such a player as Russia is also interested. They do not have as many economic muscles as China does, but of course they are also interested in that way. And I do not quite understand it either, given that, after a year, the government has finally listened to what we have said, namely that we need to have a protection against critical infrastructure covering the whole kingdom; for that must also be seen in the light of this. It must also be seen in the light of the fact that we have some countries not mentioned, no one forgotten who wants to come in and mark themselves in a completely different way within the whole kingdom. That is why I had thought that when the government announced a short time ago that something was on the way, that it had finally come out of the stairs that had been coming up for a year, a positive list would be drawn up to include those with whom we had active foreign and security policy cooperation. That would be fine in line with, in fact, one hundred percent in line with both what we on the Left had started when we were in government and what we had been arguing for throughout the opposition period. And that is why I must admit that I do not fully understand the difference in saying that we are going to go some way in some areas and understand the threat, but when it comes to something else, we are blind to that threat. I must admit that this is also totally contrary to what a large number of experts have been out to warn us about. That is why I think it should be taken more seriously. And I can promise you that we on the Left will follow this discussion to the end, and we will do so, among other things. Do in the Foreign Policy Name.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175110	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's for mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175113	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would really like the rapporteur to comment on this: how much is paid for 82 million? kr.? In other words, as I said, these are mining, tourism, infrastructure, industry, English education, and I could continue to do no, I cannot, because I do not remember the last things. But there were a lot of things, and it's not much. Isn't it really and maybe it's a confirmation from someone who also knows about the economy just enough for wages, for the consulate and then for the operation of the building for a year? And then I don't know what else to do. But isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175146	Yes, I will confirm that. I expect that to be clear. It is a very, very small amount, and that is why, of course, I do not fully understand it, we must say politically positive attention that has been paid to it by certain politicians, especially Greenland. Given how much money Danish taxpayers are happy to pay to our friends in the community, I do not quite understand the difference there is. That is why I think it is important that we try to stick to how much we are together here in the Kingdom community instead of what divides us. So that's a confirmation from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175219	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175221	But that's the way it's being launched. I mean, I used to be a spin doctor myself, and you can come up with all sorts of funny things that sound like a lot, and then it's not really a huge advertising campaign that's going on, and then we might have had one ad in it. I remember, and I was really good at doing it, I think. It's the partyivitas that were around this. I almost wanted to go up to that party, a big party. Maybe all the money has gone to it; I don't know. But at least I have received more emails from people in Greenland that I know who say: Finally, some people are finally doing something for us; now we get some money. And I spoke to the person and said, I'm not sure. But that's the way it's being launched. It is a package with no content, which is suddenly turned into something huge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175309	Well, it's just a continuation of what Mr. Søren Espersen says what worries me. Now Mr. Christian Juhl Greenland's post, and if you follow the Greenlandic media just a little bit, and I don't want to make myself an expert on it, then you also experience Greenlandic politicians embrace it here in a completely different way than I can understand. Because it is as if only the Americans are suddenly friends of Greenland, and apparently not Denmark with that money, the more than 3 billion. kr. As I recall, it's 3.5 billion. kr., we send every year in block grants with pleasure, because it is part of the Kingdom community. So I'm one hundred percent in agreement with sir. Søren Espersen in this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175343	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175347	Thanks to the Left. I am a little incomprehensible about some of the things that are being mentioned here, among others. that there is talk of foreign and security policy lying here. The law of self-government means that the three kingdoms have an equal relationship, and there has been strong questioning as to whether the previous government has really followed it up. What is now, in fact, what we see as an equal relationship, where there is mutual respect and trust between us, and where we can therefore build these relations as well. I would like to ask the rapporteur here: if we say that foreign and security policy is here and that this is something we are deciding on in this Chamber and that this is not something we are doing together, what do we think is an equal community?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175439	I therefore believe that the Constitution is the most important instrument we have at all. Earlier today we had a discussion in the Political Affairs Committee about the Constitution and the interpretation of the Constitution, and I would therefore just like to point out that it is very, very clear that the entire foreign and security policy of the Kingdom is the responsibility of the Danish Government. And before we begin to change it, it's my duty and it's everyone in this room's duty, of course, to comply with what it says. This does not mean that I do not want good and constructive cooperation. I myself took part in the debate on a new Arctic strategy yesterday in the parliamentary forum which was, and that is something I really want a lot more of. I would also like us to meet in different forums, i.e. in Foreign Policy Name and then with our counterparts from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I also warmly support this as Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Group, and I also know that the President of the Board of Governors has previously been out talking about this as something that may be an idea. So I strongly support cooperation, but I still think that it is impossible to get around it, in other words in relation to the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175545	If the rapporteur does not want to answer the specific question of what is seen as an equal relationship, then I would like to ask about the security policy aspect which is also addressed here. If we are concerned that there is a security policy aspect in cooperation with other countries on the areas we have taken over under the Self-Government Act, why is it that Denmark has close cooperation in research, education and everything else with both the United States and other countries, which has also been mentioned in the House today? Why is it that Denmark can tackle these matters, but that you cannot do it with Greenland in mutual respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175624	First of all, I would like to say that I actually feel that I answered the question. But if I didn't do it, it's probably because I've been up at 9:00. 5.30, so please ask me afterwards, because I was actually trying to answer it very clearly. In relation to the second, I would like to say that I have the clear view that Greenland must, of course, have full ownership of the repatriated areas, but there are just some areas that we must recognise by 2020 are foreign and security policy, among others. the critical infrastructure issue. And that is, of course, where we need to find a sensible balance in dialogue between the Danish Government and the Greenland Government and, for that matter, also the Faroese Government. So we agree on that too. So I think we are actually relatively in agreement on the objective. But then it's just that we have to get there somehow, in Trinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175708	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175710	If any Greenlander or Faroese think that Danish politicians can be a bit double moral sometimes, does the rapporteur not think that this may well be a little right? When a Faroese is not allowed to sell a fish to Russia because Denmark has closed the ports to the Faroese fishermen, when Denmark, as we hear here, has plenty of cooperation with both China and the United States and for that matter Russia is being made billions in Russia by Danish companies, even though we have blockades and things and cases. Why should Greenland not be able to take a stand on such matters? And here I would like to ask, in concrete terms: business development and tourism development and some hands to develop it, is it security and foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175803	First of all, it is important to maintain that the whole kingdom is a member of NATO, the whole kingdom has the various threats from different countries, including China and Russia, which we in Denmark are also facing, and that is why we must also be able to face the threats and specific challenges it presents throughout the kingdom. This is among other things. Therefore, I have been talking about this protection for critical infrastructure, and that is also why we must of course act on the whole of the kingdom. Because when there is a situation with Russia that has acted extremely aggressively towards Europe, it is therefore in line with the whole of Denmark's foreign policy that it naturally has consequences, and that creates some challenges, because only Denmark is a member of the European Union. I recognise that clearly, and therefore I am very sorry for the situation that has affected the Faroe Islands in relation to what the European Union was very square about, and I also understand that the Faroese had to look at what they can find from other markets. I understand the situation, but that does not change the fact that, in relation to foreign and security policy, I think it should be Danish. I can't answer any more, but I'd like to answer the rest of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175909	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175910	There is a small chance of that now, because I would like to repeat the last part of the question. In relation to the content of the package we are unfortunately not allowed to publish because it was from a closed meeting, but it is mentioned by others, among others. Søren Espersen, that it among other things. We will all agree that it would be very good for Greenland to get the economy going so that you could be more financially self-sustaining. Where, then, is the critical infrastructure in discussing tourism and business development? That's what I'm asking. Because if we believe that this money is being spent on it and not just at a party, then I cannot understand why it should be called critical infrastructure. Then everything can almost be called critical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618175953-2	But apparently I have also made myself very incomprehensible. Because I am not saying that the whole package that was from USAID to Greenland should be critical infrastructure in no way. That is why, of course, we need to have an assessment of what is critical infrastructure or not. I don't see that tourism cooperation is supposed to be critical infrastructure. I don't think you've seen me say that either. If you have, it's certainly a worst-case scenario, because of course I didn't mean it or say it, I mean it. So it's about finding the balance, like everything else in life, and I think we can do that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180029	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180040	Thank you. I'm a little confused, because what does Mr. Kim have? Michael Aastrup Jensen said, and what has he not said about what is critical infrastructure? It is the case that there is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that foreign and security policy matters are within the Commonwealth. It is also the case that we think that this money that has been given to Greenland is for civilian projects. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that in terms of education, in relation to tourism, in relation to the raw materials industry is critical infrastructure that it is a matter of foreign and security policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180125-2	So, I simply do not understand that there should be some ambiguity about what is critical infrastructure and what is not, given that I have said it this way about. Fifty times in the last few years. But I would like to repeat myself for the 51st time: it is the telecommunications network, it is ports, it is airports, and it is, among other things, airports. also the supply area. I think you could look up any textbook on critical infrastructure and then see the answer. I have not said otherwise here today either. That we saw in addition to that and now I stress it again so that no one misunderstands it, in addition
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180227	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180228	Okay, then we got a little smarter and maybe a little more agreeable, I guess. Michael Aastrup Jensen I think we got much smarter). It is the case that I said in my rapporteur's speech that, according to the law of self-government, other partners can be met in repatriated areas. And there you can also say, "Well, can you do that now?" Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that the Greenlanders can meet with other partners on these civil projects, as stated by the Self-Government Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180256	This is actually quite an interesting question, because then it is that it can become a debate about security and foreign policy quickly here if we talk about countries that are not among our closest allies. And there we can quickly end up in a discussion of confidentiality, so that is why it is also a question of what I can stand and say from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and what I have to say in the foreign policy mention. For there are some countries, let us not mention them where there are extremely close links between so-called commercial companies and local government, and where, according to all estimates, at least commercially, it will be so that it is the government that you talk to, even if it is a so-called commercial company. So I cannot give a clear 'yes' or 'no' answer to that question. I cannot actually do that, but that is one of the things I expect us to address in the debate in the Foreign Policy Name that some have been demanding for a long time and which the government has finally promised to do in August.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180348	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180352	Thank you. Now Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that he is incomprehensible to the very positive publicity that this has meant that people have been so unheard of happy to get this amount. He does not understand that they are, for it is so quite a small amount; he does not understand the fuss at all. At the same time, the same rapporteur says that he is very, very concerned about this gift, because it is almost a threat to the Kingdom community. We are talking about the same amount. He does not understand that some are very happy, but he himself is very angry about the same amount. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180430	I am nervous because of the diplomatic importance attached to it by certain Greenlandic politicians and the way it is put up in the press. That's why I'm nervous. I am not really so nervous about the content of the package itself. I am nervous about it, both in the light of the many delegations of the Trump administration, in relation to their opening of a consulate and in relation to the diplomatic importance that is attributed to it by Greenlandic politicians. That's why I'm nervous. And my main nervousness, as I have said sometimes now, is the precedent it will set for those who are not our friends, namely countries which are further eastwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180507	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180509	Thank you. The question now is what action this great concern would lead to if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen was Prime Minister or Foreign Minister. Would he have said no to this deal, or would he have said yes? Would he have said no to Greenland being able to work with the United States in taken-over areas, or would he have said yes? Because if he had said no to it, he would have thrown the Kingdom community into a quite, quite serious crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180539	That is why I can also reassure and say that neither the Left nor the Left Secretary of State has ever said that such an agreement with the Americans should be rejected. What I have just said all along is how important this balancing process is purely diplomatic and that it is therefore important that the Danish Government sits at the table throughout the negotiation process and there is very much discussion about having or not having, but we can take it somewhere else, in the foreign policy mention and then I am nervous about what it sets as a precedent in relation to more eastern countries. That's where my fear lies. In fact, in my speech, I am actually in favour of the actual agreement. I'm just nervous about everything that happens next door and what it sets as a precedent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180619	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180622	Thank you to the rapporteur and also to the President. This is, of course, a rather interesting debate, and some of what we are calling for from IA is a definition of what security policy really is, because if we had it, I think we might also be in a different situation. Finding the balance between having respect for repatriated areas, i.e. that Greenland should of course take care of it itself, and so that there may be some security considerations, seems to me to be quite an important and central discussion in the Folketing. As far as China is concerned, the Americans say that presence is equivalent to influence. That is why, in fact, I have asked the question myself in relation to the press: what if China came up with twice as much money? What would Greenland actually say? And it is actually more interesting to hear what Naala Suisut will say than to hear what the government will say. And there has been that debate about whether a screening mechanism is needed at all if it is clear, and that is also what I am hearing from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180726	I very much agree with that, and therefore I am a little worried about that, as I have said many times in relation to what the government and the Social Democrat rapporteur have said today, but we have to discuss this further in the foreign policy area, where the questioner is at least an alternate, so we have plenty of opportunity to do so. After all, we have been asking for a major debate on Arctic relations in general for some time now, and I expect that to happen very, very soon. So there will be plenty of opportunity to go a little deeper with some of the things, also in a confidential room, because I actually think I can say a hundred percent that I share the analysis I have just heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180801	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180802	Thank you very much. In relation to China and critical infrastructure, I also think: Now we do not necessarily have a Chinese scare in Greenland, but we have at least become sceptical about the critical infrastructure. And I really think that some definitions are missing, so that we are a little clearer when it is actually, we are a little more critical of some external investment and when we are actually quite open. And the important thing in that is that you do not scare some investment away from Greenland, but rather that you make it easier to invest in Greenland and that you find the balance between it and then taking some security policy considerations as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180841	But I agree very much with that, because I am not saying that we should put a blockade on China. I mean, Chinese investments throughout the kingdom... all parts of it... are welcome. What we just need to make sure we have is a protection against critical infrastructure. And then it is true that we must have a definition of what critical infrastructure is and we must have the legislative work done. That is also why, as the foreign rapporteur in the opposition, I have been begging the government to do so for a year. And now, fortunately, there are new notes about being on your way, and then I don't know how long this way is. I hope it is not that long, and I hope it will come soon, because I fully agree that it is time for us to have that legal basis for the whole kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180918	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618180932	Thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Søren Espersen to take the Kingdom community to the hall once again. You can disagree with Mr. Søren Espersen in many and many things, but one cannot take away from him that he is one of the politicians who cares most about the kingdom community and really has it under the skin and in the heart. At least we have that in common, and I am glad that we will also have the opportunity to talk more about it today. The triangular drama between the United States and Denmark and Greenland has lasted for many decades. It certainly goes back to the time when, during the war, a Danish ambassador was sitting in Washington, named Henrik Kaufmann, who negotiated on behalf of a government that did not recognise him, and he began to discuss with the Americans what were actually American, Danish and Greenlandic interests in Greenland. Since then, it can be said that there has been a very delicate form of balance in relations between the three countries. After all, it is no secret that the United States regards Greenland as an absolutely vital area of interest and would like to take over Greenland. It is not only Trump who has tried to buy Greenland. Several American presidents have done so, but it has been accepted that it wanted neither Denmark nor Greenland, and it has been accepted in such a way that as long as Greenland and Denmark allowed the United States to have a basic security and defence policy dimension, and as long as you felt confident that you were under what you could call a security policy regime of the United States, you could live with the autonomy and autonomy that both Greenland and Denmark had. Denmark has never had any desire to abandon Greenland, partly of basic territorial interests, partly because one has an interest in maintaining low tension in the area, ensuring sustainable development for Greenland and Denmark in the area, and partly because one has gradually become more emotionally involved in Greenland with close state relations, popular relations, etc. However, one has had the interest to keep the Americans so close that during the Cold War and also today they will spread their nuclear umbrella over Greenlandic and Danish territory. Greenland has had and shared the security policy interest to be protected, but has also had a perfectly legitimate desire over the years to achieve both greater prosperity and greater autonomy. Therefore, I must say that when I was not deeply alarmed by the last American package, it was not just because it was a small size, but mainly because of the reports that came from Greenlandic politicians. 'Cause I don't actually agree entirely with Mr. Knox. This is Søren Espersen. In relation to both the Greenlandic Government and what I would regard as leading Greenlandic politicians, I would not say that was surprising, because I was happy about it, but I thought it was a great deal that people, who are known to have been fighting for years and decades for independence in Greenland, came out very unpolished, I thought, and said that there was no desire for the United States to take over Greenland in any way, quite the contrary. Nor did it want the United States to take over Denmark's role, if I may say so, without taking over Greenland, and no idea was made of it. You just wanted to act as you could with all sorts of others. In other words, whatever intention has been behind the efforts of the United States and here we should not be naive at all. Søren Espersen and a lot of others in the area, I really think that the Greenlandic answer was right and good. For what it stands and falls in is, of course, whether Greenland and Denmark can agree that being dependent on each other is better than being dependent on some others. That's what it stands and falls in. I was comforted that leading Greenlandic politicians were aware that even if you are in favour of more Greenlandic independence, and that is what the vast majority of Greenlanders are doing today, then the way is not to replace Denmark with anything else and especially no other major country. I think this is true, just as I think it is true that, in this situation, the Danes who want to maintain a close relationship with Greenland should not try to talk down the Greenlandic desires and feelings for greater autonomy and codecision on their own future, but support them. I perceive the situation so paradoxical that if you are Greenlander and want more autonomy, then the fastest and best and most independent way to it is a stronger cooperation with Denmark. If you want to preserve fellowship with Greenland as a Dane, it is to support the Greenlandic efforts for greater autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181504	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. It's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181508	Thank you very much for your speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur also seems to have understood the statements coming from Greenland. I would like to ask about this, especially because the rapporteur himself has been a foreign minister and has tried to work together between Greenland and Denmark. What I see happening now is that there is a close cooperation between Denmark and Greenland on this particular package. So I don't quite see the criticism of this. Secondly, I find it difficult to understand how it can be that Denmark has so many partners, among others. The United States, on various major foreign policy matters, but also on such simple things as education and research and similar matters. So that Denmark, which is still a small country on the world map, dares to have these conversations without first consulting Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181608	I think one should be aware that the Kingdom Community and the Community between Greenland and Denmark arouse many great feelings in Denmark, and that the Danes want to reassure the Greenlanders that we want a close relationship. I would say that I think it would be perfectly natural also to seek better partnerships between Greenland and Denmark. I see nothing to prevent Greenland from taking home an area and seeking partnerships with all sorts of countries, but also Denmark, just as we do, as the rapporteur says, with Germany and France and all sorts of other countries. After all, there are areas and also reclaimed areas in Greenland where you could easily have a stronger partnership on the basis that it is Greenland that is like leading it because you have taken the area home. We now have increased cooperation on children and on social matters, which is urgently needed and which, in my view, could be even better. This also applies to investments in raw materials. There I think we could do more to attract European investment. This is something Denmark has an interest in, because we have an interest in Greenland becoming more self-employed. So I could actually wish for more Danish-Greenland partnerships.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181722	I am very pleased about this, and it sounds like we are very much in agreement on the common policy, which we must also implement through the Community. I just had a little difficulty understanding the criticism and concern about the cooperation that is now with the United States. Because it is precisely in the areas of self-government that we still have it, it is still according to the constitution, and it is in areas that really only strengthen the community that we also have with Denmark. So if the rapporteur could perhaps explain a little where you are worried about this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181806-2	I don't know if I'm the right person to ask. But I think it's crucial that there's been a balance... that's also why I started with this triangular drama... where the United States has stuck to their military presence in Thule and hasn't really interfered very much in anything else or more. And that's why what's going on is new. That is why it shows that, as we all know, there is a marked increase in interest in Greenland on the part of all the great powers. It puts under some pressure what you might call our partnership and alliance. That is the framework within which I think we should understand it. However, as I said, this initiative in itself does not bother me very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181855	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618181858	Thank you. A few weeks ago a book was published by a writer, whom I think the rapporteur is aware of, about the Danish diplomat Kauffmann, who in 1941 concluded an agreement with the Danish Government that the United States has Greenland militarily while we have it civilly. It's been like that ever since. On 23 April this year, when the American ambassador made this offer for the 83 million. kr., that principle is broken for the first time. I guess that's why it's a big deal. We agree that the amount is very small, but the principle is important because the United States is entering the civil area in Greenland. But when there is so much dissatisfaction with it among some Danish politicians, can the rapporteur hear an echo from the past when it was said: the United States has Greenland militarily, we have it civilly, and we should not cross each other's lines? I understand that the echo of a past time, which I can hear in the debate by some politicians, can cause some concern in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182004	I think it's a very precise analysis. That's what I was trying to say. There has been a balance and this is a step out of that balance, and I think that is why you are experiencing some concern. But it is a concern that can be dealt with in the best sense if you have a good dialogue and if you have the will to reach out and establish even stronger partnerships on the part of the Danish Government. So I'm a little tired of, to put it bluntly, this discussion, where we sometimes get to stand here and beat each other a little in the head with paragraphs and various laws... self-government law, constitution, and what do I know, because I see a broad interest in stronger foreign and security policy cooperation within the Kingdom community, and I experience a broad interest in strengthening our ties internally, while all parts of the Kingdom community can strengthen their ties with all sorts of others. All I am saying is that then it is important that we do both, if it is independence, not only for Greenland, but also for Denmark and for the Faroe Islands, it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182111	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182116	Thanks for the speech. It is really only a comment on the last exchange that took place between the rapporteur and Mr Beyer de Ryke. Sjúrður Skaale. I think it is a bit of simplification. It is so that during the Cold War, there was to such an extent a very, very large Danish naval force constantly around Greenland at a quite different level than what we see today. There were very many ships involved in it, including smaller ships. And at the same time there was also a presence of fighter planes in Søndre Strømfjord and in Narsarsuaq. So I do not entirely agree with it, because I think the Americans would have taken care of it themselves if we did not. It is also a little related to what I said, namely that if that is what is needed, we must find more money for the fleet in Greenland, perhaps for four, five additional inspection ships. That is what we talked about during the Cold War as something quite natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182215	I therefore agree with the conclusion and I think we will also look at an increased defence budget in relation to preparedness and so on. in and around Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But I think that was the point, if I understood it correctly, from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's side was that there has been some kind of understanding that the United States was present in Greenland militaryly and it is true that it has been much more massive than it is today but not civilianly. On both Greenlandic and Danish sides, there has been a fear of a total militarisation of the whole of Greenlandic society and a massive presence of Americans, many of whom are in Greenland. In other words, the echo of understanding that one had at the time is still running away in the current debate. But we are in a different situation on a global scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182311	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182320	Thank you. It is a little interesting, I think, that when we have the debates here about the Commonwealth, it sometimes becomes very black and white. And as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned, we are quickly beginning to talk about the articles of the Constitution or the articles of the Self-Government Act. But what this is really about is that we should, at least I think, have a dialogue on how developments are in the Kingdom community. There we as Danish politicians of course have an opinion and an opinion on what is happening in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. And vice versa, I also have dialogue and discussions with Greenlandic politicians about conditions in Denmark, just as I have with many other communities. Surely we should be able to have that discussion about what it means when the United States does this. Because I see nothing wrong with the fact that there are some investments being made and that some money is being sent. But it does not mean that at the same time I need to be completely naive about what the United States intends to do with it: what is behind it and what are we reading into it? And I think that we should be able to have an open dialogue and discussion about this, just as we should be dealing with it when things happen within the European Union; as when the Chinese buy the largest ports in Greece. There must be room for political dialogue on this too. This does not mean that we should be in charge of anyone, but we should be able to have the dialogue. What I think is really important for the future and I have said it a number of times when we have discussed the Kingdom Community is that we are starting a modern kingdom community. What does it mean today, by 2020, to be in a community together with three countries? In what way will we be, and how will we cooperate? We should not just beat each other up in the head with paragraphs from previous laws, we should also discuss: what does that mean politically, and what interaction do we want with each other? I think that could be a way to look forward and learn from this rather than end up in a rather polarised debate. Then I think that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen raised a very important point about also starting to define security policy, critical infrastructure, etc., so there are some very clear lines. However, this does not mean that we should not be able to discuss and have a dialogue beyond those lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182544	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618182600	Thank you. I now think that we are moving forward every day, and I think that we have come the last six or seven times we have discussed it within the few weeks that have been: both in connection with a DIIS report, a couple of conferences and a fairly large number of meetings in both the Board and the Committee. At any rate, these are subjects that will be debated, especially in the light of the Arctic, etc. I personally welcome the fact that Søren Espersen has moved to recognise now that Greenland is a welfare society that has huge potential, and also in the Chamber would like to give a very sharp criticism of an American society that has huge disadvantages. That gives us a chance to discuss it on a broad common basis. Otherwise, interest in the Arctic and Greenland is increasing in good and evil. It is almost a rivalry between the great powers. China is doing a lot of research in the Arctic and offers itself to the smaller countries with funding, design, construction and mining, etc., and the Russians are modernising at home so that they can make some money from the new North East Passage. They also equip or modernise their weapons in the northern ice sea. The United States has been a little late to get started and has only now discovered that the Arctic is something they need to interfere with, and they are then trying to keep up as best they can. The Arctic is about military, raw materials, new transport routes and climate change, and it is in this light that we must see the debate that we have today about US support for Greenland. The 82 million. kr., sir. Søren Espersen, is the same thing that we pay in Denmark in 6 days in block grants 6 days is equivalent to 82 million. kr. One should not have an illusion that the United States is doing this to help the Greenlanders or the Danes or the Commonwealth. It is, of course, because they have an interest in it and they have a self-interest in what is a great military interest in particular. Trump's eyes aren't blue in that sense, and he's only doing it for the United States. I guess he's doing it to be at the forefront, so the Chinese don't interfere too much up there. I would remind you that the Chinese interest in mining is huge. After all, we have discussed large scale with 10,000 Chinese workers during the period I have been in the Folketing. We have seen that the Chinese wanted to buy Green Valley, and all of a sudden we still needed it, even if no one wanted it at first. I would remind you that the Chinese also wanted to build, operate and finance three airports in Greenland. Therefore there had to be a fever rescue on the part of the Danish bourgeois government back then to avoid it, where Lars Løkke Rasmussen suddenly found a very large amount of millions. That is why it needs to be seen in a wider context, and that is why we need to discuss it in a wider context. That is why I am pleased that we are also having the debate on the Arctic Strategy on a regular basis. Often Greenland and the Faroe Islands perceive the fact that the Danish Government is twisting issues where it is a policy area that has been taken home in such a way that the Danish Government suddenly thinks that this is a security and foreign policy area. I understand the dilemma in it, and we need to find a solution to that. I think that one of the best ways of resolving this is to allow the three countries of the Commonwealth to share in formulating foreign policy. Then we can at least avoid someone playing us off against each other. And then I think that in the Arctic too we could talk a little more about making an alliance-free policy. I agree with Søren Espersen's criticism of the United States, and I think that there are as great and problematic consequences of their policy as there are in some contexts, for example. China's and Russia's. So I think we should consider whether we could not find better alliance partners, for example. If we joined forces in the Nordic countries and helped formulate a policy there we have a common starting point and a common culture and also a common foreign policy so that we should not be dependent on what the Foreign Minister calls our close allies. Honestly, I'm not so fond of a near ally called Trump to tell you the truth. I would much rather formulate foreign policy with Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands.I do not know if I have forgotten anyone. That is why I find it annoying that our Foreign Minister is constantly closing his eyes to the United States' failings and their rather less neat intentions. I do not have to mention that they have not cleaned up their 30 military bases, that the service agreement is not yet in place and that both air and waterways to Thule Base have been stolen from the Greenlanders. These are amounts which are considerably higher than 82 million. DKK, which is at stake there, and which has been taken from Greenland and from Greenlandic and Danish companies. So I think there are many opportunities for us to move forward, and I also think that the new Arctic strategy we are going to discuss can contain very, very important elements about providing opportunities both for Greenland and the Faroe Islands to move forward towards independence and at least have an economy that is sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183146	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183148	Just at the beginning of the Thule contract, I would like to say that this problem is being resolved now, that is, the problem that arose as a result of Danish and Greenlandic politicians snorkeling per hour in the meetings that were held. The Americans have now agreed that this should be done in some way in favour of Greenland. Then Mr. Christian Juhl, that the three countries of the Commonwealth cooperate on security and foreign policy. This is already happening! Well, it's been going on for the last 5-10 years in really big style. No decision will be taken on the Arctic without the three countries participating at government level. So that's it, sir. Christian Juhl suggests is like kicking in an open door.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183234	Well, I'd be delighted if sir. Søren Espersen is right. But then we must try to discuss with our two partners in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and see if it is true that they feel that this is a complete division of the task. That is not my view, and that is what is the debate over and over again, including in Greenland, and I am listening to those debates because I think it is interesting. To the matter of Pittufik and Thulebasen, I agree that it was a scandal for the Danish Government and perhaps also for the Greenlanders I do not know how much they were in it at all that the service agreement disappeared, but I am now not sure that it is on the flat hand right away. The mere inclusion of EU rules in it helped make it a failure and helped us lose that agreement. That really was a scandal, and I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Søren Espersen in. But let's see, I'd rather have the bird in my hand than on the roof.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183332	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183334	But just about the cooperation that is: No matter what, what interest should the Danish government have in sitting and deciding a whole lot of foreign and security policy in the Arctic without involving the three countries? Who will benefit? I now see that, at least when it comes to foreign and security policy, there is a very good and continuous dialogue and that Greenlanders and Faroese people are taking part in the meetings that are essential. So I don't think there's anything to put a finger on there. And then again, what interest should we have in it? Why should we enjoy it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183413	I have also asked myself this question, quite often even, and I have asked changing governments, including those governments which Mr. Søren Espersen has supported: why on earth is it so important for every foreign minister in Denmark to say that power is here when we can share it? I agree that in the Arctic Council and elsewhere there are consultations, and that is necessary, but there is still an uncultivated area where we could do much, much better for us as well as for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So I'm not afraid to continue working on that. We haven't finished that task at all, sir. Søren Espersen. We have started on it, that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183453	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, I can see in the Chamber, is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183504	Thank you for that and thank you for an exciting debate on an important subject. It is not the first time that the Danish People's Party has raised it, and the Danish People's Party should be thanked for that. I do not know how much we change the world by discussing it, but I believe in some way that we change ourselves by having these discussions from time to time, and I think that is also very positive. The game between the United States, Denmark and Greenland and the history of World War II and beyond seems to me to have been presented with a very exemplary clarity by Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and therefore it is a little too bad that he is not here to receive praise and recognition in this way. And I also agree with the political implications, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard's work has. Greenland has a physical location that makes it unacceptable for the United States not to be able to maintain Thulebasen, and I do not think we should have a debate in the Folketing about Thulebasen without talking about H.C. Hansen's 1957 note, which says that the United States can maintain Thulebase in the way that the United States would like. It has been a bit taboo for some time to talk about the note, but it is basically the prerequisite for things to go the way they do. I also think it was important to mention that the United States has offered to buy Greenland in the past. In 1946 under President Truman, the United States wanted to buy Greenland for 100 million. Dollars, I think it was. It was refused at this time, but it is a real wish that one has and that appears from time to time. And I think in a way that the purchase offer that came in 2019 was fine, because it came out emphatically that it wants neither Greenland nor Denmark. Greenland is a welfare state, and it wants a massive majority of the population in Greenland to remain. And if you look at how things are going on in Alaska, for example, I think that everyone is aware that it is completely unthinkable that Greenland could work, as Greenland is doing today, if you implement a system such as that which, for example, is in place. is in Alaska. I think we will have to consult each other in the future, both here and in other fora, on the issue of rivalry between major powers such as the United States, China and Russia. The Chinese are also very interested in the Arctic region. Sir. Søren Espersen was on that delegation trip to China in 2017, where we also talked about the Arctic with the Chinese, and where they proudly told about their atomic icebreaker Snow Dragon, who can also sail up to Greenland if it is to be. Of course, this rivalry between the superpowers will have major consequences for the Arctic and also for Greenland. And in the same way that the United States does not offer welfare in Alaska as the one built up in Greenland, so it is also just the case that experience says at least that the Chinese do not treat their partners in infrastructure projects in the same lenient way as they may otherwise treat partners in infrastructure projects. So we get these debates in the future, and that's really good. What the conclusions will of course be too early to say, but I think we have had a good debate, and if not others will say so, I would like to thank Mrs Annette Lind for having taken up the work of bringing the entire Folketing together for a joint adoption. It is not very long ago that my own party chairman was Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I know that the Danish Parliament can be a flea bag. I'm sorry, I say it when you have to have all the players on a joint statement. So it's a good job, and thanks for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183935	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618183949	Thank you very much. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate, it should also sound from IA. Interest in Greenland and the Arctic has rarely been greater, and the United States in particular has changed its gear and entered the battle. The United States has shown interest in the Arctic region, which has become an area of great power rivalry, major politics and competition. The most obvious is in fact the purchase offer that Trump made in relation to Greenland. Although Greenland is open to cooperation, we are not for sale • a message that the Americans have also embraced. That does not mean that they have given up, they have simply changed their style, and diplomatic initiatives are currently falling like pearls on a leash: firstly, the economic package, which is why we are standing here today, and then the opening of the consulate. And I'm gonna need you to sneak up on me if you don't follow me anymore. Personally, I see no indication that the American line will change significantly in the coming years, no matter who ends up sitting in the White House from the new year. That is why we should already consider how and how we are going to deal with the United States. We think it is important that we look forward and not back. Of course, there are some mistakes that we can learn from • take advantage of our experience and thus strengthen our competences • but it is important not to dwell on the past either. That is why we also think it is important to say that Naala Suisut has approved this agreement. We respect that, and there are certainly advantages in cooperating with the United States, but we have also been critical of the motivation and background of the project package, not least in view of the fact that it is an American President who has been elected repeatedly on a slogan about America first. That is why we also believe that there are some considerations that we need to take forward. Firstly, it is about maintaining Greenland and the Arctic as a low-voltage area. We know that the United States is an ally and a partner, but the very bombastic rhetoric in relation to China and Russia is worrying because it is arming up in the Arctic. We also find it worrying about the increasing Russian military activity, both when it comes to bases, fighters and submarines in the area. From Greenland we do not want war. We want the Arctic to be a peace zone and we do not want to contribute to increasing militarisation in the Arctic. Secondly, we also believe that it is important to decide who Greenland can take money from, and we should really have a more fundamental discussion about foreign investment. Naalaksuisut has said in the past that all money is welcome, but we think that from IA is too cheap. With foreign investment there are also interests, and we have to take a critical view of them, not least at home in Greenland. Today we know that Canada, Australia and England are investing in the raw material area in Greenland. In recent years China has followed suit and we also know that the United States is starting to interfere. This also gives us reason to consider our red lines and where the investments should actually come from. We believe that there is a need for a more clear investment policy at home in Greenland, where, of course, we also have respect for the areas taken home, but at the same time we find a good balance in terms of security. We also recognise that there is work going on here in the Folketing in relation to a screening mechanism, a work that we have not heard so much yet, but which we welcome and look forward to hearing more about. Then we also know that the work on the Kingdom's Arctic strategy has been set in motion. We had a meeting yesterday in the Danish Parliament, and we also believe that it provides a platform to take up the debate on what we really want with the Arctic and how best to achieve it, not least with the two issues in mind. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618184408	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Next on the platform is Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618184427	Thank you for the floor. If we look at it historically, there has been cooperation around Greenland between the United States and Denmark. And when that cooperation was founded, it was not necessary to involve Greenland and the Greenlanders. No, back then it wasn't like some people have been talking a little bit about America first, but Denmark first. Of course, time has changed, thank God, and that is probably why we are talking about legislation; that is why we are talking about the self-government law; that is why we are talking about the constitution. For example: is the self-government law, which has given us the framework for having this debate, where Greenland is also involved, very important, because the Folketing has also helped to adopt this self-government law, which we are starting from this discussion. What we are talking about is also important because there is of course some kind of concern to those who have taken this initiative for a debate. There may be security and foreign policy issues that fall within the scope of the Constitution, among other things, and that may be of concern, but it is equally worrying for us that there are phrases from up here saying that foreign policy and security policy are what we decide in here. And yet it is more confusing when you say in the same sentence that you care a lot about involvement and cooperation and equality we also have to remember. Because when we talk about those aspects, it's very important that we remember that this is a co-operation done in equality and joint conversation. And, of course, it is also important to remember that it can always get better, but we can take that from here, because it has not bypassed anyone's nose tip that this has happened. I hope that we can find a common solution, and I believe that we can, precisely because we have all agreed, together with this text of adoption, which Mrs Annette Lind has also contributed to, to try to find out what we can agree on. Because I think we can easily find out when we sit down and say: what are we really worried about? What can we do together to reduce these concerns? And what is it that makes Greenland just as concerned that this debate may suddenly flare up? Is it the rhetoric that can be harmful? If it is, let's have that talk too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618184719	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618184737	Thank you. A few weeks ago a book was published by Bo Lidegaard entitled "Without a mandate" which deals with how Greenland was divided between Denmark and the United States. It was an agreement made in 1941 in Washington without a mandate from the Danish government by an important Danish diplomat. The idea was that the United States got 100 percent military access to Greenland, and in return Denmark should have control of Greenland as a colony purely civilian, and that line has, like, been kept until probably 23 April this year, when the United States for the first time moves into the civilian area with these 83 million. kr. and make some investments and cooperate on some things with the Greenlandic authorities. 83 million kr. is a very, very small amount, but it is quite true that it is an important principle that is broken when a border is crossed that has not been crossed since 1941. Especially from the bourgeois side of the Folketing has been very worried about it. It has been said that this can create rifts in the Kingdom community, that it can create a dangerous precedent, and that there is a strong concern about what has happened and so on, as I have heard today, while the Minister on the other hand says that the government could not dream of interfering in whom Greenland cooperates with in acquired areas. I am particularly pleased that the government is saying this; it is very important because what can cause rifts in the Kingdom community, and what should be of concern, is if there are signals coming from Denmark to Greenland, where they say: You must not cooperate with the United States on taken over responsibilities. We do not respect that you have taken over matters; they are still gone so or so Danish, and we must approve everything, even if it is not security policy at all. This is something that I can well understand raises concern in Greenland, and it is also something that caused concern when it emerged in the Faroese debate, i.e. that one does not want to respect the fact that an area is taken over. So it's completely the other way around. What can pierce the Kingdom community is the reverse, namely that you indicate that you want to interfere with something that you have given away. Then there is another thing, and that is that the United States, NATO, Denmark and the whole NATO alliance need Greenland to such an extent, and you also need the Faroe Islands. Greenland was extremely important during the Cold War, and so was the Faroe Islands. Very important NATO installations were set up in Greenland, and very important radar installations were set up in the Faroe Islands; a very important part of the entire Early warning system in the Western world was set up in the Faroe Islands. But the fact that these institutions were outside the Faroese population and the Faroese authorities, and the only thing one saw about NATO's presence were warships, radars, soldiers and military hardware, aroused a dislike among the people, and every year there were marches from the great radar installations up in the mountains and down to Thorshavn, where they protested about it here. The slogan was, "Out with NATO." It was not because we did not see ourselves as part of the West, but because the installations were constructed in a wrong way without involvement. And then you look at Iceland. Iceland was also an extremely important part of the entire defence, and the Americans under NATO were also present civilianly. They built an airport, almost like a gift to Iceland. I believe that it is important for the whole NATO alliance that there is support for NATO among the people of Greenland and Faroese, and one way to secure that support is to look at NATO's most important country, namely the United States, other than military uniforms, ships, radars and such. This is very important, so I actually very much welcome it. There is much talk about China having great interests in the Arctic. China officially has what is called the Polar silk road, where it makes a kind of Silk Road in the Arctic with large investments to link the countries to it, and it is perfectly legitimate that the United States also has those thoughts, and if you do something that is completely safe in the matter that has been taken over, I do not see it at all dangerous or worrying in it. I can't even see the cracks it was supposed to create. I think that is only positive. So I support the government 100% in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618185251	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Now we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next one to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618185306	Thank you, Mr President, and first of all thank you, Mr President. Søren Espersen to raise, as always, a hugely important, relevant and good debate on important issues, which are core issues for Denmark, for Greenland, for the Faroe Islands and for our foreign and security policy and for the world in which we stand. I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to say that it is a debate that has made it clear that there is no doubt about where the government is on this issue of the Commonwealth and relations with the United States, namely that we are talking about core Danish interests. These are core interests for all of us. It is clear, as was also the case in the debate on Question No. F 18 in December last year, that the United States is increasingly showing interest in Greenland and that it is important that we translate that interest into the priorities of Naala Suisut, which is about developing and opening up the Greenlandic community to trade, investment and diversification of the economy. I should like to make a few points at the outset. The question has been asked what the project package that has then been made means. For me and for the government, this means that some of the priorities we have had for many years in connection with the American military presence in Greenland must also translate into a commitment by the United States which benefits Greenlandic society and the Greenlandic population. Denmark is a small country, the Faroe Islands is a small country, and Greenland is a small country, and therefore we want to open up to the world, diversify our economy and trade with each other. I think it is really important to say that this shows that Greenland is on the path that you want. Then it has been raised, and now it is a pity that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is no longer in the Chamber, a question of how to deal with new foreign and security policy threats, critical infrastructure and investment screening. I would just like to mention that it is important to make it clear that the government generally welcomes foreign investment, no matter where it comes from. This is true in Denmark, it is true in the Faroe Islands, and it is true in Greenland. Our growth and welfare depend, among other things, on: of foreign investment. At the same time, however, it is important that we have the necessary tools for effective action against investments that may involve safety risks, for example. investments in critical infrastructure. As has also been mentioned in this Chamber, work is being done on legislation on the screening of foreign investment for security reasons. It is an important work and a work that the government gives priority to. Moreover, the European Union has also recently adopted a regulation on the screening of foreign direct investment to which Denmark is subject. And that is the starting point for that work. So the challenges that may be associated with certain types of investment are the same for all parts of the Kingdom community. That is really important to emphasise. So when you open up to the world, you have the same risks. That is why the Kingdom has broad interests in the Arctic, and it is both security policy, economic and environmental. They go hand in hand. But you can't choose one over the other. In general, I can say that the government is working on a system for screening foreign investment for security reasons. It will be a tool that minimises potential security risks without raising unnecessary barriers to economic development. Greenland and the Faroe Islands participate as observers in this work, and the government is in dialogue with Naalaksuisut and the national government about a corresponding future work for Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively. I think it is important for all of us, because this is a joint task, to find the right balance between the interests of security on the one hand and those of socio-economic development on the other. As I said, today we are benefiting from foreign investment in the Kingdom community. We must continue to do so. Then, with regard to the more fundamental debate, I would like to say that it is very important for the government to create even better cooperation on foreign and security policy, based on trust, mutual respect and proper involvement of each other. I don't think that's something that can be written down on a formula. I believe that this is something about the way we are together, as several rapporteurs have said. I think sir... Rasmus Nordqvist from SF and others mentioned it. In order to have that trust in one another, we also need to exercise trust in one another. I think that is really crucial. This also means that when you have a law of autonomy and when you have taken over areas to which you are seeking international partners, it is important to show that confidence. If you have things that have foreign and security policy implications, that is something we share, but, of course, in areas that have been taken over, you can cooperate, for example. in the field of tourism, industrial development and mining, with partners around the world; it is quite natural. That is what I think is absolutely crucial. So we need to be able to trust each other. And you only gain confidence by showing trust in each other, as does mutual respect for each other's differences; that we therefore understand that there are some things you want and respect that you are going in a direction of opening up to the outside world. Then I would like to thank all the rapporteurs. I think that the proposal for adoption, which has been put together, also thanks to Mrs Annette Lind for that, shows once again that we can have a broad and good debate in the Folketing. I wish we had the whole evening to continue the debate. We are meeting together on a proposal for adoption that hits where we need to stand together in relation to the challenges that exist, both in Greenland and the Kingdom Community and in the world we are looking into. I would like to thank you for that. I think this is a good backlash to cooperation and the right way to do it I look forward to what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also mentioned, namely the Arctic strategy with which we are working and the community around it. I am very concerned as Danish Foreign Minister that this work takes place in openness, with involvement and a proper debate. Before you put a line on a paper, you have to have a proper debate on the things we have to deal with. If we do this in the right way, we can strengthen the Kingdom community in relation to the challenges we face. So what is the government's objective is trust, mutual respect and a strengthened Kingdom community in relation to foreign and security policy and the world we are looking into and that we are giving the Kingdom community the opportunity to develop their country in the direction that they want. This is what this project package is also an expression of. When Naalaksuisut has some desires for business development, education, tourism and mining and many other things, we must back up the government in Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190000	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190006	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. I will continue the good tone and start by commending the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the way in which this matter has been dealt with, because I think that the government has been very good in this matter, as well as having respect for the fact that Greenland must also have something to say in relation to repatriated areas. So thank you so much. But then I would also like to ask a question, because some of what concerns us a little, as we hear from Naala Suisut, is that we do not want common guidelines in relation to the screening of investment from outside, and I would like to hear what the government thinks about it. For it could be a fine tool, as long as it does not, like, tighten its feet to ensure that Greenland can also get investment from outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190055	As I said, we in the government are working on a system for the screening of foreign investment on the grounds of security, and this is a tool that we need to develop and which will minimise these potential security risks without creating unnecessary barriers to economic development. That is where the balancing point lies. Greenland and the Faroe Islands are participating as observers in this work, and I think that should be the way we do it. Then we will achieve a result and we will come forward with legislative proposals in the next session of this Parliament from the Danish side. But the wish is that we look into the world and look at how we can jointly defend our security interests, because there is And modern technology has also expanded the area of what critical infrastructure is. So that's the kind of thing we're going to work on together. And I am very confident that we will find common solutions in the three parts of the empire.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190156	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190158	Thank you very much for your answer. My second question concerns the issue of security policy and critical infrastructure, because that is where we at least want the IA to provide a little clearer guidelines and perhaps definitions of what it is. And that is particularly true from the point of view of what we have experienced throughout history, which is to say that we are sometimes told that this is a security policy, so that is where we have to go in and intervene from the Danish side, where we actually saw it as a reclaimed area from Greenland. So I'd like to know if the government is open to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190230	Yes, and that is why the work is important to uncover and clarify what critical infrastructure is and how we deal with our security risks, while at the same time we want to diversify our economy and open up investment and open up trade in the world. We have the same goals for Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. And it's a job that's going on. I also mentioned that the European Union has made various recommendations in relation to what we can lean on. So I look forward to that very much. As I said, I think it is important for us in the Kingdom Community to deal with this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190306	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but then the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190321	Thank you very much to all those who have been involved in this debate. I think it's been exciting. Again, I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mrs Annette Lind for the work that has been done to bring the Danish Parliament together here. I think it is a good proposal for adoption that we have received. I would say that I take the renewed commitment of the United States to Greenland very, very seriously, and I ask that it should not be underestimated. It can be for good and for evil. There are good things as well as bad things, but you really have to pay attention to what is going on at the moment and not just push it off and say: everything will be fine and we will find out. I believe that there is a need for much deeper cooperation between the three countries in the Commonwealth. Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam mentioned it herself when she said just now that it is essential that this is a joint task that needs to be solved. There I think that the systems of cooperation currently available are simply not sufficient. It is good that the Prime Minister has rich meetings and also that ministers sometimes have some sporadic visits and discussions with their colleagues in the two countries, but that is not enough. I remember that sir. Martin Lidegaard has arrived and I have also discussed it with him with an idea of getting some parliamentary forum because we do not know each other anymore. What is happening at the moment is, as I see it, that the Kingdom community is crumbling before our eyes, and the tragic thing is that more and more people in all three countries are indifferent. I experience this when I get out and, exceptionally, we talk about the Kingdom and Greenland with people. They don't care, as do the many contacts I have both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. It's crumbling, and we don't really seem to take it seriously, and I'm really sorry about that. Mrs Nauja Lynge, who has made some good crowns around it, also has to be recreated, because it doesn't work anymore. After all, there was always a commitment before, I think, between the three countries. I remember when I was young it's a good many years ago there was a different kind of commitment to it than you have now, when you could really ask any schoolboy and girl what they thought of it, and it was so much that you wouldn't do without it. Today, I experience almost an uproar right in front of our eyes. I would like to take the initiative in order to ensure that there were others with me as well; Mr. Martin Lidegaard is at least concerned about this, I know that a parliamentary forum is just going to take place in the first place, and once it has been established in a sensible way with actual sessions, annual sessions, it must also really be strengthened in the education sector, especially among primary school children in all three countries, so that they understand what we have for us and so that they also understand what it is that we are about to lose, because we are simply not taking it seriously enough. So with this happy announcement in the end, I thank you for the debate and thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190651	There are just a few brief comments. And the first is Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190656	Thank you for the floor and thank you for what the rapporteur said. I can tell that there are some things we can agree on, but it's like we're talking a little past each other. And that is also sometimes what I feel often happens when we try to debate what the Kingdom community stands for. The same thing happens when we try to debate state formation. Because when we talk about state formation from Siumut, it does not mean that we want to exclude Denmark from cooperation or closer cooperation in some other areas perhaps. It just means that we want a more equal relationship, and that, for example, that. Greenland in this case now opens up to the rest of the world and no longer only focuses on Denmark, does not mean that Denmark will then be excluded. And I think that this development actually helps to create a greater breeding ground for stronger cooperation with Denmark regardless of state formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190800	Well, it could definitely be a road. I mean, I think that the essence of what Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam says is that it is an equal relationship, and we are all interested in that too. In this way, it is not history teaching anymore, where it was a perfectly natural thing, that it was not discussed at all with either Greenlanders or Faroese when this system started. But that is what we are doing today, and of course we are doing it, because we are changing over time and becoming more sensible than we have been in the past. In any case, it is necessary to do so here. I spoke to Mr. Christian Juhl here says that Greenland and the Faroe Islands would like to be involved in Arctic decisions, including foreign and security policy. For one might say: What benefit should we have from the opposite? Well, I would like there to be a really close cooperation when it comes to the Arctic, also in Denmark's defence, by the way. I mean, it's the defense of the realm, and it's essential that we really work together. So yes, that would be a possible way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190911	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190913	Thank you. It might also be interesting to explore the future construction of what we can call this community. Now let's play with the idea of "and now we're also talking about foreign and security policy" that it's no longer just Greenland or the Faroe Islands who have to surrender some of their sovereignty to Denmark. What if it is all countries that surrender sovereignty to a new construction that is called, let us say, a community of the three countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618190945	I do not need to comment on such a question. It is very interesting what is being asked. Of course, it is important to explore the possibilities that exist. As I said, I was a member of the Self-Government Commission. We had 17 meetings, and I actually think you got a sense of all the possibilities that are really there, but as such it is just in a book now on a shelf. There we had the opportunity to discuss this in a parliamentary circle. It was a fantastic experience to be involved in, and I think that all the parties really made an effort, both from Denmark and Greenland; the Faroe Islands were not in that discussion. But yes, the opportunity must be explored, and we must also get to know each other better. Because, as I said, it's crumbling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191030	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191032	First of all, I would just like to thank you very much for the debate. It is always good that the Danish People's Party is so committed to this issue, even though we can have many different views on many things. One of the things we agree on after all is more education in primary school. I remember that when I grew up in Nuuk, we had a lot of training about the trees and leaves and such things that you might as a Greenlander only experienced every year, maybe sometimes several years apart. So it was kind of absurd. So there is still a lot of teaching today in Greenland about Denmark, and I really liked there to be teaching about the modern In the same way one could imagine that in museums there was also more Greenlandic culture. It could also be imagined that some money was allocated to documentary films dealing with modern Greenland. So there are a large number of things that could be put into practice by the Danish Parliament. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191139	I'm one hundred percent in agreement with teaching, teaching, teaching about this. And I never understood why it was so interesting for high schools to send the students to Prague to get drunk. It's just as fun getting drunk in Thorshavn... I've experienced that repeatedly. Why not go to camp camp there? And let us provide some support for us to be able to handle these very, very expensive trips, as it will be after all; it is more expensive to go to Greenland than it is to go to the Czech Republic. However, as a natural thing, camping stays may prefer for high school students should take place between countries. We would like to see that very, very much. Education is central, because I believe that by the next generation it will be forgotten and hidden.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191224	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191226	We in the IA believe that knowledge and dialogue are crucial to breaking some of these prejudices about Greenlanders as well. There have also been these many demonstrations in relation to Black Lives Matter, and I also know that there are a lot of people in Greenland who also see a form of funny racism, you might call it, compared to Greenlanders who live in Denmark. I just think that it is extremely important that we ensure that much more knowledge is gained about modern Greenlandic society, so that we have some of the things that are unacceptable. I really hope that the government and the Folketing will focus more on taking some independent initiatives in relation to the image of Greenlanders in Denmark, so that it becomes more nuanced than what we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191310	Of course, I totally agree with that. There must be nuances in this and there must be order in the way we talk about each other and each other. I certainly think so. I would also like to see the opposite situation: in Greenland there are currently many Danes who may be there as craftsmen for a shorter period, who find it very difficult to avoid being yelled at on the street etc. There is a discrepancy, a distrust, especially between Denmark and Greenland. It is not so common in the relationship between the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but there is a distrust among everyone in this, and it needs to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191351	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191353	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that there was greater support and interest for the Kingdom community before. I don't know if that's exactly right. Twenty years ago, the Faroe Islands were on their way out of the Kingdom Community, and polls in Denmark showed that almost 70 percent. of the population, I think it was, wanted the Faroe Islands out of the kingdom community. It's gotten better than then, anyway. In relation to the study trip to Prague, if you raise it to a political level and look northward, you can say that it is also a challenge that you may not engage so much in foreign policy in Denmark. So much resources are used in the Middle East instead of looking north and using resources where the kingdom is. So one last thing, and that's that when mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Søren Espersen meets about this vision of the future, I'd be grateful if I had an invitation to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191450	Well, sir. Sjúrður Skaale is hereby appointed President and the organiser thank you for this. Then we'll be very good cop. I didn't know about the fact that we were so interested in getting rid of the cousins back then... I'm gonna read that up a little bit. There must have been something. It may have been that case from Klaksvik, where a little panic came in that has done it all. Wasn't that a vet? I think it was? Or a doctor? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191515	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191517	There was, as the rapporteur will recall, a bank case. There was a total mistrust, there was no talk of it during the 1980s. You went completely wrong with each other and didn't bother each other anymore. That's what happened back then. I mean, it went really wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191536	I have no comment to make on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191543	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 23 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200618191553	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 19 June 2020 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
