ParlaMint-DK_20200317101004	The meeting is open. Members are asked to distribute themselves in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101012	The items listed as No. 1, 2 and 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101035	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101051	Thank you so much. Of course, we think it is very positive that the government has come up with some initiatives here to help Danish business. This terrible crisis not only hits us healthily but also affects the Danish jobs, the Danish business community, and that is why we have to keep our hands under them. That is why we are pleased that the government has tabled this bill. We also welcome the fact that the government has responded to some of the concerns that have been raised in committee and has moved towards SMEs. But it's obvious that this package can't do it for Danish business. We need further initiatives if we are to secure jobs and ensure that Danish business is also similar to itself after this crisis. And that is why we in the Left call on the government to call for negotiations to make further initiatives to ensure that we still have jobs and a well-functioning Danish business community after this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101154	Thank you. We are in the sad situation of thousands of entrepreneurial small self-employed people who have experienced overnight that order books are empty, that the number of customers is in sharp decline and that earnings are gone because of the corona virus. They are craftsmen, they are hairdressers, they are small restaurants, they are freelancers. In short, they are people who have created good, healthy businesses for the benefit of society and who are now at risk of turning the key and waving goodbye to their life's work and facing an uncertain future. These people, of course, also deserve a help and also a better help than the one we have put forward so far by the Danish Parliament. Of course, it is not only the public and private employees that we are keeping our hands on; it is also the hard-working self-employed. I would actually like to sign that the government has already taken several decisions and has also looked at postponing the payment of B tax for self-employed workers. That is good, but it is not enough, and it is something that primarily benefits those who have a turnover to pay VAT and tax of the coming time, and not those who have already lost their earnings. So more is needed, and that is what is needed fairly quickly. A number of concrete proposals on what could be done would be that the money already paid into VAT by self-employed and small businesses just over 14 days ago would be repaid to companies so that all self-employed people who had a healthy business before the corona crisis, so to speak, would have a boost in liquidity. The same could be done with AM contributions and A-tax returns, not as a temporary, not as a loan, but as a permanent. And then we should also consider whether the time has come to continue pulling taxes out of the pockets of pressured self-employed people. We could suspend the payment of excise duties in the coming months, and we could drop the coverage charge to the municipalities • it would especially help restaurants and shops. And we could also suspend the payment of the space heating charge; it is paid especially by hotels and restaurants and retail shops. There are several things that we can address. The key now must not be to crawl money into the treasury, but to give back some of the money to the companies and to the self-employed, who have paid money to the state and who have a healthy business, but who are now heavily pressured. If I have to make a wish on this a little longer, it will be that we give business calm and security and good framework conditions to restore itself on top of this crisis. And there is no point in helping companies with one hand now and here and then on the other side of the summer with the other hand to pull new taxes and taxes out of the pockets of pressured self-employed people. And you've noticed that at least the total left in this Parliament, which I think takes responsibility now, I don't want to point the finger at you now, and here I went to the election to raise taxes with a total of over 65 billion. kr., and so far taxes have only been increased by 8 billion. kr. in the form of 17 tax increases. And there will be my plea to the government and the support parties that you drop your election vows, so to speak, to raise taxes by over 50 billion. kr. for the Danish business community in the coming time. This is the last thing Danish economy and Danish jobs need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101518	When I take the floor, it is a little in line with the others, but it is also really just to say, first of all, that I thought it was a very good bill that the government made, which we first dealt with last Friday. But I would also just like to say that I think it is a bill that has improved even more, because it has actually succeeded in bringing in a number of amendments in committee with which we have just voted, among other things. the fact that the B-tax is now also being postponed. This is something that will benefit a great many small businesses. I think most of us understand that they are probably the ones who get the hardest. The fact that VAT is also deferred for the very small people who have half-yearly settlements and those who have three-month settlements means that we are now up to a bill which is worth 165 billion. kr. This is a very large sum that can now be taken in hand over the period. I would also like to say that I think it is very good that we can stand together as a Parliament and take initiatives of this kind. But I would also just like to say, as a side remark, that I was a little puzzled that the government then launched it yesterday as a government package. This is something that has come through through the committee procedure. We are a broad parliament where all parties support this proposal. I think we should keep doing that. That is why I find it strange that the government needs to say that now it is the government's proposal, when it is actually something we all think is a good idea. So I would actually just like to support what both the Left and the Liberal Alliance have said so far and say that I think some discussions should be called for. Because in the Danish People's Party we are in complete agreement: we do not believe this is enough. There are many more initiatives we need to take to keep our hands on our important business community. Because, although this is primarily a health crisis, there are incredibly great consequences where people can risk losing their jobs, losing their life's work in a company and other misfortunes. That is why it is incredibly important that we continue to work together, and I would just like to appeal to the House not to try to run a solo on something on which there is in fact a broad consensus and which Parliament is trying to get through through through the committee work. With that said, of course, I have to say that the Danish People's Party supports this bill. I would really just like to hope that we could sit together and try to find some further initiatives we could take together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101717	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101731	Thank you. Unfortunately, our tax rapporteur could not be here today, so you must settle for me as a messenger. In Radicals we are grateful for the thousands of companies that run their business in Denmark. They keep Denmark up, and now it's our turn in the Folketing to keep them up. Because in Denmark we help each other and come together through the crisis. That is why, of course, we support this aid package for the Danish companies. In addition to the main elements of the proposal, we are particularly pleased with the extra support given to small businesses when we move the two annual VAT-free months to April and May respectively, so that the liquidity is not burdened with those bills. In the Radical Left we are deeply grateful to all Danes who choose to become self-employed, and we know that this can only be the first step. We look forward to this aid package, together with the other, which we hope to adopt today, being the first hand out of several, so that we take all the tools out of the drawer and do everything we can to help Danish companies, big and small, through the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101841	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317101857	I would like to thank the government for the initiatives it has taken so far, which we all support. The government has had to act under very great pressure of time. It is important that business initiatives are also taken quickly, because we are looking towards the abyss. There are already 15 000 people who have been dismissed in hotels and restaurants. Here at the end of the month we can see that there will be many, many more that will be terminated if there is no more trade than has already been done. The companies that are most severely affected will not benefit very much from the initiatives that have been put forward so far. For example: a postponement of VAT will only benefit those companies which have a surplus of VAT. In other words, those companies which currently have no profits will benefit zero from postponing the payment of future VAT. They would benefit greatly if the VAT they have just paid back at the beginning of March was repaid, because there have been a number of companies that have been healthy and strong and have put a lot of money into the treasury before they were hit by the corona virus. However, those who are now down to zero turnover will not benefit from the delay of VAT in the next six months. Moreover, it is also a relatively free procedure for the State to postpone VAT payments at a time of negative interest. We feel that the state could contribute more. There is a need for real financial support to be given to the sectors most affected by economic activity. They do not need liquidity as much as they need to reduce their costs. That is why we are proposing to look at reducing some of the taxes that burden some of the sectors most affected. It could be the cover tax. It could be that payment of labour market contributions was reduced or deferred. It could be weight fees for the transport industry. There are a large number of taxes that will be more targeted than postponing the payment of VAT. It is not because we do not support it. We do. We all support business facilitation, we think these are good initiatives. But it is to provide constructive input on how we help those who are really hard hit. Because so far this is not enough, and there will be massive layoffs and bankruptcies here at the end of the month, if we do nothing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102115	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102124	Of course, from the point of view of the new citizens, we also support the measures to help with the situation of liquidity. We also support the fact that later today we can hold hands with some private employees out there, but we also need to help small self-employed people, and we, like other parties, would like to encourage the government to call for negotiations. There are many good ideas here. I hear it's a broad parliament that wants to take responsibility for this, so let's stand together now. I've cleared the calendar, I've heard many good constructive suggestions from different parties, let's take up the glove and then work together and get Denmark through this. We have a health crisis; there is also an economic recession and a crisis that is here right now. We can see that day by day people are losing their jobs. There are small self-employed people who say: now we have to turn the key. We have just under 200,000 small self-employed people in Denmark; we need them to be there when this health crisis is over. The next successes lie in small businesses, perhaps single companies • if they are the key now, they will not get started again, and we therefore need them to lift the Danish economy when the health crisis is over. So now is the time to look after these tiny little companies, and we have a joint responsibility for that. This is an extraordinary situation, so my call is: get those meetings convened, let us now stand together to help small businesses too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102302	We also support this bill. It's a very good bill. From Enhedslisten's side, we agree with our bourgeois members of the Folketing that not enough has been done. Because the point is that with the tripartite agreement made with this bill that needs to be voted through now, there are still a lot of people who are not covered by the safety net we have today. And one of the things we think it is important to implement is to introduce a rule that one should not shut down one's CVR number completely, that is to say shut down one's business, in order to be able to receive a daily allowance. At the same time, it is also the case that many people have not joined an unemployment insurance fund when they have a company because they knew that they would have to shut down their business altogether in order to receive a daily allowance. And that is why we also have to, we think, make a window on, for example. 14 days, giving people the opportunity to join the a-box. At the same time, it is also obvious that when we have restrictions, for example. In relation to the length of the benefit period of 2 years, the period now in the corona period should not count there. In other words, in our view, the period of benefit will have to be extended by the time this corona crisis lasts, and this also applies to people on sickness benefits and to people on supplementary allowances, just to mention some of the elements included in the proposals that we have had yesterday and which we have also presented to the government and presented at the meeting where party leaders and financial rapporteurs were present. So we are very interested in both spreading the safety net out and also making the safety net more neatly masked for those who may be covered by e.g. We look forward to the constructive discussions which we actually think the government has invited and given rise to, and we are prepared to play constructively in this debate. Because we think that the traces of the last financial crisis scare us not yet in a real economic crisis, but we think that it must be the case that the bill should not be sent to those who have the least and earn the least, but that there should be socialism for all groups. This means that we should be particularly concerned about those who have the most difficulty; those who have the least; the small self-employed, freelancers and hourly-paid, but also the companies in general. Unfortunately, however, we last saw how bank packages were given for billions, while the bill was sent to the sick and the unemployed and the disabled during the last crisis, and there we certainly do not think we should end up again. But once again, we welcome the initiatives that have been taken and we want to play constructively, and we see that there is a good dialogue between all parties here in the Folketing, and we want to continue with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. And I'm gonna ask the Secretaries to get ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102608	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Then they can sit down again. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Then they can sit down again. Those who do not vote for or against the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Then we have the result. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102719	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317102739	Thank you for that, President. With regard to this bill, we in the Danish People's Party support the government's proposal to compensate for sickness benefit. There's just one problem. Because we have put some questions to the Minister, and then it may be that the Minister is saying that it is not part of this. We think it is quite fine that employers do not have to have to have the first 30 days when they have to pay sickness benefit. We also think it is quite fine that self-employed people should be spared the first 14 days that are self-paid. But one of the things we have asked about is how these new measures help small self-employed people, and then we just have to see that this legislation is only for those who are in an unemployment insurance fund and can get sickness benefit from the municipality. However, there are, in fact, very many small self-employed people who have to shut down because they have no orders and who can only receive normal cash benefits if they sell off their business, and we should have liked to have suspended that, otherwise there are a lot of people who have to sell their business, and I have mentioned this to the Minister for Employment, and I hope that there will be new initiatives in this area. We have also asked how freelancers are provided with regard to daily allowances. After all, a great many people have lost their jobs because they are closed, and not everyone has enough hours or has the opportunity to receive a daily allowance. It is therefore a question of whether they can obtain a cash benefits-like benefit during the period which is independent of a spouse's income. We have also asked that question. We have also asked whether it would be possible to suspend the rule that they are entitled to what are deducted from the duration of the period, both on sickness benefit and on ordinary cash benefits, so that they do not consume the period during the period of quarantine. We have not really received an answer to that either. We have received some answers from the Minister who is meaningless, i.e. some official answers that relate to what the rules are, but not what we actually asked, and it is a bit boring that we get such a good day man's axe-stick answer that we cannot really use for anything in this critical situation. Because there are really some who are getting into trouble and who cannot benefit from the measures that the government has taken. The measures that have come here are fine, but they do not help anyone. We had then hoped that the government would have been a little more accommodating and had given some real answers to what could then have been done, rather than just such answers that it cannot be done because the legislation is so and so. That is not what I have been asking, because we knew that legislation, but we should look at new measures that can help where the government's actions do not help. I hope then that the Minister will be prepared to be forthcoming to the Danish People's Party and that we can look at the issue I have mentioned in this connection. Because it is fine that you should not pay, but there are many, both employees and self-employed, who do not benefit from the government's actions in this regard. If someone does not have any income because they have lost their job because of the measures taken in connection with the government's Coronakantæne, and what it is that we fully support, it must be reasonable to ask whether, as I said, you can help those who do not have an unemployment insurance fund in another way, so that they can receive cash benefits, without taking into account income from a spouse or partner in this connection, and that they should not draw on the total period of both cash benefits and cash benefits. As I said, we have received no real answer to that, and I think it is a little disappointing in these times of crisis. Because it means a lot to people around them that they get some proper answers, and when we can't get any proper answers in here in the Folketing, of course citizens can't get any proper answers either. Then they stand there and don't know what happens next. Another example of this is, of course, as my President, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, has said, that some of the saved holiday money could be consumed to take holidays and to be able to allow those who would receive holiday money so that they could use it in this context. This is not something we have asked here, so I cannot ask for it to be in an answer, but it is certainly an example of where a little effort could be made. But I think that the government should take the input that comes from the parties a little more seriously, and then say: let us look at them in connection with this legislation. We know that in urgent legislation it is difficult to get amendments through. You cannot expect help from officials so quickly when it is urgent legislation. But I hope that the government will have a talk with us and ask if you can listen to other parties in Parliament who have some ideas on how to help both employees and self-employed people. That would be a step in the right direction. However, as I said, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317103336	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. And I'm gonna ask the Secretaries to get ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317103353	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Please, sit back down. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Then we have 95 votes cast. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 12.00 with the first reading of Bill No. L 140.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120003	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120016	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120027	Thank you to the President for the floor, and thank you to the Danish Parliament for coming together at very short notice and discussing another urgent legislative proposal this time in the field of children and education. This is an extremely serious situation; we all know that, and I might want to start out there where it's happening right now. Well, it's been less than a week since the Prime Minister announced that we stepped up on the very big blade in relation to very big changes in society. I actually find that a great many people at many levels have taken responsibility; from the government, the health authorities, the ministry, who have worked day and night to get this ready, to the schools where leaders, teachers, educators, institutional leaders, all the people, take responsibility for solving the situation in the best possible way in a very difficult situation. The legislation we are about to deal with today is a framework legislation which, of course, must, on the one hand, remove some of the requirements for the delivery by municipalities of care guarantees, certain meals, language stimulation or other, which would, in normal circumstances, apply, because we know that there will be things that simply cannot be met in the current situation and not in all places, and that is why the legislation is in the process of suspending some of the demands we normally make in the municipalities. On the other hand, the legislation must provide a framework for what we do now. How do we ensure that our children and young people are well cared for if they need to be taken care of? And how do we ensure that the children and young people who need education or social educational services actually get it in this situation? In relation to the element of emergency education, it can be said that when physical education in schools is suspended, what should be replaced is quite important. And there we say quite clearly that the duty to teach, the responsibility of the institutions, the responsibility of teachers to actually provide teaching, that is to say to continue teaching, is unchanged. But of course it is also important to say that, although one has the task of remaining unchanged, and even though they are currently fighting hard to establish distance learning, follow-up, get good jobs done and ensure that we get as many people as possible into this situation, we know, of course, that it is not a full substitute for the everyday life that you turn your back, if you have to say so, and that it is not the same as it would be in normal circumstances. Nevertheless, it is important that the teaching continues in the best possible way. Then there is a discussion about absenteeism and follow-up, and I would like to say that, in the case of social democratic spectacles, of course, it is clear that the rules on reporting to municipal councils, drawing on children's cheques and some other things are being suspended. However, it is important for the Social Democratic Party that teachers have a responsibility to check whether the pupils participate in the teaching and to ensure that those who are not allowed to attend the teaching do not actually hover freely. And that's why we've ordered them to have daily contact with the students. It is simply a question of saying that, in relation to those who may find it hardest to go to distance learning and who have the most difficulty in accepting teaching at home, teachers have a duty to reach out and ask: can we help you on the platform here, or is it some other thing that stands in the way of you being checked into teaching today? As far as emergency care is concerned, there are two things to keep in mind. There are some where we need their parents to go to work in the health and elderly sector and where, of course, there has to be a provision of care for those children; emergency care must be set up for them. However, there are also some places where our children and young people need to be cared for, because they are actually assessed to have to leave the parent background or home background to which they would otherwise be left, and therefore we ensure that it also continues in relation to some of the places where it is justified by the child's need to be elsewhere than at home. And it can be both in social institutions where you do not shut down, in other words in the social educational services, but it can also be in schools where you make sure that there are some pupils who also physically have a place to go during the daytime that they need. Finally, we must ensure that this does not have consequences for... Sorry, I see there's a lot going on, so I didn't know if the President had a message? President Jo, I have, but finish it.) I would just like to say that, of course, the Minister is also authorised to ensure that this does not mean that too many children and young people are prevented in their further education programmes, and that is why we will certainly see that there are some places, for example in upper secondary education, where we will have to take up something other than the well-known graduation. I think we need to come together on this and say that we must send the young people the best possible way forward, regardless of the need for solutions along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I understand that the Minister would like to speak in order to clarify something. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120614	This is what happens when things go at the pace they're doing now. The ministry has at 8:00 a.m. 9 a.m. released the bill to the Folketing in exactly the same way as we used to, but the bill in its final form did not reach the members of the committee, and what has gone wrong in this regard we are trying to clarify. I was just discussing this with a few of the rapporteurs; I think it is fair that this should be made clear, because there are substantial changes in the last version of the draft law, that is. what we are dealing with now, in relation to the penultimate version, which is the one that the committee has got in its hands. In fact, I do not think it is so crucial to have a long discussion on how, how, what kind of IT system and who should have done what. We can take that on the other hand, but we should consider how we deal with the fact that the members of the committee in the Folketing have not had the right things in their hands, although they have been publicly available. My suggestion is that because we have planned a technical review later this afternoon, we are taking the changes that are there. It is my assessment that I know about the changes that will make everyone aware of it before any second and third treatment, so that you get a full overview of what the changes are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120740	Thank you, Minister. We're in a time when we're all gonna improvise a little bit, and I kind of have two options now. I can postpone the sitting, but I could also look around the Chamber and first put on my glasses so that I can see and then say that, if necessary, there is still a good opportunity for a good debate at second reading. And perhaps I have a feeling that the first reading will continue here, and then we will have to correct the technical review and the second reading. And unless there are rapporteurs protesting violently about that conclusion, and I do not see that there is • we continue the first reading. This means that we move on to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317120838	Thank you for the floor. We are here today to fight against a global virus that we did not even know the existence of a few months ago. Day by day, hour by hour, country by country, covid-19 is spreading like a wildfire. Working health services such as: It has been laid down in Italy; borders are closed, countries are in a state of emergency. Here, too, in Denmark, the first people have died and the number of inmates is increasing. We must look after each other; we must listen to the health authorities and we must take the measures that we can. And that's exactly what this bill we are dealing with urgently today is about, namely the decommissioning of schools and day-to-day services; how we should both quickly and effectively contain, but also prevent further dissemination of covid-19. Daily offers, schools and educational institutions are now closed for the next 2 weeks. And although everyone is aware of the content of the law, which we are not entirely aware of, but we must remain so during the day. The law does not reduce the pressure that we are all experiencing at the moment: children who are insecure; children's families who currently have to take care of at least two and sometimes three full-time jobs with the care of the smallest, home education for the slightly larger, while also not neglecting their own work. Many continue to meet at work, others work from home. Fear of the future also fills: Do I have a job tomorrow? When does everyday life come back? Is my little carpenter business going bankrupt? Do our loved ones risk getting sick and dying? These are concerns that in some cases reach right down to the small ears of the family. Unfortunately, we are already seeing layoffs as a result of the virus; order books become narrower and narrower; restaurants turn the key in stripes; and the small traders as well as the families are pressed on the wallet. There are many where the income base has already disappeared over the night. We must try to keep our hands under that income base with aid packages from the state, but what has been done so far is not enough. With this bill, we are empowering the Minister to continue to charge parents who have children in day care or day care, just as we are allowing free schools, private schools, afterschools and others to continue to charge contributions. We in the Left can support the government in this case during the two-week period, but we cannot support just until 1 March next year because it is the sunset clause that is in the draft law that can really be in the position of charging for an offer that the children do not receive. What are the consequences of the temporary shutdown? Is it gonna be temporary? Does it go on for Easter, for the summer break, for the autumn vacation? If the temporary closure is to last for more than two weeks, which is the period we know now, we think it is essential that parents get their parental payments back. This money plays a major role in the family economy, especially in families in which both parents, for example, are involved. has been announced fired or where the family has a small café that is about to go bankrupt. That is why we do not believe that the authorisation can be for as long as the legislative proposal provides. Yes, it costs money, and the exact amount we need to clarify during the committee procedure. But the Danish economy is fortunately strong on top of the former government's responsible management of our country. And it is now fundamental that we all take both the necessary legislative initiatives, but that we also take the initiatives needed to keep our hands on Danish families, employees and Danish companies. The Left has already put a number of questions to the draft law, and we hope that the government will be responsive, given the seriousness of the situation. We also believe that it is important for there to be equality between private and public services. There seems to be some ambiguity in the draft law. We hope that we will be able to clarify this in committee. We also believe it is important to ensure equal conditions for children of parents employed in the public and private sectors. There are important job functions in the public sector in the hospitals, to take good care of our elderly, i.e. a wide range of functions that are vital and important to our society, but there are also job functions in the private sector that are important, also if we are to ensure that people also have a job when we are on the other side of the crisis we are facing. That is why we can be concerned when we hear that there are municipalities that have been overjudged about whether people really need emergency care. We are worried when we hear about municipalities that have rejected children, among other things. in view of the fact that these are private functions, because we believe it is important that there is no ambiguity about the interpretation of who has the right to access emergency care. We also believe that it is important to ensure that emergency education does not become a worse education. Of course, it will not be the quality teaching that you meet in daily life, but it must still be a strong and good quality education. Thanks to everyone in Denmark for taking responsibility • companies, families, children and young people, teachers and educators, schools and institutions and municipalities out there. Thank you for joining us and taking responsibility in the situation we face. We can support the bill, but we also hope that we will soon be able to return to a normal everyday life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317121402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317121413	We need to take the coronat rush seriously. Therefore, the Danish People's Party also supports urgent legislation here. It is, of course, necessary to deal with what is now under way by law because of the coronate rush. This law actually comes after things have started. I am talking here about emergency care for children who have parents who work in socially critical jobs or in the private sector, where they have not shut down because of corona, but also about emergency education for pupils in primary and secondary schools. The current crisis creates a lot of mess in which some sort of order must be created. In this situation, it is necessary to get things under control through legislation and announcements. We fully support the main ideas contained in the bill and the announcement, but we do have some small reservations. For example: parents cannot be expected to pay for care that they do not receive. It may be possible to do so in a two-week derogation, but not for one month or two months or three months. Remember, at the same time, some of the parents are at risk of being severely affected financially. So a time limit should be set. It must also be state and municipality that will carry the heavy load during this coronate period. Another thing is that the law does not have to have such a late expiry date when it comes to admission requirements, examinations and grades, which are, of course, primarily the spring semester. Why not set an expiry date on 1 September in this area? Although the crisis can come back in the autumn, we hardly get the same exams and the same spring semester problems again in the autumn semester. In addition, we in the Danish People's Party have some small things that we will ask about at the committee meeting and the consultation and which we hope to get under control during the day and before the second and third readings. But in general, the Danish People's Party supports this bill because we therefore believe that it is very important that we take the coronate rush seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317121622	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. The next is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317121633	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am here as a substitute for our child and education rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today. The aim of the bill, at least the bill that has been transmitted, is to establish a clear legal basis for the Minister of Children and Education to close day care institutions and schools and establish emergency care to contain the infection with coronavirus in Denmark. The Radical Left looks very seriously at the current situation and therefore believes that the draft law is a necessary measure that can ultimately help save lives and reduce the pressure on our health system. When schools and day care centres close, it is of course a challenge for children, young people and their families, but fortunately we have already seen that the vast majority of young children's parents have been able to find alternative care for children for the coming weeks, just as parents of schoolchildren are trying to find the hard balance between doing their job and helping children to participate in digital education from home. This shows that the Danes understand the seriousness of the current situation and take responsibility for it. However, for children of parents who perform critical functions, it is good and important that there is a qualified offer of emergency care, as authorised by the bill. In relation to schools, it is essential that the bill and the corresponding decree also establish a number of criteria and expectations for digital education. Especially in the case of older children and young people in education and in youth education, it is important to continue to receive and participate actively in qualified education. This applies particularly to those who are about to finish their training courses this summer and who are entirely dependent on them receiving the necessary training to be able to take the examinations. Fortunately, when it comes to digital education, we have also seen a large degree of social responsibility. Schools, teachers and management show great responsibility for ensuring that the teaching does not stall, although it is not possible to meet in the classroom, and instead provides qualified digital teaching to the students. Finally, there is a group of vulnerable children and young people that we must take care of in the current situation. This is true, for example. children with special needs who need to remain on offer today. This also applies to vulnerable children and young people who need extra structure and support to carry out an education and who will find it difficult to cope with the fact that they cannot go to school for a longer period in the way they usually do. It is important to take care of them, as otherwise they may be affected by their well-being or to fall completely out of the education system. That is why the Radical Left has asked which target groups and offers are intended to be covered by the derogation in the notice on closure and emergency care. Similarly, we are also concerned to hear the Minister's thoughts on how the provision in the Emergency Education Order, in other words how schools should manage pupils with special support needs by being in daily contact with them, can in practice ensure that their needs are addressed. These are many and difficult considerations which must be weighed against each other. With these words and without prejudice to the changes in what is being sent over, I would like to say that the Radical Left supports the bill and we look forward to working with the government and the other parties of the Folketing on its various aspects during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122018	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and therefore we can proceed to Anna Brændemose, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122029	First of all, a great deal of praise and gratitude to all the teachers and educators and school leaders and rectors who, despite the difficult circumstances, continue to teach our children and young people. You're making a huge difference. These days, necessary far-reaching changes are being made in a number of areas, including children's and education. In the SF, we are confident that the Minister will only apply the temporary measures if necessary. First of all, it is important for the municipalities to be obliged to provide emergency care for the 0-9-year-old children whose parents perform social-critical functions. We need the children's parents in our hospitals, in the police, and in many other places. That is why, of course, we must also ensure that their children can be cared for. At the same time, it is important that emergency care also applies to children whose parents are employed in private companies that have not returned their employees and that it applies to children and young people who have special social, educational and treatment needs, including on the grounds of home circumstances. To thrive, children need a secure environment. That is why it is good that the notice states that emergency care must be provided as far as possible in a accustomed framework and that it also supports the well-being and security of children and young people. In several parts of the bill, it is clear that the greatest possible consideration must be given to the fact that such measures do not give pupils, students or participants less favourable conditions than they would have had in the general course. I think that is a good guide. At the same time, I am pleased to see that the bill and the announcement focus on those children who are professionally and socially vulnerable and who need additional support in school on a daily basis. They still need support in this situation. It is therefore a good thing that the notice states that schools must organise emergency education according to the needs of the individual to the extent practicable. In addition, I would like to emphasise that it is good to see that no unnecessary bureaucracy and rules are envisaged into the legislation, for example that the public schools are not forced to report pupils' absence from emergency education to the municipal council. At the same time, it is important that it is written that the grants of schools and institutions are not affected, but that financial support can be given if needed. Then there are all the students who are going to the exam. I know that many of them are out there now thinking: what is going to happen to us? We need to be careful about them. If there are changes in the exam, e.g. changes in the number of tests, postponement or cancellation, it will affect a great many students. The same is true if the Minister changes the conditions for having legal requirements for admission, entitlement to admission tests and qualification assessment. I hope that in all cases the Minister will stand on the side of the pupils and ensure that changes are to their advantage as far as possible. That is also how I read the remarks. For SF, it's crucial that the students and the students' future aren't caught up because of this situation. The comments on the draft law emphasise that there must be no increase in user charges, for example. As a result of distance learning. It's important. Thus, if schools are to carry out distance learning, they must ensure that digital equipment is made available to pupils and parents who do not have the necessary equipment. Parents or pupils may not be required to acquire emergency training equipment for themselves, other than that which may be required of ordinary education. The same applies to upper secondary education and vocational training, where the limit of DKK 2,500 is fixed. continue to apply. I hope that, if possible, the Minister will involve the various professional groups, organisations and parties in the fields in order to supplement or to derogate from the provisions of the legislation. Where this is not possible, they should be subsequently withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122425	Thank you. After all, the proposal here bears witness to the enormous challenges facing our day-to-day services and the whole education sector as a result of the rapidly growing coronasmitte danger. The closing of day-to-day services and educational institutions poses major problems for children and young people and their families here and now and can do so for a period of time that we do not yet know the length of. In the education sector in particular, it would appear that this will also have very major consequences after the normalization of daily education in educational establishments. The proposal before us suggests that the Danish Parliament gives extensive powers to the Minister for Children and Education in a wide range of areas, ranging from the very current rules on emergency education to the subsequent handling of, among other things: exams, exams and admissions to youth education. At the same time, temporary rules are laid down for the regulation of large parts of the educational institutions' economy. It is incredibly important that, in the extremely difficult situation we find ourselves in, we find solutions that now provide as good a framework as possible for the hundreds of thousands of children and young people's everyday lives and for the employees who have to carry out the task of maintaining the best possible education. I think we are in complete agreement here to say a great deal of thanks to the many employees and managers who are now in the process of ensuring that the necessary day-to-day offers are available and in the process of undertaking the comprehensive task of keeping our entire education system going. These are extremely difficult tasks that need to be solved and, in laying down the temporary rules, we must ensure the best possible conditions for both children and young people and employees to make everyday life work under exceptional conditions. At the same time, I believe that it is very important and several rapporteurs have already mentioned that we are doing everything we can to create the greatest possible security for the many pupils who may be concerned about what the current crisis might mean for their educational opportunities. This applies not only here and now to the absence of daily ordinary education, but also to the forthcoming examinations, examinations and, above all, admission to youth education. It is incredibly important that both the pupils and their parents experience that the problems are being addressed and that there will still be an opportunity also to receive the necessary special support for those pupils and children who have a special need, although I think we should stress that, in the circumstances, it can be difficult, if not impossible, to provide teaching at exactly the level experienced every day. Nevertheless, I think it is incredibly important that we keep the children and young people informed that the corona crisis will not hinder their further education prospects. We must also ensure that the current crisis does not undermine the economy of the institutions and educational establishments. We therefore agree with the series of economic measures contained in the draft law. It is important for the Enhedslisten that the additional costs resulting from the current crisis are covered by additional funds so that, overall, this does not mean a deterioration in the economy of the educational institutions when the situation is restored. Together, we must monitor developments very closely, and the Enhedslisten will be prepared to add additional economy to the area to the extent that it proves necessary. With those comments, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317122837	Thank you, President. The situation around the corona epidemic is deeply serious, both in Denmark and in the rest of the world. Everywhere in Europe, borders are being shut down, thousands of employees have been sent home, schools and day care centres have been closed, and our social life is very limited. These are drastic and violent interventions that I never thought I would be involved in as a parliamentarian. But it is a very special and extraordinary situation, and it also calls for exceptional decisions to be taken, but it is of course also important that common sense is maintained along the way and the right measures taken. As a result of the temporary closure of daily offers and schools, the government has put forward a draft law giving the Minister a wide range of powers to derogate from day-to-day and educational rules and to take a number of interim measures. We don't have the final bill right now, but it's going to happen to us during the day. As a starting point, we have a full understanding of the work that is now incumbent upon us, and we also take responsibility for ourselves as Conservatives. But we must also say clearly that these are very, very far-reaching powers for the Minister, and that must never be taken lightly. We must do what we can to ensure that children's learning is guaranteed as much as possible by distance learning, and if it is not sufficient for some pupils, including vulnerable pupils, it is important that there is provision for replacement education. And there may also be a situation in which special rules and arrangements must be introduced in relation to the holding of tests and the presentation of characters. In the area of day-to-day provision, it will be absolutely crucial to maintain emergency care in relation to the many parents who will continue to care for their ordinary work in the public sector. This is among other things. doctors, nurses and porters in the country's hospitals, who are currently on the front line in the fight against the corona epidemic, and of course emergency care must also be provided in relation to the many parents who must continue to keep up with the private sector and, of course, children with special needs. There we have noted that there is, as it were, a differentiation between the three groups, and I hope there is really only one way to go in and give priority to all three, so that all three groups are judged to be equally important. For Conservatives, it is also an independent point that private offers with such a change of law are not put at a disadvantage here than public ones. And then we are very much looking forward to the technical examination and examination of the legislative proposal by the committee and, of course, we also have a great understanding that it is a legislative proposal which has been written relatively quickly and that not all the formalities are usually there either. There are, of course, a number of questions that we need to clarify. I sent 33 questions last night and I think that more will come during the day. Then I really hope that the government will listen very strongly to teachers, educators and school leaders in the sector, because they are the ones closest to the major challenges that need to be tackled right now as a result of the closures. And although I understand that the government wants to be able to derogate from the general rules, it is also very far-reaching powers that the Minister is asking for, and in a time of crisis there is a serious need for democracy and parliamentary control, which is why I also hope that the Minister will already accept that the decrees that the Minister is authorised to issue should be approved by the conciliation circle behind the primary school. In concrete terms, I have also called on the Minister to set up a follow-up group of rapporteurs, which will thus come into line with the very far-reaching decisions that will potentially have to be taken in the coming days, weeks and perhaps even months, because this will help to ensure more democratic legitimacy behind the choices to be made. So basically, we support a bill in this very extraordinary situation. We have a number of concerns and we have asked a number of questions. And we fully agree that both the Minister and the Central Administration have to deal with some very, very major challenges in a very short time, and we would like to participate in this work very constructively so that we can find the best solutions for children and families across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317123253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317123315	Thank you. It's a strange time we're living in these days. Children are sent home from crèche, kindergarten and school, and many parents work at home. The streets are more or less deserted, and the first Danes have unfortunately died from the corona virus... many thoughts and condolences to their relatives. Many are infected, some are hospitalized, and I understand that many Danes are worried. Do you get hit yourself or someone else's nearest to you? You keep your job? When are schools and daycare institutions going to open again? The questions are many and, in many cases, unanswerable at this stage. It is important that we take care of ourselves and of each other. We're gonna help each other. It is in a situation like this that we as a society must prove our worth. The health service can come under severe pressure and the economy can come to a halt. Yet I recognize our lovely country at this time. The Danes show a closeness I haven't seen in a long time. Our community of values is a test, and I think we stand. Today we are discussing the bill that makes measures in the field of children's and education to prevent and remedy the corona virus • major, but fortunately temporary, changes. We owe a great deal of thanks to the teachers, who in many cases are in charge of distance learning. We owe a great deal of thanks to the educators who are in charge of emergency care in the various institutions. We owe a great deal of thanks to the police, doctors, nurses, home helpers and other staff in critical functions. Parents help each other crosswise for the benefit of their children. I think that all of us with children can nod to recognize that this is a time when you fight to get the ends to meet. Good ideas are exchanged crosswise. What can you do with your children during this difficult time, and what can the children do? The Danes can do much themselves, and it is pleasing. We should remember to tell each other that we will get through this time. We come out stronger on the other side, because we will learn a lot. In Denmark we have been a free people for many, many years, and that is why we can do a great deal when we show national unity. Across party political views, we stand together when it comes to matters. It's about our common destiny on this little spot on Earth that's ours. It is at a time like this that we Danes can benefit from the civil solidarity that binds us together as people. We need to take care of each other. We're gonna help each other. That is why New Citizens also support this bill. Moreover, I look forward to the forthcoming negotiations, in which New Citizens, among others. will work for the sunset clause to be moved, because this legislation only needs to be used very briefly, and we must ensure that as a society we keep our hands on the families that are already hit hard economically by the corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317123656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317123707	Thank you. We support Bill No. 140, and we do, because we are looking at Bill No. 140. 133, which we adopted on Thursday, and Bill No. 144 as a kind of connected vessel. There are several rapporteurs who have given their views on the overall situation, so I will also use my speaking time to do so. The overall aim of government policy, which the Folketing also supports, is to prevent the collapse of the Danish healthcare system. If the health care system collapses, we are in a completely incalculable situation. It will happen that the mortality rate of covid-19 will move from lying in the range between 0.3 and 1.0 to moving up the range between 3.0 and 5.0%. Then the risk of complications or death associated with a wide range of other disorders and conditions will also increase due to capacity problems, and then the treatment of non-life-threatening diseases and prevention and rehabilitation will be weakened. You can't look at shutting down the child-young area without putting it into this exact context. It's something we do to get the so-called R0 down. R0 is the number of reproductions. That's the number of people that one covid-19 patient infects. It is probably 2.6, and it must be much, much lower if health care is not to collapse. That's why we adopted Bill No. 133. If you look at the Danish Health Authority's analyses, the first wave of covid-19 will end sometime at the end of May, then there will be an intermediate period • still away according to the Danish Health Authority • and in September there will be another wave that lasts the year or perhaps slightly into 2021. By then, about half the population will have been infected. Therefore, we do not have any problems with a sunset clause until 1 March 2021. It is factually and meaningfully in relation to the analyses that motivated us to adopt Bill No. 133. I think, frankly, that we are talking about all this urgent legislation as if it were politics, and I think we are talking about it as if it were something that has been in the government's legislative catalogue and as if it is something that the government has gone to the polls on. After all, nobody became politicians in the late 1930s because they had had very strong desires from youth to work with rationing marks and curfews. It was just something they had to do. After all, none of us have become politicians because we have a dream of introducing something similar to a state of emergency. But now we are here to save our health care and hence public health. It is a task that has been imposed on us. No one has asked for that task, I did not hear anyone say anything about it in the election campaign a year ago, and that is, of course, our starting point for how we go about all this. We have a perfectly natural expectation that all emergency legislation will be designed in such a way that citizens and groups in society will bear the burdens that absolutely no one has asked for in solidarity. Anything else would be quite unreasonable, but I hear the other rapporteurs say so too, so I suppose we are going to achieve it. We also have a desire for emergency legislation to operate smoothly and fairly and in accordance with common sense, but I really think I can hear the rest of the rapporteurs say that, so I think we will get through there too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317124119	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not think there are any more parties or members of parliament who wish to speak. That is why it is now the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317124137	Thank you. First of all, we have just clarified that this is the right proposal to be considered. It has been sent over in the way customary is, but there is usually an overview received by the committee of what is the change from the legislation put forward, and that is the piece of paper that has not been sent out to committee. We will also be able to clarify this further in the technical treatment, but that is just to return to what we mentioned earlier. But to that extent, formalities should be in place. It doesn't change the fact that, especially in these times, we have to be extremely careful that we also make sure that everyone gets the opportunity to read, understand and ask questions about it because we don't have the long periods we normally have. I would like to begin by saying that Denmark, because of the spread of covid-19, is in an extraordinary situation. We must look after each other, but we must also, in particular, look after those who have challenges. This requires a great deal of each Dane, and it requires a great deal of society in general. We must stand together and we must act quickly and we must act consistently. That is why I would like to start by thanking the parties of the Folketing for their support for the urgency of the proposal we are debating here. Thank you. Then I want to say very clearly that we do not have Of course it is the case that the teaching is better and that the learning is greater when the teachers have the students sitting in the classroom in front of them and, moreover, carry out the teaching on the basis of their experience of how the teaching works best, and what is happening now is quite different from what usually happens. That is why quality will not necessarily be as good, and we parents can do only what we parents can do. For the most part, we are not trained teachers, and many of us, while helping children to understand teachers' instructions, must do our job from home. These are rather difficult conditions for having to perform a function for which we have not been trained in normal circumstances either, and in addition to this, a great many of us find it difficult to remember what it was like to bend French or German verbs, and perhaps we have also forgotten a little from the teaching of physics. In any case, I can say that has already given me difficulties. Especially with regard to the French verbs, I got off, and others again have more difficulty than that, namely that they can suffer dyslexia, and that simply means having difficulty reading and decoding the messages given by teachers. Teachers and parents are doing the best we can, with all the different conditions we have, to ensure that the gaps that arise in our children's and young people's education are not too great, but we also need to be realistic. We will not get through a global pandemic without gaps in learning, and no, we cannot mitigate learning social heritage to the same extent when the children are at home as when they are at school. We must have a look at this, and we, as a government, are trying to give us a look at this, both with the legislative proposal and with the announcements that are coming, so that we take into account the fact that the social heritage is likely to be far more successful in the process of decommissioning schools than it is in normal circumstances. I think that when we get on the other side of the shutdown, the carpenter's children will be something better at craftsmanship and design than my children will be. My kids would have better track of history and social science than children whose parents don't deal with it every day. My children, on the other hand, will be lost in the German verbs, and in this way social inheritance will simply pass through. There are some parents who do not speak Danish, and there are some parents who are having a really hard time with many of the subjects, and to that there is simply to say that the teachers with the rules we will be implementing in the coming period must, of course, pay particular attention. I hear that from out there they are already, but they must pay particular attention to those children who do not have the help they need from home. In the government, we will spend a great deal of energy and energy helping to make the holes as few as possible and as small as possible. But there might be bumps on the road. I stayed, for example. asked yesterday on TV if I was surprised that there were parts of our IT that were running a little slowly. I just had to say: No, I wasn't surprised at that at all. In addition to just amen in the church, it is when incredibly many children go from having to be taught in a classroom to having to be taught online, probably the most expected, that then there will be difficulties with IT. So of course we have been aware of that would happen, it goes without saying. But what we have not been aware of is where the difficulties are going to arise and how to solve them. Because how on earth would you be aware of that, since we've never done it before? I have never been aware that in Danish history it should have happened, that one million children and young people are taken in round figures from classroom teaching and put them into online teaching, and thus we have no background for having to make a suggestion as to how we do it best. Everybody's doing the best they can. A certain body part is being worked out of the pants at all ends and edges of our system to solve the problems. I would say that if the system sometimes runs slow, then instead as a parent to panic that it cannot be done just to get the last messages, then behind some pancakes, go for a walk, do something else. And in reality, as a society, we must look each other in the eye and say that quality is going to be different, good! That being said, it is infinitely important. A number of people have asked whether the ambitions in terms of home education are too high. And for that, I just want to say, no! There is no time when we as a child need structure more than at a time when structures are falling apart. What is happening right now is that the structures are falling apart. I've heard a child say over the last few days that his highest wish had actually been for many years that the school would just close. And now that that had happened, he actually already thought it was relatively boring that the school is closed. That is how I think there are many children who will experience the period we are going through now, and that is why I believe that having relatively high expectations of home education is important. That is what gives structure in everyday life, and the harder it is that there is no structure, the more important it is that we create structure. Does this mean that there is an expectation that one as a teacher should be able to deliver what is normal? No, it doesn't! I've heard schools make decisions about teaching one, two, three, four, five subjects, all other classes are dropped. It's one model. I think that sounds wise, because there are some things that are better suited to online education than anything else. And there will be a period in which one teaches in a different way than usual and where the quality will be different. But it is so infinitely important for the children and for our ability to get through this period that there is distance learning and that there is emergency education and that we are doing as well as we can to get hold of all the children. All the Danish Parliament, the government, all the Danes have a responsibility to do everything we possibly can to reduce the consequences, and this, of course, applies to the education sector. This applies to day-to-day services, to schools, to educational institutions which are temporarily closed. The employees have been sent home to a large extent and the related activities cannot be carried out in the normal way. That is, by its very nature, serious. It is both in relation to good children's life, although they may at first think it is very funny, but it is quickly over again, and it is in relation to good education, which is one of the biggest assets our society has. The draft law I have tabled is unusual. This is not something we are used to in a democratic society such as the Danish one, in other words giving as much authority to government and ministers as we are asking for with this bill. However, we need to ensure that we can act quickly and that we can act flexibly to deal with the many practical measures that will be or may be necessary in the future. And quickly and flexibly is essential for us to help the education sector make a difficult time a little easier. That's what the bill is about, that is to say, we're handshaking each other that we're helping Education Denmark and Children's Denmark as best we can through this situation. That is why, of course, I am very pleased that the parliamentary parties are so positive about the proposals that we are discussing here today, and that, of course, also places a huge responsibility on the government when there are such far-reaching proposals as this one. On the one hand, the government wants to close schools and institutions for the sake of our health and it overshadows everything else right now, and on the other hand, of course, we want to do so in a way that we mitigate, as far as possible, the effects of closures for children and for young people and for pupils, students, participants in day-to-day services, schools, educational institutions. Children and young people and adults should not, as far as possible, be delayed in their further education, which is really important. Together with the education sector, we have to fulfil that task, and with the bill we are taking the initiative to create the framework for it. By its very nature, this will take place in a balance between the consideration of those directly concerned and the need to mitigate the negative economic and employment consequences for the economy, as well as for the municipalities, institutions and citizens. Overall, it is important to emphasise that this is a framework law. The aim is therefore to create the framework for ensuring that the whole education sector does not stop during the crisis, but also that we can quickly take the necessary decisions which we cannot just see when we stand here today. Special attention will be paid to vulnerable children and young people, including children and young people with special needs. We are only implementing the absolutely necessary changes in their educational conditions so that their social conditions are least affected by the current situation. The daily offers are closed. It may require a different set of rules and frameworks than open day offers. And when they open again, there may be a need for a transitional phase, and that may also require other rules. The Government therefore proposes that rules may be laid down which derogate from the provisions of the Daily Offers Act. In order to prevent the temporary closure of daily offers from having far too serious economic consequences for the municipalities, offers must continue to be paid. It's just a temporary closure, and we should be lifting in packs. No one can stand outside and say Covid-19 doesn't concern me. This cannot be done in the present situation. The Government proposes that as long as pupils and students or participants cannot receive the ordinary education, the schools and institutions should, to the greatest extent possible, ensure appropriate education through streaming, homework or the like, and they should do as well as they can. In addition, we propose an authorisation to derogate from and supplement the legislation so that we can make the necessary adjustments so that the closure offers can either be continued in an adapted form or that some form of payment of grants and benefits can be ensured. These are drastic measures, which is why the government proposes that the law be automatically repealed on 1 March 2021. This corresponds to the end of the epidemic law. And there is also a built-in opportunity to organise sensible and flexible transitional arrangements when, hopefully, we do not return to normal life for too long. Due to the speed of the legislative proposal, the government is proposing that the bill be confirmed immediately after its adoption and that the law enters into force today after the announcement in the Official Journal, so that we can help daily services and schools and educational institutions as quickly as possible to do what they are so incredibly good at: giving children and young people and adults a safe upbringing and a good education. Then I would like to comment a little on some of the questions that were under way. Left and, incidentally, a few of the other parties mention this here with the emergency care in relation to private companies. Once again, this is very clear in the announcement, and I would urge all those involved in emergency care to go in and read it. Of course, the municipalities have just ironed out there, and thank you so much for this otherwise this couldn't be done at all. And so in some places there will be little uncertainty about how and how it should be done, with the first communications that have come out. It is the case that you can get emergency care when you work in a private company that is not shut down because there are plenty of private companies that are not and that means you have to uncover the opportunities that exist to get others to look after your children. It is best if children stay at home, but to the extent that they are at work and do not have other care options, they have access to emergency care. This means that it is not a question of whether or not you have a critical function in the private sector. It's actually just a question that if you work in a private company and we need to keep the production going... who haven't sent the employees home, the employees naturally need their children to be cared for while they're at work. You may not have friends who can, and the grandparents can't now either. A lot of people want to resort to grandparents, but this is really a bad idea, because grandparents are typically at risk. That means they're friends, they're neighbors, and they're others. You have to stop gathering too many people, because otherwise we're in the same place. And if you don't, you have to send your kids into emergency care. It was the same question raised by the Danish People's Party. In relation to this issue of the expiry date for legislation, I would like to say that it follows the legislation on epidemics. The Danish People's Party also raised that question. Of course, it's completely relevant to see how long this is going to take. It can be said that with this legislation we have simply chosen to follow the legislation adopted in the Folketing on Thursday because we thought it was the most obvious. There may then be a need for us to get over some transitional arrangements, simply because we have students going to the exam. This means that we are at risk of being in a situation where it may well be that we return to everyday life, but if we do so and it is just to give us a thought example of 3 days before any given written exam, which would normally have to run off the table, then it is of no use. This means that there may be some transitions in which we need to take that into account. But the starting point is, of course, that the best thing is if we make legislation as usual in Danish society. That is why emergency laws must last as little time as possible, and we have chosen to follow the epidemic legislation here. The Radical Left says that it is important to take care of those who have difficulty in teaching and finding the right help at home, and it may also be children who are at risk, it is after all like two different groups. I couldn't agree more. We know from every type of disaster that those who suffer most are the most difficult at home. We'll get back to the exam thing. We will have plenty of time to discuss this in the technical review too, and we will also come back to the issues of special support for those with special needs, as the Enhedslisten also says. In conclusion, thousands of decisions have been taken out there in recent days and each of them has been important. Each of us has used common sense. I simply bow to the dust of how fantastic it has been that each one has said: this must be my responsibility; and I wonder if all those responsible for something else have taken it upon themselves, otherwise I will gladly report to an additional task. If we go on like this, we're gonna get through this crisis as well as possible. So thank you so much for the effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125749	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125757	It's just to give praise to the Minister. Because it's just so nice to hear such a very cash expectation vote. Of course, the quality is not the same now when teaching at home, compared to when it takes place in the classroom. It's just an example of how we're talking about unknown territory, and we're gonna have to make policy with handheld camera day by day and find out what the hell we're learning from this. So I just wanted to say thank you; that was nice to hear. And then to you colleagues: It's a little special to stand here as a non-attached member, and perhaps it's just important for the minister to know that these four new non-attached Members are completely behind the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125841	Thank you for your support. I would say that one of the main reasons why our society is so strong is that one becomes incredibly aware of this in these days... is the anchoring of politics in every single hair vessel of Danish society. In other words, some of what happens when we make emergency legislation is that a great deal of what we usually put into formal consultation processes is actually done by telephone. In other words, the constant contact with the heads of schools, with teachers, with educators, with the associations of the Fgu institutions, etc. etc. is carried out between ministries and then those who are usually consultative parties to the various legislative proposals. So part of the condensation of knowledge and attitudes and the question of how we do this best is still going away. That means that this involvement, of course, has its roots in a society that always does so, and we are trying to continue with it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125933	I do not see that there are any more questions, and that is why we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200317125956	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 19 March 2020 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
