ParlaMint-DK_20201127100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Hasteforsøg nr. F 25 (Will the Minister explain how the Minister will ensure rapid treatment and adoption of a new epidemic law based on popular rule, legal certainty and transparency?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has been appointed a member of the Labour Council instead of a member of the Folketing. Flemming Møller Mortensen for the remainder of the current term of office. The person concerned is then elected. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the National Bank of Denmark, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen as a member for the remainder of the current term of office instead of a member of the Folketing, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100111	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's Mrs. Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100132	Thank you for the floor. The Web Accessibility Act entered into force in September 2018 and implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 2016 on the availability of websites and mobile applications of public bodies. Public websites must be accessible to all regardless of disability or disability, and the overall purpose of the Web Accessibility Act is to make it easier for people with disabilities to use public bodies' websites and mobile applications by requiring public bodies' websites and mobile applications to be accessible. However, the law does not clearly state who is responsible for ensuring that the content complies with the law's accessibility requirements when a public programme publishes or delivers content to another public programme, the body's website or to a common public web portal. This has led to uncertainty in a number of cases, and this amendment of the law will do away with that. Specifically, this is done by adjusting the importance of third party content. The change will mean that content on a public body's website or mobile application provided by another public body is not to be considered as third-party content. In doing so, the public body that publishes or delivers the content will be responsible for the content meeting the requirements of the Web Accessibility Act, just as the public body that has the website where the content is displayed is responsible for the accessibility of the website. It is crucial that people with, for example, people with... visual impairment cannot just be accessed, for example. digital mail, but can also read the digital mail with the specific mail messages. In the end, this bill will allow citizens to take advantage of the digital opportunities offered by the public sector. Social democracy can agree to the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100339	Thank you. The Danish web accessibility law is important in ensuring as a society that as many citizens as possible can use public bodies' websites and mobile applications, including, of course, people with disabilities. This is important because the websites and mobile applications of public bodies are an indispensable part of the everyday lives of many citizens. With this bill, we specify who is responsible for complying with the law's accessibility requirements when a public body publishes or delivers content to another public body's website or to a common web portal. This will ensure that there is no doubt in the future about where the responsibility lies. Some questions have been raised in the hearings from the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions in relation to the costs. This is something we will try to ask a little about in committee, but overall we think it is a very fine legislative proposal. Denmark is a digital pioneer country, where a great deal of public communication is now online, and that is why we must of course also get it under control and take the lead in ensuring that this content is available. We look forward to the work of the committee and we agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100451	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100500	Thank you. Naivt really thought this was solved. I thought that all public authorities focused on ensuring that, of course, there was access for citizens with disabilities. Naivt thought that our healthcare system ensured that when calls were sent out to hospitals, they were available to all citizens. That is why I have to admit that when I saw this bill, I first thought that it should of course be put in place, but that the problem was not so great. Then I really got worried when I read the consultation answers, because both KL and the regions say that it is going to be expensive here, that there is a lot of costs to ensure, as it says, that all citizens can serve on public websites and apps on equal terms regardless of disability and disability. It is difficult to identify who is responsible when some make an app and others deliver the content. Is it the person responsible for the app to ensure that the technical solution is in order so that the content can be displayed, or is it the supplier of the content who has to ensure it? Come on! We are talking about different public authorities. If we cannot afford to have an expectation that when we say that the result should be that all citizens, regardless of disability and disability, should be able to serve these apps and websites, then these taxpayers-paid public authorities will have to talk, and then they will have to figure out how to do the job. They should not try to renounce responsibility, they should assume responsibility for finding the best solutions. Surely we should be able to expect that attitude for our tax money. But if this change of law can make it clearer and make it easier for them out there to find out who has to take responsibility, then it's really good, and then it's just getting started. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten and say that the Enhedslisten also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100643	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100653	Thank you for the floor. The proposal here clarifies, as has already been said, who is responsible for the fact that all content on public websites and applications is available to anyone who needs to use these excellent services. Of course, it's positive that this responsibility has now been placed. It must of course be the case that you can access the information you need. Accessibility does not come by itself. This requires good people in the municipalities and regions to ensure that it is in place. This kind of thing takes time, and it also often costs money. That is why it is good that the proposal provides for municipalities and regions to have a little more time than was initially planned, and it is also good that a dialogue is now being held on how we look at the costs in this context. There is a balance in the proposal. We can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100747	Thank you for the floor and thank the Minister for Finance for presenting this proposal. It is good that the Minister has listened to the representations that have been made that certain websites do not meet the requirement of accessibility. This may surprise one, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentions. Other rapporteurs have already explained the draft law, which is basically about clarifying that public authorities that provide information on websites and other platforms from other public authorities must also ensure that this complies with the accessibility rules. When the Internet's father, Tim Berners-Lee, invented 30 years ago the indispensable tool that the Internet has become, it was with the vision that the Internet should be free of all, and that is the vision that this bill leans on sensibly. It is important that everyone, including people with disabilities, should have access to the most important invention of our time, not least when it comes to the availability of important information from public authorities. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100848	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, nor do I see any rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, nor do I see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. This means that the Minister for Finance is hereby invited to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127100907	It was good that the President saw the Minister. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs who have spoken for the receipt of the draft law, and I would also like to thank you for the good and very clever speeches I have made here today. I am pleased to hear that there is support for ensuring accessibility on websites and apps in the public sector. It is absolutely essential that all citizens have the opportunity to serve the digital services of the public sector and that citizens, with disabilities, can participate in society on an equal footing with others. Public websites must be accessible to all regardless of any disability and whether or not you as a human being have a disability. On 23 September 2020, the Web Accessibility Act came into force for all public websites. In doing so, we took an important step towards greater accessibility in the public sector. However, we have learned, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, that in the implementation of the law, doubts have arisen as to which authority is responsible for ensuring accessibility when the content is delivered from one authority to another. There I would like to say that I very much agree with the comments made by Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who said that it must simply be possible to find out within the public sector and that as a citizen one must have an expectation that it will be put in place. That's what this bill is all about. With the proposed amendment to the Web Accessibility Act, we make it quite clear that all web content produced by a public authority must be made available wherever citizens access it. And we make it clear that it is the public authority that produces the content that is responsible for making it available. This also applies where the content is technically and practically published by another authority. With the amendment of the law, we ensure, among other things, that citizens can read their digital mail from the public sector with reduced functionality. The amendment of the law means that the letters in the digital mailbox must also be covered by the Accessibility Act so that they are available and that all public self-service solutions must be available regardless of whether they are accessed on citizen.dk or not. In other words, we strengthen and clarify the law on web accessibility so that there can no longer be any doubt as to who is responsible for making the web content available. This is for the benefit of our citizens. That's what I'm talking about. Ultimately, this means that more citizens can take advantage of the digital opportunities offered by the public sector. I think that many good questions have been raised in the debate, and there have also been points to be addressed in committee. I look forward to that, of course. However, for the time being, thank you for the very positive reception and for our approach, namely that this is about public authorities having to find a way to talk. They're the ones who have to deal with it. It is not the citizen who has to get caught if it cannot be done sensibly. And with this, we're gonna make it very clear who's responsible for what. This should be of benefit to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101221	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief remarks to the Minister, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. In conclusion, I note that this has been a very, very quick and effective legislative process, as all the rapporteurs have made brief and precise speeches. This led to the arrival of a single rapporteur when the Minister was on the platform. So just on the record: New citizens also support the bill, as I understood from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101308	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101315	Thank you for that, President. We must ensure that Denmark's digitalisation projects must of course also be able to be used in Greenland and thus ensure the continued digitalisation across the kingdom community. As the situation is now, the old law on public payments regulates only public payments from the Danish authorities, including the possibility for private payers to use the easy-to-account system. The Greenlandic authorities wish to be able to pay public services to citizens and companies in Greenland in the same way that Danish authorities can use the easy-to-account system. That is the background to L 108 that we are discussing here today. The e-account system introduced in 2008 allows a public authority to send payments to a citizen or business via the easy account system without knowing the recipient's account number, the account number being retrieved from the register. Where payments are made via an easy account system, the payees shall be identified by personal numbers and, in the case of undertakings, by CVR, SE or P numbers. There is therefore a need to transfer staff information via such a system to and from Greenland in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation, and this will only be possible once a legally binding instrument has been drawn up, which is expected to take place prior to the proposed entry into force of this law. In relation to financial consequences, the bill is expected to be linked to a one-off cost of approx. 0.75 million kr. for Greenlandic self-government and an annual cost of approx. 110,000 kroner. for the Digitalisation Board in 2022. With this access to the easy-to-account system, it is expected that the Greenlandic authorities will have less expenditure with payments for public services to their own citizens. With L 108, we want the Danish Digitalisation Authority to be able to equate Greenlandic and Danish authorities in connection with connection to the easy account system. The amendment of the law does not concern the substantive rules which Greenland's autonomy lays down in its own law on public payments. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I must also say from both the SF and the Enhedslisten that they also support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101531	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101539	Thank you. We live in a digitalised world, and it also brings with it a lot of benefits. Easy Account has been a success in Denmark, which has made life easier for a lot of people, so we think it is positive that we are now taking steps to give Greenland the same opportunities that we have had in Denmark. We are generally a party that is positive in terms of digitalisation, and we would really like to work further and constructively to ensure that, across the Kingdom community, we get all the same opportunities as we get in Denmark as quickly as possible with the benefits it brings. So we can fully back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101626	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101631	Thank you for that, President. This has been well examined by the Social Democrat rapporteur here, so I am not going to drag it out too much, but I think it's nice that with this bill we can give our Greenlandic friends the opportunity to get easier processing and to get a little more digitalized so that they get an easy account system. I also understood that it was a wish from Greenland that they got the system, but if I am wrong, it will probably be corrected here in a moment. But of course the Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101711	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see any rapporteur from the Radical Left, and since there was a greeting from the Socialist rapporteur from both the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have come to the Conservative People's Party, but I do not see any rapporteur from there either, nor do I see the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party or from the Liberal Alliance. There may be some messages of greetings and expressions from some of those parties. Christoffer Aagaard Melson Yes, I promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they will vote in favour). There's a message from the Conservative People's Party that they support the bill. Thank you for that. We wait and see what the Liberal Alliance says, and it will probably be during the committee procedure. Thus, legal proceedings can also proceed very quickly, but a rapporteur is ready and I am pleased to welcome Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127101816	Thank you very much. We would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward the proposal for the amendment of the law. It is important for IA that Greenlandic citizens are treated in the same way as our fellow citizens in Denmark, and to work for an equal partnership between our countries. In general, we are very positive about increased digitisation in Greenlandic society. This is an important part of the development of our society. So thank you very much to the Minister. We, together with the Minister, welcome the bill. We do, however, have a few conditions with which we would like to familiarize the rest of the Folketing. For the vast majority of citizens in Greenland, easy account is a huge relief. IA would like to remind you that access to the Internet is not as cheap as in Denmark or as widespread everywhere, among other things. the network in North and East Greenland is not as fast as in the rest of the Kingdom community. In addition, there may also be a need to take account of elderly people, people with disabilities, homeless people and other vulnerable groups who, for various reasons, do not want or cannot use easy accounts, thus ensuring that a good solution is found here. We can then also see in the bill that Naala Suisut is given the authority to lay down rules for these groups. However, we also believe that there may still be a need for specific action aimed at the elderly. IA has been fighting for a renewed personal data law in Greenland for many, many years, so Greenland is no longer an uncertain third country compared to personal data. We do not believe that it is worthy in a modern kingdom community that we will not get this part right, and therefore IA will also encourage the government to renew the personal data legislation for Greenland, so that we get to the level of the Danish standard and in the longer term will not be an unsafe third country. Finally, we would also like to note in the second context that the need for increased digitisation also applies to the state institutions in Greenland, where many lag behind their Danish partners. With the few comments we would like to thank for the amendment of the law and look forward to its entry into force on 1 February 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127102040	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. I do not see the second North Atlantic mandate from Greenland, Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, in the Chamber, and before I give the floor to the Minister for Finance, I would just like to make sure that there are no rapporteurs sitting in the Chamber with a rapporteur's speech. That does not seem to be the case. The Minister of Finance does that in return. Welcome to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127102102	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their very positive reception of the draft law. I am pleased that there is strong support for spreading the easy-to-account system across the Kingdom community so that Greenlandic authorities can make use of it for the benefit of Greenlandic citizens in the future. The e-account system is a good example of how digitisation can contribute to the development and efficiency of the public sector, and since the system was introduced at home in 2003, it has facilitated the administration of public authorities and reduced much trouble for both companies and citizens, because they no longer need to disclose their account number to several authorities. With the bill we are discussing today, the government wants to ensure that Greenlandic citizens and authorities also have the opportunity to use the easy-to-account system. In other words, we will allow the Danish Digitalisation Authority to connect Greenlandic authorities to the easy account system on an equal footing with Danish authorities, so that citizens in Greenland can in future receive their funds directly to the easy account they have chosen. The spread of the easy-to-account system also helps to ensure the processing of the personal data of Greenlandic citizens. In future, the Greenlandic authorities will be able to pay directly to citizens using their social security number instead of manually using an account number. However, the amendment we are proposing here does not mean that the law on public payments will now also include Greenland. What we do with the amendment of the law is to provide only the necessary legal basis for making the easy-to-account system available to the Greenland authorities, but it remains up to Greenland itself to legislate in the area of Greenland's own law on public payments. When the easy account system is used in Greenland in the future, there will be a transfer of personal data to Denmark. This transfer requires a so-called data protection legal transfer basis, and Denmark and Greenland are making an agreement on this. In other words, this is a good opportunity to make life easier for citizens in Greenland and make it easier, including for Greenlandic authorities, and I think it is great that there is so much support for this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127102329	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are no brief comments to the Minister of Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127102348	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127102410	Thank you for the floor. We all hope to get older and live a long life. We all have an idea of how our lives should be shaped with age, and I wonder if most of us imagine an old age where we can enjoy our family and friends, cultivate our interests and perhaps work in civil society and make a difference. At any rate, I have the idea of engaging in the work of children and young people on a voluntary basis and, at the same time, growing my family and my kitchen garden once when I grow old. Fortunately, Danes live longer and longer. For many years, as a country, we have been interested in what affects our health. In Denmark, we have policies for the physical and psychological working environment at the workplace. We are researching the role of diet, smoking and alcohol in health. We have built up a strong healthcare system which not only focuses on cure but also on prevention. But most of all, of course, we have a welfare society that ensures equal access to health care, regardless of age and social income, even when we grow old and the forces are shrinking. Our welfare society must be constantly fine-tuned, and we, as politicians, are responsible for constantly meeting the needs that arise. We all know in this Chamber that the fact that we live longer also challenges the economy of the municipalities. Therefore, the government also chose with the 2021 Economic Agreement to raise the municipalities' economy by a further 1.5 billion. kr. in relation to 2020, for example: to enable demographic developments to be covered. It will always be social democratic policy to hold hands under common welfare. If we can't cover the demography, we're gonna hollow out the help for those who need it the most. The older report, which we are going to debate here today, identifies a number of specific areas that we must pay particular attention to, and I would like to highlight a few of them. The first point I would like to make is the issue of dementia. One of the bound tasks that we as a society have to solve is the challenge of dementia. The report mentions the many and necessary efforts in the field of dementia; efforts that took off in 2016 in the form of the dementia trade plan. Although there is a decrease in the oldest age groups in the development of dementia, we know that the risk of developing dementia increases with age. Living with dementia or being related to a person with dementia can be challenging to a degree that can be difficult to understand for those who have not experienced it. That is why it is crucial that we continue to have a strong focus on this area and it was crucial that, with the implementation of the reserve for 2020 to 2023, we were allocated 244 million. kr. the follow-up to the National Dementia Trade Plan, among which include: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. kr. for investigation and treatment units, 52 million. kr. to continue the 13 advisory and activity centres and, in particular, 39 million. kr. for better relief to citizens with dementia and their relatives and then 20 million. kr. to the dementia travel team and their focus on reducing antipsychotic medicines. We look into a future where concern for citizens with dementia and their relatives requires our attention. Getting old is not a disease, but in the area of the elderly, dementia is a disease that fills a lot. According to the Alzheimer's Association, up to 80% of people live in the country. of the citizens of our nursing homes a dementia diagnosis. Dementia is therefore a basic condition in Danish care for the elderly, a disease that sets out a direction for how municipalities should give priority to continuing education, for the daily organisation of care and care, and not least for cooperation and the involvement of relatives and volunteers. I am pleased that the report gives priority to the demersal sector to the extent that it does. The report also addresses the issue of loneliness among the elderly and, unfortunately, loneliness can also be the result of our longer lives: the loss of a spouse, children who have moved away, friends and workmates who go away, means the disappearance of the lifewitnesses. The report puts a necessary focus on loneliness, for with loneliness comes also physical and mental illness and unfortunately suicide. Persons over 65 continue to account for more than a third of all suicides in Denmark. Combating loneliness is a very complex size, for how do you find those who experience loneliness? Being alone isn't the same as being lonely. The municipalities must describe in their dignity policies how they want to combat loneliness, and in my work as rapporteur for the elderly I am delighted at how much ingenuity there is in the municipalities and in the cooperation with the municipalities, and especially the voluntary and civil Denmark, which plays a huge role. Although we in Christiansborg can experience ourselves very important, it is in the community that the relationship must be created and loneliness combated. And it must never be an effort to be remotely controlled and detailedly controlled from Christiansborg. Local authorities are primarily responsible for combating loneliness, and it is in interaction with municipalities and civil society that loneliness must and can be combated. The subjects of the Elder Review are all relevant, and the last thing I will come around is the major challenges we face in terms of recruiting staff for care for the elderly. The care of the elderly is a pillar of our common welfare society. Nevertheless, year after year we have seen savings and cuts in this particular area, and although we have held our hands under the demography of recent municipal agreements, the many years of cuts and, above all, new public management as a management tool have ruined the joy of work for many and, unfortunately, also affected the desire of young people to apply to the important training courses at social and health assistant schools. We need to recruit more people to the area, and we need to ensure that employees in the care of the elderly have the right skills. The government's task force has pointed out a number of possible measures to solve the recruitment problems, and during the weekend the main organisation of the trade union movement, KL, Danske regions and the government reached an agreement which included: The aim is to make it more attractive to apply for training as a social and health assistant. The agreement obliges the municipalities to employ pupils over 25 years of age from 1 July as early as the start of the training. This ensures that pupils are paid during the initial basic course, a decisive step in attracting young people to the important education. When we here at Christiansborg set out the direction for the elderly area and for other areas of our common welfare, there is one crucial perspective that we must have in mind: employees in the public sector are motivated by making a difference. And it's not like I'm standing here making it up. There is evidence about this: The latest study by VIVE, called "Reds for increased local self-government in the public sector" - a systematic mapping of existing knowledge from all over Scandinavia, clearly points out that a crucial factor for a well-run public sector is that employees experience their professional skills being put into play. There is simply a bottom-up task in ensuring that older workers are involved much more in the organisation of professional work and that we show them that we trust that they can make independent decisions in relation to what benefits the individual citizen now and here in the meeting. We simply owe it to the employees, but we owe it to the elderly, in particular, who need the community. I am therefore also looking forward to the welfare agreements in the areas of the elderly, which we are negotiating. Do we here in the Danish Parliament dare to give the social and health workers more influence in the organization of aid and care? I hope so, because it is very much needed. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which, of course, we in the Socialist Group support. We look forward to the debate and the continued work to ensure a good framework for Danish care for the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103215	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine speech in which the rapporteur came across the area of the elderly. Now, when the rapporteur says that the government has given priority to the dementia action plan, I think there are a number of older rapporteurs here in the Parliamentary Chamber who remember that the government had not given priority to continuing the dementia action plan. We had to fight for that to be done by the government and that the dementia action plan that we had reached under the previous government was continued. Can the rapporteur not confirm this, in other words that it had not been given priority by the government? That was one thing. The other thing I want to hear about is in relation to these welfare agreements. Can the Socialist rapporteur tell us whether these welfare agreements will provide greater legal certainty and more legal requirements for the elderly, or whether they will reduce the opportunities for the elderly for free elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103314	Thank you. And thank you for the questions. To the first question about whether the government has prioritised the dementia action plan, I would say that in negotiations there is room for everyone to make their input, and now I am not in the government, but I know that the dementia area is very much part of the government's approach to the elderly area. So we have at least come out with a very good result of 244 million. kr., and I think that must be the crucial thing. However, I fully acknowledge and also know that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is so passionate about this area and has made a huge effort to ensure that we have a good result for the country. So thank you for that. On the next question regarding the welfare agreements, I would like to say that according to the presentation now before us, this is not what we are going to be doing here and negotiating. It is intended that the citizens should have exactly what they need. And we cannot waive that requirement there, after all, we must follow the law. And in relation to the question of legal certainty being broken right in that area, I would say that it must of course not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103421	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103423	But can the rapporteur confirm that in the presentation we have received about welfare agreements, and as the rapporteur himself mentioned in his speech, it is intended to reduce the choice of some of the elderly, also in relation to the right to choose their own assistants and the right to free elections? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103448	Thank you. No, I certainly can't confirm that. It is intended that the municipalities can have a much greater freedom, in terms of how they will organise aid and care for the elderly and, as I mentioned in my speech, take as their starting point the needs of the elderly and not in square schedules and number of minutes, in relation to that and that, but that the meeting with the citizen can provide some real opportunities. And that would be very, very happy to raise the whole area, and that is what we hear from the professional organisations asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103515	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103525	Thank you. I would also like to sign for a fine speech, but I would also like to say in the same breath that I am quite in line with Mrs Karina Adsbøl. I also wonder about the approach to freedoms. I also fully agree, as the rapporteur says here, that we do not necessarily have to take the negotiations here. We can pass that on to another room. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that there is free choice so that you can choose the accommodation you want to live in, and you can choose food service, cleaning etc. What I want to ask the rapporteur is the dignity policies mentioned by the rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech. For us in the Left, the policies of dignity are a very good tool, because they are a kind of pointer in terms of what to say, food service, the involvement of relatives, but also in terms of individual self-determination. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the Socialist Group shares the point of departure that dignity policies are essential both from a municipal perspective and from a citizen's perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103625	It is certainly a requirement for the municipalities to prepare them. And we have just done so because we expect the municipalities to deal with a number of these issues contained in the dignity policy. So it is certainly crucial that you have very clear guidelines on how to work with this in the municipalities. But it is also important for me to say that it is the municipalities that know the citizens. There are no two municipalities that are the same, and a citizen's association can be very different, and it is therefore important that it is the individual municipality that can organise their dignity policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103655	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103656	Thank you. I am just surprised that the Socialists attach so much importance to the policies of dignity and, here too, welcome the fact that we have policies of dignity when we want to take this out of the negotiations on the welfare agreements. Well, if I'm gonna be honest with you here, it's kind of in every direction. Then perhaps the rapporteur can say why it is that, in all municipalities, we should not necessarily have the dignity policies that the Socialists welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103728	After all, the current welfare negotiations are trials in three municipalities. So this is not something we take out of the legislation. There are three municipalities which, if it is adopted, will have the opportunity to ignore these dignity policies. It is, of course, because we all know in here that we have flooded the municipalities with a wide range of different requirements. However, if, as politicians, we begin to make a detailed assessment of the fact that I do not want it on the list of things to which we must exempt the municipalities, and I do not want it on the list either, we shall end up with nothing to exempt. But again, we are not going to stand here and negotiate. I would just like to point out that only three municipalities will be able to be exempted from this. And it's not safe for them to choose it. It's up to the three municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103811	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103814	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a very fine speech. I would particularly like to address my thanks to the section on dementia. Dementia is just the diagnosis that no man wants. Therefore, it is also difficult to deal with, because it is a difficult situation to be in when you kind of lose your grip on taking care of yourself. At the October Elder Summit, it was an absolutely crucial conclusion that well-known staff and staff who are familiar with the individual resident are essential for providing qualified help and for putting their skills into play. I myself was particularly concerned with the remark made by a social and health assistant when she explained how a demented resident comes to meet her on an evening shift and says: Oh, there was someone who knows me. Because it expresses just as well the need to be known by the staff. How will the Social Democratic Party address that particular challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127103920	Thank you for a very good question. Working with dementia requires very high professionalism, and it simply requires that we know something about dementia and what demented citizens need. This is something that has been rolled out over a long period of time in the municipalities, namely to have the staff trained, but we are far, far from achieving it. As I also said in my speech, this is one of the things we need to focus on in-service training for the staff we have, because we know that over 80%. of the citizens of care centres have dementia. There is only one basic task in that we have a focus on giving municipalities the opportunity to offer continuing training in the area of dementia. We can't do magic. Unfortunately, nobody here can, because then we would have solved the challenges long ago. It is my particular impression that there are high-pressure work being done in the municipalities to train staff as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104008	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104009	Thank you. I therefore agree that a great deal of education is needed when looking at the work of citizens with dementia, but dementia is a broad concept. So, first of all, it is a person who has received the disease, and there are many, many different variations of what it is that are needed from being angry, to being sad and to being insecure and afraid. So knowledge of the specific needs of the individual resident is absolutely essential in relation to precisely solving the problem of dementia. So can we come closer to becoming permanent and well-known staff to take care of citizens with dementia?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104047	I hope that there is a movement going on in the municipalities, where attention is being focused on exactly what Mrs Kirsten Normann is talking about here. It is really, really important that it is known staff. It's about the organization out at the care centers. We are beginning to realise that this is the path we need to take. But it is a difficult and gordian knot that we have, because there is a huge shortage of staff, and the municipalities have had to spread resources for far too long instead of collecting them. We hope, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that the fact that we are gradually being given a little more money to the municipalities so that they can give a slightly different priority can help solve this challenge. But it's definitely not just done with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104133	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104136	Thank you so much, and thank you so much for your speech. In his speech, the rapporteur says that there are quite large recruitment challenges in relation to sosu education, and I can only confirm that. The rapporteur also says, and I fully agree with that, that when you work with people, such as myself, you have to work with people. Dementia has, but at all, some of the older people who really need care and care, it is something you really want. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's response to what the rapporteur thinks about the choice in the municipality of Elsinore, for example, of a so-called employment-slash integration project, where, in order to get the ghetto area, effort has simply been made to get some of these women into so-called training. Does the rapporteur really believe that this is the right way to go in this very, very vulnerable area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104235	In any case, we must employ staff who have the right qualifications in this area, and that is all I can say. So now that the municipality of Elsinore has chosen this project, I'm thinking that it's because the municipality of Elsinore sees an opportunity here, and that some women get a job and can become self-supporting, and that of course it's also women who have the expertise and the opportunity to get it in this area. So I welcome that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104259	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104300	What I was asking was whether the rapporteur really thinks that this is the right way to ensure dignity and care in the care of the elderly, in other words to get an area of the ghetto list taking those who live there and pushing them into an education where they end up having to stand out with some of our most vulnerable Danes. Does the rapporteur honestly believe that this is the right way to go, or should we look at the fact that those who go out to work in the care sector really want to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104335	Now it is the rapporteur who chooses to use the word press. I am not aware of this and I do not know the specific project. Well, you never get anything good out of forcing people to take a particular job, at least hardly in the long run. However, I welcome all the suggestions to get people into employment, but also to get this recruitment problem resolved. We simply have to turn on a great many handles, and one of the handles may be to get people who have not been on the labour market in the past into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104412	So there are no further brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104424	Thank you to the Minister for the report on the elderly. The focus of the summer on the elderly area with TV 2's heartbreaking documentary, where we all got to know Else Marie Larsen and her family, has everything else just seriously put the elderly area on the political agenda. Although the backdrop is about serious neglect of care, betrayal and a sick culture, I am nevertheless pleased that the elderly area has now been given a new focus. That is what is needed, and I shall come back to that. When I read the Minister's statement, on the positive side, it counts that the number of preventative home visits has increased by 5%. Since 2017. It is and has been a priority for us in the Left to ensure that vulnerable elderly people living alone are offered preventive home visits. Citizens must know, and they must be informed of where help is available if they, for example, are to be found. are discharged from the hospital after long stay in hospital or experience loss of function or loneliness after the loss of a spouse. To have to live alone after a long life of twoness is too many a challenge, and too often twoness becomes loneliness, and for some it has fatal consequences, especially for women over 85 years of age, which is the group that most often feels undesirable alone. And with corona loneliness in nursing homes is enhanced because some municipalities have unfair visiting restrictions. Looking at the number of suicides among the elderly, the figures are just as sad, because the curve is not broken. The fact is that more people die of suicide in Denmark than in traffic. Both are sad, and the Left wants us to take initiatives to break the suicide curve with the forthcoming psychiatry action plan. As I mentioned earlier, earlier this year, we have come to know Aarhusan Else Marie Larsen. We have witnessed neglect of the worst drawer, and Else Marie Larsen is not the only one, unfortunately. In my mailbox, the list of relatives who have approached is not just to me, but to staff, to management and in some cases also to municipal councils, long-term people who have experienced neglect of their loved ones in nursing homes. There is a need for fundamental changes and cultural changes, and the Left has three concrete proposals. The Left wants more people to have real choices. More than half of the country's municipalities have only municipal nursing homes, and we in the Left want to change that. The older report shows that the number of free-care homes is increasing slightly, and this is a trend in the right direction, but more needs to be done. For us, choosing a private or a municipal is not crucial, but it is crucial that there is a real choice. Figures from the Danish Industry show that only a third of the elderly living in a nursing home know about the free choice of accommodation, and at the same time consider 82 per cent. of the elderly interviewed that free choice in nursing homes or nursing homes is important or very important. There is a clear picture that there is a need to strengthen information on the possibility for older people to make a genuinely free choice when choosing a welfare provider. Secondly, the Left wants boards to be set up in all the country's municipal nursing homes, where management, staff, the elderly, the fire-souls, but also the relatives have a place. The lesson from TV 2's broadcast is that we simply do not listen enough to the relatives. We in the Left want to change that so that the relatives are involved much more than is the case today. Last but not least, we in the Left want all elderly people to be offered an elder counsellor, a person who can impartially lay all the options before the elderly and the relatives, so that you can make an informed choice together when the last dwelling is to be chosen. It must not only be the elderly who have resourceful relatives that are being taken care of. All I could have chosen to focus on many other themes, for example. recruitment is an area which is facing enormous challenges, or the thousands of elderly people who suffer from deprivation, because their relatives are denied access to nursing home visits, or the fact that since the September Elder Summit, the elderly area has been completely silent, and we in the Left wonder that we have not heard from the Minister for Health and the elderly. I shall leave all that behind, and I will finish by saying that we in the Left have a clear expectation of being called for negotiations soon. As mentioned, we have several good suggestions on how to strengthen the area of elderly people so that we get both dignity, care and empathy back in care for the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104857	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104903	Thank you. The rapporteur attaches great importance to this free choice, and I really think that we should all be free people with the opportunity to choose exactly the life that we want to live. Nevertheless, today's free choice is simply limited to my being able to choose the logo of the car. Would it not make much more sense, since the rapporteur in particular highlights the Else and Niels cases, if Else and Niels had the opportunity to choose their own helpers and influence the help they themselves think they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127104944	I would think it would be absolutely fantastic if the SF would help strengthen the free choice. For us in the Left it is absolutely crucial that people are different and because people are different all their lives, and also when they get older that you have something to choose from. I think it is a great deal to decimate the free choice when you say that it is really about the logo of a car. After all, it's about being able to choose the offer that best suits the person you are. Whether it is food service, personal care, rehabilitation or housing, it is essential that there is something to choose from. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, in about half of the country's municipalities there really is no choice. There are quotes in only municipal nursing homes, and we want to change that in the Left, so that there will also be e.g. a free nursing home in much more municipalities. And if the SF will contribute to that work, we say yes by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105043	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105044	Thank you. Let's just stay with that free choice of nursing home. The real choice, if you need a nursing home here and now, which you always have to search for first, and for which you only get searched when you really need it, is that either you take the seat that is available or you have to wait until there is actually a seat available in the nursing home that you want to be in. How much free choice is there actually today when it comes to the matter? Does the Left not also think that there would be much more perspective in ensuring that all nursing homes are good places which allow room for exactly Else's or exactly Niels' special needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105124	For us in the Left, it is not a question of choosing a municipal or private offer. For us in the Left, it is about something to choose from, precisely because people are different, so that you can choose the last accommodation that best suits the person you are, the desires and the needs you have, and so that, as far as possible, you can also have a bite with the life you have made before. That is absolutely crucial for us in the Left. When the SF then mentions visitation here, I would think it would be quite fantastic if we could agree in the welfare agreements to release the visitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105159	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105203	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to continue a little along the same lines as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen mentioned. Because free choice is probably more than just free choice of supplier, free choice is probably more about what it is for some options you can have. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned food and housing. I guess it's more about what opportunities we can make available, regardless of who is the supplier on it, and that requires resources. Now I could hear that the rapporteur was very concerned about the fact that we just need to restructure our way out of this and that it is about just getting some other suppliers in. But I guess this is basically about there being enough resources to deliver this. So does the rapporteur agree that if we are to ensure that there is a freer choice for the individual citizen to be able to have better care than today, then it also requires that we add more resources to the area so that there can be more staff and that there can also be resources to have fewer different employees around the individual citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105307	Resources are also needed. We're getting older. By 2030, if I remember correctly, we will be about 230,000 more elderly people. So resources are part of the answer, but more resources are not the whole answer. Where I sometimes get worried, when I hear rapporteurs, especially from the left, here in the Parliamentary Chamber, almost as an automatic reaction, mention more money in response to the challenges of care for the elderly. There is also a need for more money, but there is also a great need for initiatives to be taken to bring about a fundamental change in culture. This is among other things. Therefore, we on the Left have proposed more free choice, also in relation to nursing homes, and boards of the municipal nursing homes, where both the management, the relatives and the elderly have a place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105406	Sir. Peder Hvelplund for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105407	But if it is the case that more resources are needed, then it also requires a willingness to devote them, and that is where we have been able to see only when there have been bourgeois governments that the demand for living up to the demographic trait has not been met, that is to say, that resources are being added as the number of older people increases. The money has to be found somewhere, and there is just the question of whether it is some money that should come from here or whether we should say that free choice means that those who can afford to buy proper care can have it and that those who then do not have must do without it. Is that not a real statement of the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105445	I think one of the great differences in the way Mr. Peder Hvelplund thinks, and the way we in the Left think is in that Mr. Peder Hvelplund's party is the support party for a government which has given the municipalities a bag of money, and what happens to that bag of money is not dealt with. We have from the Left, among other things. asked about what kind of municipalities have lifted the care of the elderly. It's hard to get an answer to. There, when we were part of the VLAK government, together with the Danish People's Party, we devoted a great deal of money to certain things, so that among other things. have come nursing home kitchens and the rock card scheme, and so more money has been set aside for recruitment, if I may just mention a few things. It is, of course, a difference in the way of thinking whether you just drop off a bag of money or whether you actually have an idea of what kind of areas you want to lift.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105533	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127105551	Thank you for that, President. We owe our older fellow citizens thanks very much for building up our society. And no, the elderly are not an older burden. Our elders are a strength, for their experiences and their efforts are appreciated. That is why the elderly must also be a pillar of our society. It is absolutely essential that everyone can count on the welfare society to be there when you need it. All citizens must be able to meet their old age safely and be sure that they can receive help, care for the elderly and care of high quality. Unfortunately, we are constantly seeing examples of our older fellow citizens not having the care and care that they need. The documentary of the summer has given special illustrations of the neglect of care, the degrading treatment and the obsession of people with flesh and blood. And that is heartbreaking and totally unacceptable. How has it been able to get there? Visible management and a change in culture are certainly needed. The goal for us as a country must be to have a top care and care sector that can deliver, and we have a common responsibility for this, whether you are a rural politician, a city council politician, a municipal director, a social director, a nursing home manager, relatives or other things. In the Danish People's Party we want an older law. The government has a great deal of focus on a child's law, and we also believe that there is a need for an old law to ensure that older citizens receive dignified treatment, present care and direct influence on their everyday lives. In addition, the Older People's Act will have to include the introduction of national standards in the care of the elderly, the strengthening of the supervision of nursing homes and a number of other initiatives, all of which are aimed at combating the salientity of elderly care, of which care homes have shown clear examples from this summer. Over the years, we have seen a number of cruel examples, and that is why we also need to ensure the care of the elderly against further weakening. There is also a need for us to focus once again on national standards, so that employees also have time and opportunity to provide the care and care needed by the elderly. I think that the best thing would be for the concrete minimum standards, the national standards in this area, to be made in cooperation with the Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association and other stakeholders, in other words cooperation with our civil society. The current elder supervision carried out by the Board of Patient Safety has been part of a four-year trial scheme, which resulted from a rate pool agreement from 2018. When the trial scheme expires, the supervision of personal assistance, care and care by the Board of Directors under the Service Act will then cease. And if this happens, the municipalities' supervision of themselves will be the only supervision of the compliance of care for the elderly with the obligations of the Service Act. For this reason, we also fought in the Danish People's Party in the negotiations on the reserve to strengthen supervision, including for a travel team that can be sent to the nursing homes that are given a mandate from the Board of Patient Safety, i.e. a new registration system for worried visits from relatives and nursing staff, as well as an information material that should make everyone aware that you can contact the Patient Safety Agency. Unfortunately, we have heard from relatives how difficult it has been to get through to the municipalities with their concerns. There is also a need to increase the number of unannounced surveillance visits to ensure that as many units as possible are visited by the supervision. Unfortunately, the right to care is not directly enshrined in the Services Act today, and recent revelations in the area of the elderly confirm the need for a real right of care to be included in the legislation. And then, of course, the senior management will also have to respond to care failure. Older citizens must be involved and help to control their own lives, and this also applies in cases where an elderly citizen suffers from dementia; the elderly citizen may also be able to make decisions himself in some cases. In other words, we have the clipboard system, which is also a good example of a system in which an elderly citizen can choose for himself what the extra aid should go to. It can be a trip to the hairdresser, a bike ride or an extra bath. Unfortunately, however, several municipalities have chosen not to continue the rock map scheme. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that the rock card scheme should also be statutory, so that it becomes a right for the older citizen, whom the municipality of residence cannot save or prioritise away. Older citizens also need to be given more freedom of choice, for example. in relation to the choice of nursing home or home care scheme. In several parts of the country there are many opportunities for the elderly, but elsewhere there are not so many opportunities for them. Many elderly people are not, in fact, guided by the right to free elections, which is why we also think it is important to look at this area. It is also crucial that the relatives in connection with visitation are adequately advised by the municipality about the alternatives that are beyond the municipal nursing home or the municipal home care. In the area of children, it is now the case that there is a duty of notification, where teachers, educators and ordinary citizens are obliged to inform the authorities if they suspect that there is a lack of care in the home. We do not have the same obligation to provide information in the area of the elderly or in the case of adult people, and that is why we also think it is important that there is a compulsory obligation to inform when you see that an adult is being careless. It is important that we ensure that nursing staff have the right professional skills, but also that they have a basic empathetic and caring approach in working with their fellow human beings. That's why it's also important when you look at this area that you look at the working environment. What kind of work is it that you as an employee have to be in and work with? And there is such a need for visible management • a manager who is also present in addition to the normal working hours, which for many managers are 7-15 or 8-16, but is also present in the evenings and on weekends, and who knows what is going on at the nursing home. In addition, we in the Danish People's Party have proposed that we have a national solitude strategy, that is, a strategy across all the areas, and we have thought that the partnerships set up here under corona could be good partners in getting this national solitude strategy done. Unfortunately, we see here under corona that the visitor restrictions have been many and that many have had to do without their loved ones. That is why I also have an appeal to our Minister for Health and the Elderly to look at opportunities in relation to what is, of course, health-friendly. But I wonder when you make an announcement saying that you can have a visit from one person in a visitor's room, that you can't have a visit in your own home. There are a lot of things that puzzle me throughout this process, and so I would like the Minister to call on the older rapporteurs to discuss what is possible, and what can we do? I have asked if a negative coronatest could provide access so that you could visit your elderly, also several at a time. I remember Marie from my constituency, she was 100 years old, and she simply had to choose between her children, because she was only allowed one visit and the other two could not come to her 100th birthday. So it is important that we look at solutions rather than all the restrictions. It is also important for our employees that we as staff should not, of course, be left alone with 34 residents. So there are a lot of things to do in the area of the elderly, and we are in the Danish People's Party ready for negotiations. We are just waiting for the Minister to summon us. Following the tragic incidents that we have seen about neglecting care, there has been an older summit, and it was a good older summit where several organisations were involved and also made proposals, but after the older summit little has happened. We therefore look forward to the Minister calling for negotiations as soon as possible so that we can ensure good and dignified care in the future for all our older fellow citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110525	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110529	Thank you. And also thank you for a fine speech. I share many of the rapporteur's wishes in relation to the care of the elderly and am also very concerned about the corona of elderly care, which I certainly think we should address as soon as possible. However, I have a question for the part dealing with minimum standards. It must be in cooperation with the Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association, I heard that the rapporteur said, just as one can hear, that the Left would like to have nursing home boards in the care of the elderly. It just puzzles me how does the Danish People's Party imagine that minimum standards in themselves give the elderly a more present help? In other words, can standards at all be made to meet the specific needs of the individual citizen? Or is it more important to provide well-known and professionally skilled staff who know exactly what Olga and Marie need in their daily lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110629	It's about both. It is about establishing national standards. So, as we have seen, there are nursing home staff who have stood alone with 34 residents at night, and that is completely unreasonable. This is in terms of being able to ensure that the elderly receive a decent and caring care, but you know well that, as the rapporteur also knows, I have worked there and have trained social and health care assistants that if you as staff have to stand alone with so many residents, perhaps there is a dement that wakes up at night and that is door-seeking, and at the same time there may be a number of toilet visits to which you have to follow. That is completely unreasonable, and that is why I think we should have that discussion and ensure that we have some national standards as to what we as a country want our elderly to have. And I think it works well if we do it in cooperation with them, that is, the Elders Case, the Alzheimer's Association, and what else is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110735	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110736	Thank you. I also know the stories and have experience with a nursing home where it was 60 residents spread over three floors that a night watchman was supposed to take care of. This cannot be done, and yet it is the situation in which some work. But I myself was so touched by the fact that I also recognize it from my own work in the care of the elderly... exactly the situation that the social and health assistant reports about at the senior summit, where the demented citizen comes and says: Oh, there was someone who knows me. Because it means just so much to the residents that it is known staff; you feel safe when you know: Today some people are in control of me, and I don't have to worry if they know what it is that I'm going to eat for dinner, where the red carpet is going to lie, or what kind of TV programme I want to watch. So to what extent does the rapporteur think it makes sense to try to invest more on that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110826	Well, in the Danish People's Party we do not have only one part we want to bet on; we want to bet on the whole palette. There are a great many solutions that I think we can go for and we can work together on the basis of. I fully agree that the fact that you know your citizens, i.e. that they are not unskilled temporary workers, I would have liked to say, who come from outside, is of great importance. Now the rapporteur himself has also worked in the field, and you know that knowing your citizens just means something. And sometimes words are superfluous when you have knowledge and knowledge of the life stories and family and networks of the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110909	The next rapporteur for a brief remark is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127110913	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a very good speech. There were a great many elements with which I fully agree. Now the rapporteur mentioned both the strategy of solitude and the system of rock maps and, in fact, also the minimum rights, which are not far away from us either. But the real challenge right now is recruitment. We need staff. We can talk so much about minimum rights and clipboards, but we are acute and need staff both now and in the future. What are the rapporteur's considerations about what we can do to strengthen recruitment? We know that there are elements both in terms of terms and conditions of employment. We know that there is a tight economy in the municipalities. What is the rapporteur's view of what we can do to solve the recruitment problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111004	It is also about many things, and if I could decide for myself, our employees should have something more in salary too. In the past, Bornholm has also been trying to recruit more staff by driving on a student's salary. Now there is an agreement on that too. It means something. I mean, economics is a lot, I guess. Then I think that the part of the working environment means a lot. You hear that as an employee you just have to run stronger and stronger and do not have the time for care and the time for care. When I started, it was like we were getting rounds for the residents. We cooked dinner at our residents' house. I learned to fry pheasants and cook buns in celery, and many of those things have been taken away from. Then there were timetables afterwards. So what is important is of course that we hear the staff about what is needed and what needs to be done. But then I also read a study that showed that in fact every third employee is involuntarily on reduced time. That's something I think you should go in and look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111116	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111118	I fully agree that terms and conditions of employment mean something. That is also why we have proposed that a low-wage pool be set aside for public contracts, so that a real increase in wages can be achieved. But that presupposes that we add resources. We can see from the VIVE study from 2019 that the number of home help hours has been cut. In fact, 13.5 million home help hours have disappeared if we compare them to 2008 levels. It has been during periods when the Danish People's Party has also helped to be responsible for the funds given to the municipalities. Does the rapporteur agree that more funds must also be allocated to the municipalities in order to carry out this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111200	Well, in the Danish People's Party, we have not entered a negotiating room without prioritising the elderly area and without putting the elderly area high on the agenda. That's one thing. The second thing is that every year there are negotiations between the KL and the government in relation to economic agreements. It's also important that you get more focus on this. We have always said that there is a need for resources in this area, and we have also fought for this and worked for it. But I look forward to the Finance Act, which both SF and Enhedslisten will help to get through, and see what is going to the older area and what is being added to the older area. We would like to contribute from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111243	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111257	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your statement. In many ways it fences into the challenges of care for the elderly. Everyone has the right to a good life, everyone has the right to a good childhood, everyone has the right to a good education and to be able to live a full and complete life with friends, working life and experiences. And all people have the right to a good, active and safe old age with care, if necessary. We live longer. That in itself is a good thing. But the fact that we live longer also means that more of us end up in need of care and care. It is not in itself a problem, but it challenges us as a society. It challenges the economy, as several people have already mentioned, and that is why funds have already been set aside for the care of the elderly in this Finance Act. It challenges the employees, who have even had to contend with the consequences of the covid-19, who have hit particularly vulnerable elderly people and have therefore hit the care of the elderly even harder and harder than elsewhere in our society. The employees deserve a lot of praise for handling this. This is particularly true in the fight against the loneliness that several people have also mentioned, which affects many elderly people in nursing homes, where the elderly have been isolated with limited access to visits from family and friends. It is a tough round and we must make every effort to find good solutions that make it possible for us to be present. But it challenges us first and foremost because it means that more skilled staff are needed in the care of the elderly. Because no matter how we turn it, care, care and quality require that there are the hands that are needed. And here, as a society, we are being pressured, because the hands are not there. Over the next 10 years, more than 40,000 new social and health workers are missing. That is why it is important that we ensure in time that we have the manpower that is needed. The municipalities and educational institutions are struggling with this. I'm afraid that's not enough. We need to get more people into the labour market among those who are lagging behind. And then we in the Radical Left believe that it should be possible for social and health assistants from other countries to obtain residence and work permits while they apply for authorisation, just as we know it from doctors or nurses, so that they can learn Danish and be allowed to pass the relevant professional examinations. All hands are needed so that we can ensure good and safe care for the elderly. Thank you for your statement and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111509	Thank you to the rapporteur now. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111513	Thank you for that and congratulations to the rapporteur on his excellent rapporteurship. And now I choose to put a question to the rapporteur, because the rapporteur is new, but has to get into it, and it is always good to get into it in a good way. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the fact that the rapporteur says that we need more from other countries to come and work in our care and care sectors. But there I would like to hear about one thing in relation to the demands of the Radicals, because in the Danish People's Party we have the requirement that when you are employed in the care and care sector, you should also be able to speak and write Danish. And I would just like to hear: does the radical rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111557	I can be brief: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111604	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111605	That's a nice card. Well, I look forward to that, because we are actually tabling a motion for a resolution on this in the Chamber. Because there have actually been huge challenges with it, and I also think that there are probably more than me who have had some inquiries about it. The second part I would like to hear about is in relation to the financial law negotiations that are now in place. How much will the Radicals give priority to the area of the elderly when they go to financial law negotiations in the near future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111629	As the rapporteur noted, I am a substitute, not from hell, but from Viby, so I do not have the opportunity to sit in those negotiations. However, it is clear that care for the elderly is an area of priority. So it goes without saying that with a shortage of over 40,000 people in the care of the elderly, we cannot do so without more money on the table. Whether it will be in the financial law of the year, I do not know, but it is necessary in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111645	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speeches and replies. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127111656	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly for the statement. First of all, I want to send a warm thought to all the elderly in Denmark, who in this difficult period are particularly vulnerable and more lonely than they usually are. I hope that the warm thought can be exchanged as soon as possible with a warm hug. We're getting older and we're living longer. This in itself is very positive, and it is an expression of good development in society. However, the increasing number of elderly people living longer and longer will also increase the pressure on care for the elderly. Our first task is to ensure that this pressure does not impair the elderly; we must always guarantee all citizens, regardless of income, a high quality of care for the elderly. This is a huge task, partly solved by economic agreements with the municipalities, which ensure that the budgets now follow demographic developments, but there is still a great backlog, which I hope we can start to cover up with this financial law. The prelude has been good with the conclusion of a tripartite agreement the other day, which in turn allows the municipalities to employ social and health students as adult apprentices, because we have two crucial problems in this area that we need to resolve. We need to recruit more social and health workers, social and health assistants and nurses to the area. And then we have to raise the quality of care by ensuring a permanent and continuous staff in home care and at our care centers. The elderly citizen should, in popular terms, have the right to his own home helper. Of course, there will be different employees on different shifts, but we should work towards more permanent teams in the care of the elderly. This was also the overriding message from the October Elder Summit. One of the reports that impressed me most was the social and health assistant, who told about the meeting with a demented citizen when she met on the evening shift: someone knows me, said the resident. And that is exactly the kind of security that older people demand. It is good to know that the employee knows the needs of the resident; it is good to know that the employee is actually able to assess the condition of a resident; and it is crucial for the staff that it can assess whether the condition of the resident has changed. This therefore presupposes familiarity with the resident. It also requires knowledge of the resident to assess whether initiated interventions are working. And it is the knowledge of the resident that enables the staff to put their knowledge and professionalism at risk. Knowledge of the resident is also an essential prerequisite for preventing health and safety problems. This applies both when there is a rush due to a lack of overview of the day's tasks, because you do not know the residents, but it also applies to damage caused by the fact that you do not have in-depth knowledge of the handling of the physical support that the residents may need. Known staff also make it possible to show the necessary flexibility when some needs are more important today than others. It may not be today that we need to clean our nails instead, or maybe we need to go for a walk in the spring sun or whatever is important today. In these coronatides it is also a fact that a well-known staff can also reduce the number of contacts with different employees and thus create a little more space for residents to also safely see their relatives. Back to the statement, which among other things. also explains how suicide in Denmark back in 2018 was a serious problem, where up to one in three suicides were committed by older people aged 65 or over; a proportion that has gradually increased since 2006. This is extremely worrying and something we need to focus much more on. In particular, we should address the fact that too many elderly people fear an old age where they depend on help. No one should fear that situation. That is why we are waiting for a great deal of work to be done on recovery. This requires both continuity as a prerequisite for quality, and it also requires that we ensure that the number of nursing homes follows the trend in the number of elderly people who need it. In this context, I would just like to say 'no' to security insurance, because security insurance is precisely an expression of the fact that we are more lacking in the provision to elderly people in municipal care that can be expected. But no one should be dependent on insurance against a secure old age. Yes, with these words I would just like to say thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112207	There are just a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112211	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I noticed that the rapporteur said: 'It may not be right today that we should be cleaning... perhaps we should go for a walk...'. However, the rapporteur does not agree that there should be room for both cleaning and, unfortunately, we know that cleaning has been cut incredibly much. That was one thing. The second thing I want to follow up on is the pact that SF and DF made before the elections, in which we wanted an extra billion per year, in addition to • and I say in addition to what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, chairman of the SF, follows up on what the annual older billion is to be used for: • If we just set aside for more older people, then the service will be just like today. And it's not good enough... So I would just like to follow that up with the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112315	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112316	Thank you. In relation to the last part, I have noted with great satisfaction that this government has finally ensured that the budgets follow demographic developments. This was one of the most important steps we could take, because it stops the erosion of care for the elderly. It is also true, as I said in my own speech, that there is also a need for recovery in relation to the erosion that has taken place. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it may not always be cleaning that you have to change, it might also be something else. But I think that there are a lot of older people who have an experience that something might be different today, that it could be done tomorrow in return, and that flexibility can be provided, if it is the case that you know as a helper or as an assistant that you will be coming tomorrow and so you can fix what you have not reached today tomorrow without, for that reason, compromising the quality of the individual citizen. I also believe that most older citizens are having a difficult and tight time with tight schedules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112422	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112423	Yeah, well, now it's like Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr said that if we just drop off... So, in line with demographic trends, the level of service does not increase, and therefore this extra billion was needed. That was one thing. In the Danish People's Party we have also fought to get more funds set aside, and of course the funds should follow the demographic move. Then the SF goes to the negotiations with an extra billion for the elderly area, where you get both care and cleaning and also have time for a walk?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112503	SF goes to finance negotiations with a desire to strengthen the care of the elderly and improve the care of the elderly and is therefore also ready to rethink the way in which we have thought about care for the elderly, and could some bureaucracy be removed, so much so for me, if it can be exchanged for some more social and health workers and health assistants who can get out to help the elderly in their daily lives. So care for the elderly is on the agenda for the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112524	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112526	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for a fine speech by the rapporteur. Earlier, when I was on the platform myself, the SF rapporteur asked a number of questions about free elections, and I welcome that. Now I will ask here the other way around: Where does SF think it would make sense to strengthen the free choice? We had a small word exchange about visitation just a moment ago. Where could the visitation be set free? That's just an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112602	Basically, I think it is important that the staff who come to the home of the citizen have the opportunity to assess what is needed that day. What are some needs that need to be met? And we should also be happy to agree, in cooperation with the local manager, that more time is needed if that is the case. So I already agree that one could look at whether the visitation is really necessary. But may I not also remind you that the search has just been introduced as a consequence of the free choice, where it was important for the Left that private companies should have the opportunity to deliver in the area of the elderly. The visitation became a prerequisite for making this BUM model, so you could buy and sell services from each other. For SF, the most important thing is for citizens to get exactly the help they need, and in this respect we are not concerned about what the logo is on the uniform or on the company car. We are concerned that the elderly themselves have an influence on what help they get and need.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112700	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112701	Thank you. I fully acknowledge the rapporteur's reply, and thank you for that. But let me try to ask again: could SF imagine removing the search for aids so that an elderly citizen can simply obtain the aid he or she needs? Could the SF imagine going that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112723	I could see that you could. However, I am thinking that perhaps we should at first have stopped the gap created under the previous government, where it became possible for the municipalities to charge some citizens for aids below a certain limit. This may mean that aids of different kinds must be bought suddenly. It can, for example, be done. be a strap for a bed or a cup to drink off, because you've had trouble holding a cup, so all these aids that cost less than 500 kroner. And it's actually user pay in through the back door that's gotten into the care of the elderly. I think we should start by stopping that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112758	There are no more brief comments. So thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127112805	Thank you for that, President. It's hard not to mention the names Niels and Else when we discuss the government's statement on the elderly. The heartbreaking pictures from TV 2's documentary I think made a deep and indelible impression on all of us. It showed a picture of an unworthy treatment of some of our older fellow citizens. Afterwards, explanations were queued up: It was poor management. They were incompetent employees. It was more supervision. There is no doubt that management and competence play a role, but this is not a problem we can get out of. It is about a real increase in care for the elderly, both in relation to the number of employees, but also in relation to training, skills and further training. Fortunately, we have both skilled and competent staff in the care of the elderly, but they need both confidence and time. We need to have confidence that they can use their competences; that they can manage and plan a large part of their tasks themselves in cooperation with the citizens they are employed to help; time for them to use their relational competences; and, of course, a management that can ensure recognizability and clarity for both citizens and employees. That is why it is so important that we also have trained staff. That is why it is also a key demand from the Enhedslisten for the financial legislation negotiations that we ensure a permanent increase in the area of the elderly. Specifically, we propose to hire 2,000 more in the care of the elderly: 500 domestic assistants who can enter immediately and raise the hygiene standard, and 1,500 more employees in the care of the elderly. In the first place, the 1 500 will have to go in and replace 1 500 unskilled people who can then receive training as a sosu in the meantime. Then we get both more hands and a concrete lift. At the same time, we want to allocate funds for professional sparring, so that employees have the opportunity to share both experience and knowledge. Because over the past few years, we have seen a starvation of elderly care. This was clearly documented in VIVE's report from 2019 where among other things. could read that the proportion of weak elderly people receiving home help for practical tasks such as cleaning has fallen from 43%. in 2007 to 25 per cent. in 2017. There has been a decrease in the number of home help hours of about 13.5 million if only we were to be at the same level as in 2008. It is obvious that this development cannot continue unless we believe that we are so rehabilitated that we are ultimately completely self-reliant or perhaps more helpless. Therefore, it is also positive that this government has succeeded in getting a commitment that the funds should keep up with the increasing number of elderly people. Under previous governments, the recipe has been that the municipalities did not receive funds corresponding to the increasing number of older people, after which in a finance law Santa Claus was played out and distributed gifts just not for the equivalent of what had been cut down over the years. Fortunately, however, we have had a change; that is all that was lacking. But it is not enough that care for the elderly can simply keep their skin on their noses. There is a need for concrete boosts, also in order to attract new staff, because this will be needed with 150,000 more plus 80-year-olds over the next 10 years. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we will work for concrete boosts as this year on the Finance Act. It is also very gratifying that the FOA and the Elders case, in cooperation, established the older summit, which could provide new concrete proposals for a future organisation of the elderly area, because there is a need to look at both organisation, housing, self-visitation and recruitment. We are faced with a huge task, which is why it is absolutely necessary for both users and employees to make their clear mark on the solutions. We have a common obligation to ensure fair conditions, including for our older fellow citizens. The first steps in the right direction have been taken with the promise that the money will come with the increasing number of elderly people, and by the FOA and the Elders The case has taken the lead in contributing to the work of organising the future care of the elderly. Hopefully with a concrete boost to the care of the elderly on next year's Finance Act. The first steps have been taken, but it is on a long road. I
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113246	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113250	Thank you. After all, it was a proper piece of work, but a good speech from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are some good elements in it, but there was also such a much ruffle to previous governments. But I would like to hear something in relation to the budget law. Well, that was sir. Bjarne Corydon, a former Finance Minister who implemented it, and it was at a time when Enhedslisten was a party to support that government. What does the rapporteur think about this? It's also kept the municipalities in a mess in this area. That was one thing. The other thing I want to hear about in relation to this is: What does the Enhedslisten expect to get through in the area of the elderly in the Finance Act? What can the older ones feel by the fact that Enhedslisten has been sitting at the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113354-2	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I can inform Mrs Karina Adsbøl that there is an excellent campaign called the Skrot Budget Act, to which Enhedslisten also actively contributes, and it could be that there were also members from the Danish People's Party who would like to contribute to that campaign. It is precisely about abolishing the totally unreasonable budget law, which, of course, puts some extremely restrictive ties on the ability of municipalities to invest in welfare. In fact, in the real world, the budget law is stricter than the EU's convergence requirements. So, in our view, the budget law must be removed and, moreover, it is also a demand that we are constantly making and that, as I said, we are also helping to organise popular campaigns in relation to. In relation to the Finance Act this year, the negotiations have not yet been completed. I have a clear expectation that we will have a boost to the area of the elderly. I mentioned earlier that what is our primary focus is to ensure that we get more employees than we do today. In any case, we have been informed in the past that it is 15,000 unskilled workers who work in the care of the elderly. In fact, I believe that the number is increasing. It is clear that this is an issue that we need to address. We need to ensure that it is trained staff who work at our care centres with our elderly fellow citizens, because it is a challenging task that also requires professional skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113519	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113521	Thank you for your answer. I was a little surprised that Enhedslisten has such an entire campaign office in terms of organising campaigns against budget law and perhaps other things. But it's very interesting. I would like to hear when Enhedslisten says that they have demanded that the Budget Act be scrapped, how indispensable that requirement is. So, is that a requirement that Enhedslisten has also included in the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113557	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113557-2	If I've come to say that it's Enhedslisten who has a campaign office that arranges this kind of thing, then I've taken my mouth too full. I pointed out that there is a campaign called "Scrap Budget Act," to which Members of Enhedslisten also contribute. But it's people who organized it themselves. But it is clearly the wish of the Enhedslisten that the budget law should be abolished. It is, of course, as with everything else in this Parliament, that there will have to be a majority in order for us to do so. However, it is the view of the Enhedslisten that the budget law must be abolished and, of course, the convergence requirements that lie within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113630	Then it's Mette Thiesen, New Citizen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113631	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur says that none of the cases we have seen cannot be dismissed. I think we were all pretty shaken up when we saw the documentary on TV 2. You see some employees who, while Else hangs in a ride over a bed and yells at her crying at many times, standing next to her, but nothing happens. They keep pushing her, she hangs there for a very long time. Does the rapporteur really think that, in relation to examples like this, people can be trained from it? Well, can you train yourself out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113712	It is clear that there may be incidents that cause it to have employment consequences, but basically yes. This is very much about ensuring that there are trained staff and that there is sufficient time for you to have professional sparring as well, and that you can know how to deal with the citizens you are set to look after. And then there is no doubt that what we have discussed here earlier today is that there will be a stronger relationship between employee and citizen, and that there will be fewer employees around each individual person also help to lift this. My point is that if you have an idea that this is all about us having some individual incompetent employees, and that if we fire them, everything is good, then you live in a delusion. Because that's not what this is about. It is also about raising the level of education, because it actually requires education. It is a challenging and complex task to work with, among other things. This is why it is absolutely essential that there should also be adequate levels of education and that we should recognise the efforts that employees have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113814	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113815	Fortunately, I do not live in that error, and I think very few do, because there is no simple solution to this. But I can hear that the rapporteur confirms that there are, I believe, two or three employees in this situation. So this isn't about running really strong or anything else. It is about the fact that there are some employees who should never be in the care sector end! However, I can also hear that the rapporteur is in agreement, and we also agree that there are, of course, more options. But one of them is, of course, to get rid of all the stumbled vessels that are in the care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113851	I am not standing here from Parliament's platform and drawing on recruitment consequences for any employee. I do not know the background to the situation that has arisen. But it is clear that this is about a culture that is at work, and it must of course be changed. There is no denying that any of this also means that there are people who must be dismissed or should have a warning. But that is something we leave to our capable and competent leaders in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113915	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127113915-2	Thank you. I have to follow up on the last question, because when the former rapporteur mentions the many stumbled vessels, I think that this is a gross accusation against the thousands of helpers who are doing a fantastic job, and we in the SF want to help protect them. There we have actually proposed an authorisation system for social and health workers. I just want to hear what Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks about that particular part. Then on another issue, namely the conclusion of the Elder Summit, where both FOA and Elders Case and other organisations pointed out that what with known staff can make a crucial difference to the quality and also to the working environment of employees. So will the Enhedslisten also help to ensure that the skilled staff are also known staff and thus have the opportunity to exercise their skills?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114013-2	In relation to an authorisation system, we are in no way opposed to it, and this could also be a way of helping to increase recognition of the profession. I just think that, with regard to the issue of authorisation, we should be aware that it does not solve the problem of events, of course. Because it is not only a question of obtaining an authorisation; it is also a question of having generally raised the level of education. But we are by no means opposed to it. I fully agree with the staff around them. It is also part of the intention to employ more staff, namely that there will also be time to have more known staff and that there will also be room for it by the management. Moreover, I also fully agree with the point that we should bear in mind that we generally have a very competent and very competent staff in the care of the elderly. If we were to say that we owe them something, it would probably be more recognition and better pay and better working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114107	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114112	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. It's always exciting to hear what Enhedslisten has on the block. We've talked a lot about this salutary sculpture in the care of the elderly. Many organisations have also mentioned the need for a fundamental change in culture. What's the answer from Enhedslisten to that? Is it more of the same, is it more staff, more money, or does Enhedslisten have any concrete suggestions on how we can get rid of this? How can we ensure that there will be the change in culture that the elderly, the relatives, but also the many older organisations demand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114203	I think there are several things in it. I think some of this is about getting more resources. In other words, it is also a question of sufficient time to be able to give employees the confidence that they themselves can help organise their work. Then it is also about education and ensuring that there is the adequate level of education available. And then it is a lot about what we are also talking about when we talk about it with well-known staff, that is to say that the relational will be able to fill more, that there will be more time for you to see the citizen you face as a human being, rather than it just becoming a task. And that is the risk if you have the feeling that you are not involved in your work and that there is no time to do the job. It also means that you will then deliver a worse quality. So I think it's about several things, but it's both pay and terms of employment, recognition and time for the more related. And that also means, of course, that you have to work in some smaller units.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114301	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114304	Thank you. It is not the case that one can accuse the Enhedslisten of being innovative here. More staff, among other things. was a priority since the Left had government responsibility together with the other bourgeois parties and the Danish People's Party. At that time, we prioritized funds for more warm hands. We have also changed what to say, the training structure, i.e. for sosu assistants and sosu helpers, and we have made a great survey of the whole sosu area in relation to recruitment. It's not like much's happened. Therefore, I just ask again: what is Enhedslisten's response to how we ensure a cultural change?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114347	We'll get it now. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114348	In fact, it will basically be new if we start paying for more elderly people. For the disappearance of 131⁄2 million home help hours since 2008, it speaks like its clear language. It may well be that more people are employed, but more older people have also arrived. In other words, there is no doubt that we have experienced an elderly care that has been under pressure. Demography has not been covered in the economic agreements concluded by bourgeois governments. Fortunately, we have changed that now. So this is both about recognising that more hands are needed for the increasing number of older people, and about showing more confidence, rather than everything being done in schedules, because it needs to be outsourced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114429	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you for that, and we'll move on to Mr. Knox. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114439	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, a very important debate that we are having here today, and I would like to note that fortunately we have a very large number of employees around us who are doing an excellent job, who are caring for the elderly and who have a great deal of importance in the daily lives of the elderly, where they are the bright spot in many ways. And thank you very much, because that's how it's supposed to be. But when we take the debate here, it is often about some of the issues we see, and I have also written here on my note, that we will never see examples such as those seen with Else and Niels, who were basically subjected to neglect. That's the way it is, but unfortunately it's going to fill up in relation to all the good examples and all the good experiences that the elderly have with a skilled and dedicated staff around them. And that is where we have to be careful that it is not the problems that are going to take the whole place. What we are looking into here in relation to the statement is, of course, a description of some of the challenges we face in the future. And there is no doubt at all that we need more staff. We simply have to do so, and all ships, in other words, must be put into the sea, because it is a huge challenge that we are looking into in relation to the lack of staff. So we cannot operate proper care for the elderly without sufficient staff. It's really, really fine with the adult apprentice scheme and more of that kind. Well, we have to make sure we motivate some more people to apply to the care of the elderly. I have already said that we now have a corona crisis, where there are plenty of people who have lost their jobs, they are adults, and I think we should try to see if there is any possibility of recruiting someone who has gone beyond the years of youth, if so to speak, and who might have a desire to do a good job in the care of the elderly. Because we cannot ignore the fact that we see great apostasy on sosu education, too much apostasy, and that would suggest that it is because it is not always someone who has chosen what they would rather do, that is to say to be social and health assistants or helpers. So we have some problems there and I simply think that the first priority is to ensure that we are able to have staff in the years to come. Then there is no doubt that we need to ensure that the elderly have some more say, and that goes right into the free choice, that is to say, self-determination in relation to which nursing home, which nursing home they will live in, in relation to the free choice of care and care, whether it should be one or the other supplier, and also with practical help. Then, of course, in relation to the rock map system, there is also a right of self-determination, which at least has to be given priority at a level so that people have the opportunity to decide something about the time that is being made available. Then it is very, very much about management, because when we think back again about Else and Niels and the situations that have been there, there is a flagrant lack of leadership, and lack of leadership can lead to a sick culture down the system, and that is quite horrible. I think it must be a requirement that the leaders who are in our care centres sometimes come into the substance, if you can put it that way; that they also sometimes take a shift, perhaps a night shift, or if there are other staff who cannot be present, so that they have a finger-tip feeling of what is going on in this house, in this institution or in this care centre. It is simply so important that you have leaders who are skilled and dedicated, who are leading and who know what is going on. Because without knowledge of it, it's gonna go to hell. We also have major challenges in relation to the demersal area, and there are several things. But we have all seen together a desire and intention to have as good and worthy an elderly care as possible. So it's most of all about how we get the clues laid out, so that we can ensure that we have proper and dignified care for the elderly in the future with a dedicated staff who can provide proper care and that we address the issues that the report so finely describes will be problematic for the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114952	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127114959	Thank you so much. It is time for a new direction in the care of the elderly, a new direction with the individual elderly and the individual family in the centre, and in New Citizens we generally believe in more freedom and more free choice. That is also our policy in the area of the elderly. During the summer TV 2 showed the much debated documentary about the nursing home residents Else and Niels, and it wasn't a nice experience when I saw it. It was extremely heartbreaking to see how Else and Niels, both affected by dementia, were humiliated and badly abandoned by the caregivers. These are employees in the two nursing homes who should never work in the caring profession, and neither more in the payroll nor more colleagues will be able to do so. At the same time, we saw a heartbreaking case of massive failure when a gambian man humiliated and threatened an elderly woman with dementia in a nursing home, Green Garden in Elsinore. It shouldn't be like that. We need to put an end to the stinging vessels in the care sector. The other day I went to see Jennie and her mother in Greve. They find that their mother and grandmother do not get the proper care and care at the nursing home. Jennie's grandmother is denied, she's actually only weighing 32 kg now, she's having difficulty swallowing, she can't chew, and yet she was served rye bread. She has dementia, but she was not helped either to eat or drink, nor did she change her diaper. This is simply not good enough, and it should not sound like conditions are like this in all municipal nursing homes, but this problem goes deeper than Aarhus, Randers, Elsinore and Greve. It is simply that the system is not good enough. The elderly and their relatives do not have the freedom to choose from or to choose. In New Citizens we are in favour of the money following the elderly so that the elderly and their relatives can decide for themselves exactly what care they want. For it is an essential part of a dignified old age that the system does not underage the elderly. Therefore, schemes in which the municipality searches nursing home, food and cleaning should be provided as a direct grant on a certificate available to the elderly themselves. Then more nursing homes must be free-care homes, because it creates room for initiative and individual solutions bypassing public and municipal constraints. In free care homes, ideas can be translated much more easily and more quickly into practical measures and better quality of life for residents, and this is urgently needed. It will naturally close the nursing homes that do not provide a high enough level of care, and bad managers and employees will not just be repositioned, but they will be chosen from. A nursing home must be a home and not an institution, and in New Citizens we will set out a new direction for the elderly, a direction based on common sense and real freedom of choice. Skillful professionals, people, not robots, must create good nursing homes with lots of caring and love. Because life has to be lived all its life. The system is not working properly today. Let us now give the elderly who have helped build up our country a decent and caring old age, and let us generally give the Danes more freedom and more free choice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127115413	We thank the rapporteur and there are no brief comments. I see no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why it is the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127115430	Thank you for that, and many thanks to the rapporteurs for some incredibly good and interesting contributions with some very, very beautiful values. I have written a good speech by my talented officials, but now I think I will not make that speech when I sit and hear all the parties of the Folketing present here. I have also been a part of and followed the debate very closely since the documentaries this summer from TV 2 and history, as Mrs Mette Thiesen mentioned, from Elsinore. We just have to be completely honest there and say that we can say we're upset and that we can have this debate over and over again and then there'll be a new documentary and a new one with hidden camera and a new social media thing etc. And then the Folketing can agree again that you're really upset. They say there's just a snap, and then it's all loose. But there isn't a snap where it's all solved. To be honest, nobody should be surprised that the situation is at a level where we cannot generally be familiar with our care for the elderly. It shouldn't come as a surprise to this Parliament, and it's a responsibility that I'm going to take on. Those parties that have been responsible for making financial laws and wage-pooling agreements must all share the responsibility, the historical responsibility, and also the responsibility to carry out the task forward. It does not hold that we have some debates over and over again, where we pretend and say: No, that is enough; now we are shaken by some things. We know that there are too many places where they are too pressed, where they run too fast and where the cuts in elderly care, home care and nursing homes have gone too hard on the everyday lives of some very fragile people. It just doesn't work out. Now we in the ministry have made this fine statement, where we completely and without wavering and without cherrypicking, or what you call it, there is no whipped cream on the floor presenting documentation of the situation. And I would ask you to look up on page 14 with Table 5, where we have calculated how it looks with recipients of home help from 2013 to 2019. Note: I also bring social democratic governments here. What about the recipients of home help in recent years? I can say that for about the same period, there have been 200,000 more elderly people over 200,000 more elderly people. There you can see on the table: Well, of those who only receive personal care, there are fewer in 2019 than there were in 2013 • there are fewer. It is at the same level, but there are just a little fewer, at a time when there have been up to 200,000 more, at a time when there has not been a single election, when parties have gone up to the elections and said: we would like to ask for a mandate to cut back on the care of the elderly. In fact, people have heard the opposite. You have heard that we would like to give priority to care for the elderly. They have voted for parties that will give priority to care for the elderly. This has just not happened when there are fewer people who receive personal care at a time when there are more elderly people. Looking at the bottom line of both personal care and practical help, you can see that there were 51,627 who received it in 2013. Last year there was 49,607 again a fall. In other words, on the absolutely fundamental key parameters at a time when there has been much more ageing, it has happened in Denmark that there are fewer of our elderly people who receive help for completely fundamental needs: personal care, practical help. There are fewer people who get that kind of help. That is where the problem is, and that is where there are problems with Niels and Else and Elsinore, and there is the Count problem we have now heard about here. I very much hope that we will be told exactly what it is and where it is so that we can take action against it. But we can't jump from single case to single case, from tue to tue. That simply cannot be done. We need to address the fundamental problem and it is a task that will not be less in the future. Because despite this, the good thing is that we are getting older, that there are more good years of life, that public health is getting better and that there are children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren who have more hours, more days and more years with their loved ones because we are getting older. That's great news. There's just one requirement for us here in the Folketing, and that's: then the money has to keep up. We can't let the money go with us. That is why I propose that Parliament as a whole should vote in favour of a welfare law whereby we commit ourselves to keeping up the money when there are more older people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120046	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120051	Thank you. I was a little curious about the speech made by the official body, but it may be that the minister will send it over afterwards. I'd like to ask you something about this. I have, of course, asked how much service levels have increased in the municipalities since, as has been said, more funds have been allocated to the municipalities, and we have not been able to get an answer on this, in other words how more money has been put out to help the citizens. So one thing is, of course, there must be the resources that are needed, something else is how to spend this money. The minister says we can't be surprised. But I would say that I am therefore surprised that some people can treat other people in a degrading way without empathy and without care. I think that one can be surprised. The second question is: how has this been achieved? After all, it is no excuse that the Minister is busy too, and the Minister must also treat other people properly, even if the Minister is busy. So, finally, I would like to ask the Minister: when are we going to be called up for negotiations in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120205	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120206	Everyone who works with people in our welfare society, and especially those who work with vulnerable people. And that is what we are talking about here... has a professional duty, but also a human duty, to treat other people properly. And when we were all shocked by what we saw in these documentary shows, it was because it was the opposite that we saw there. My point is, we can't just jump from tub to tub. We need to look at the basic problem. There is, of course, together with the Elders Case and thanks to the Elders case for having taken so much of the responsibility for helping to straighten out the ship here • been made a very big follow-up at our senior summit, and thanks to the rapporteurs for the words about it. And they also demand that we basically take action. And there, of course, the parties will be involved and invited to discuss how a political trail will come along with the trail in relation to the Elders Case, FOA and KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120310	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120311	So, I am a little impatient on that track, because we have been asking from the Danish People's Party for a very long time now when we will be called to these negotiations. And then the Minister has said that we had to go over the Older Summit first, and now the Older Summit is over, and we have still not received an invitation. In addition, we still have to turn the remaining money into the good old life, which we in the Danish People's Party have also fought for. When is something going on in this area? I just need the Minister to take action and also act on the good words.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120349	A great deal of work has been and is being done and thanks to the Elders Case, KL, FOA and the Danish Health Authority for participating in the work on organisation, supervision, learning, family cooperation, recruitment, quality, competences and management. That is what was addressed at the Elder Summit, that is what is being taken care of, and that is what will also be a political process around. And I look forward to discussing this with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120420	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120422	Thank you. I guess you can almost say thank you to a brave minister for departing from the speech paper. I have to ask about these 200 000 more elderly people, as the Minister points out in Table 5, page 14. I mean, the minister says that 200,000 more older people have arrived, but there are approx. 2,000 fewer people who are searched for both personal care and practical help that far, as well. If you turn over the magazine and look at page 15, you can see from what is called Table 7 that there are also about 4,400 fewer people who are searched for food service, despite the fact that 200,000 more elderly people have arrived. Does that mean, Minister, that older people eat less or that they have stopped eating? I hear the Minister say a lot of words, and I hear the Minister hide behind a statistic that you can wave as you like and pull it out of as you like. I think it was interesting if the Minister would try to dive down behind the numbers and use them to give some real answers to Else Marie Larsen and all the other elderly out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120536	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120538	There we simply have a deep, deep disagreement and stand on each side. If you read in the Left these statistics as a description of how things are better and better in the care of the elderly, then I just disagree deeply, I would say. For these statistics show very well that at best it has stagnated, and at worst Mrs Jane Heitmann himself mentioned what she brought up herself, and there are fewer people who are being helped, here in concrete terms: help for food. There are either the same numbers or fewer who have received help in the years when there has been much, much more elderly. It is then for me to see it may be that it is not for the Left that clear proof that when elderly and relatives and employees shout up, they are actually right. You're actually right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120640	Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120641	Well, thank you, Minister. My message is that it would be interesting to hear the Minister's explanation that suddenly there are 4,500 young people who are being searched for food services. What is the Minister's answer to the many elderly? What is the Minister's answer? It is so easy to pull up a statistic if you do not dive into what lies behind the numbers and what you really want to do about it. The reality is that the Minister for Health and the Elderly has held a two-day summit, and nothing has happened since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120717	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120718	Unfortunately, what is being said here by the Left is not correct. Since the summit, these clues have been made, which I mentioned earlier, along with the Elders Case, along with the FOA, along with KL. A tripartite agreement has just been drawn up which addresses strengthened recruitment. There are several rapporteurs who have signed for this from the parliamentary platform, and right now we are debating the Finance Act, where it is well known that the government's recording is a substantial increase in the area of the elderly, and I have only heard that the negotiating parties will also lift up the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120753	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120755	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I think it is wonderful to hear the Minister recognise that there are major problems with regard to our care for the elderly. I think it is a good thing to stand here in the Chamber and hear that it is actually something that touches all the rapporteurs, and you have different ways of solving this so far, so well. When will we be called to the real negotiations? Because I hope that in this area it will not be, as has unfortunately been seen in other areas, that it is just the government that is making some solutions. I hope that the government actually intends to involve all the parties so that we can ensure that we have a new direction for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120844	There will be involvement and a call will be made. I have also agreed with the Elders Case, which is doing a huge job, that it is my responsibility to ensure that there is also a political anchoring in the work of the Elders Case, FOA and KL as a follow-up to the start-up which was the Elder Summit. Besides that, there are also negotiations on the economy of our care for the elderly, and there it is up to all parties to play their part and make proposals in relation to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120919	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120921	Thank you. Then I will look forward to an invitation to real negotiations very soon, so that we can resolve this, because I think that we are at least a few sitting and very keen on it. So, as previous rapporteurs have also said, not so much has happened in this area, unfortunately and urgently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120943	I would now like to say that I agree 100% with the last contribution from the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120951	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127120952	Thank you. I would like to say something like that following on from Mrs Jane Heitmann's speech a few moments ago... the same as the Elders case also says that the needle eye to be searched for help has become very, very small, and that the vast majority of those who are searched for help today have dementia and therefore also problems in expressing their own needs. So one of the things that I thought was important at the Elders' Summit and that the FOA and the Elders' case also made a really big deal about was the decisive conclusion about known staff. In other words, skilled staff are important because it makes it possible to act, but well-known staff are also absolutely crucial. Because if you do not know the individual citizen, you simply cannot provide qualified help. I heard the Minister confirm that, and perhaps it was in the Minister's speech paper, I do not know. But it was just such a question to the Minister: does the Minister confirm that it is still an objective after the summit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121050	Yeah, I totally agree. This is an agenda that is crucially important: this is that a personal home must not be turned into a railway station because you need help. Yes, the help you need is of course practical and physical and personal care, but it is also security and security to be able to function in everyday life. And turning a home into a railway station is the opposite that happens. So here we need to strengthen financial security so that we do not have new cuts every year and new savings when we make these routes to the employees. But we also need to strengthen the management layer, management both in nursing homes and also in care for the elderly, so that they can take responsibility and shoulder responsibility, so that there is much greater security and much greater security for the elderly to know those who come and help you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121147	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121151	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. After all, I fully agree with the Minister that it is absolutely essential that we ensure that sufficient funds are made available for the increasing number of elderly people, that is to say, that the funds are accompanied by the increasing number of elderly people, as we have also agreed in the context of economic and financial agreements. But that's not enough. We should also be able to add something on top, so we could start to give a concrete boost because there has been starvation of elderly care over the past many years. After all, the Elder Summit showed some interesting things, as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also mentioned, both in relation to more trained staff, but also smaller units. But one of the things that was also pointed out is the question of visitation, because we see in the municipalities that many resources are being used for visitation. What is the Minister's view in relation to the fact that we might be able to give some of the visitation to both the citizens and the employees and there could be a higher degree of self-visitation? Are these thoughts on which the Minister can also support them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121254	There were many thought-provoking things at the Older People's Summit. Of course there were the elderly themselves and the relatives, but in fact there were also visitors who are often such a reproached group. They were at the senior summit and told about their difficult work, not least the difficult work of meeting the expectations that people have: Now we need help, now our mother or father needs help. Then a visitor comes out, and then you see how the help you need, which you think you are entitled to, is in line with the help we really offer. And there was what we heard at the Older People's Summit and I noted that the two things do not match very well. This means that there is a very, very tight regime. Therefore, visitation is part of the follow-up to the Elder Summit, and it is the FOA that is to blame for the follow-up. And I also look forward to including the parties of the Folketing here. For it is clear that this is absolutely essential; it is the threshold for the aid that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121357	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121400	Well, I agree with that. It is a little paradoxical that we in the municipalities see that in many places we have to arm ourselves on the front of the visitation, because on the one hand we must avoid getting cases on the board of the Anke and, on the other hand, we must avoid using more resources than we are absolutely obliged to. So it's just about hitting it exactly, and it's a waste of resources somewhere. And that's where I know you're one of them. in Sweden operates with a model where it is the employee who, in cooperation with the citizen, helps to assess what is needed. In fact, this sometimes leads to the need for less help, because one may tend to try to hoard help when one knows that it is difficult to get.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121440	Sweden is an example, and there are several countries that have something that we can be inspired by. There are also several municipalities which have actually come a long way in giving more freedom to the individual elderly and to the employee in defining what is needed in the specific situation. That makes me say an important point, namely that it also means that we in the Folketing must also accept that we cannot and must not manage every minute spent in the care of the elderly; that it is much better that the elderly and the employee and perhaps the next of kin take an active part, take responsibility and take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121516	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121525	The debate is open. Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121544	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the opportunity to discuss whether we should pay out the remaining holiday funds in order to stimulate the Danish economy at a time when we see increased levels of infection both at home and in particular in a large number of other countries around us. The government is very concerned to ensure that we get through the crisis we are in right now as best we can. It is therefore also important for us to keep the wheels running, and I am both happy and proud of the broad agreement we made in June to allow employees to receive 3 of the 5 weeks' holiday. A request has already been made for the payment of approx. 50 billion. kr. of a total of 59 billion. kr., and it seems that a lot of people have spent money in construction markets, electronics and clothing. The three-week payment agreement has therefore generally worked as intended. I would also like to take this opportunity to sign for the great goodwill and flexibility of the Parliamentary circle, which helped to ensure that in a few months it was possible to pay out so much money to employees. In the agreement to pay out the three weeks, we agreed to discuss the need to pay out the remaining holiday money this autumn, and we are now in the process of negotiating the payment of the remaining holiday money. In the government we are open to discussing the payment of the remaining holiday money, but in the end it is up to a majority in the Folketing and not least the parties to the agreement to decide whether and when the remaining holiday money should be paid. The authors of the motion for a resolution could have been involved in this discussion if they wanted to be part of the agreement in the first place. The timing of the payment of the remaining holiday money is up to the parties to the agreement to determine in the negotiations, but it may not be until March at the earliest. This is because employers can report holiday money for each employee until 31 December of this year. Then there must be a validation with the employer and consultation with the employee. It is a process which must help to ensure that a correct amount is paid to the employee. In addition, there is a need to develop a system which can pay holiday money based on employers' reports. There are, therefore, a number of considerations that should be included in the negotiations which, as I said, are already under way by the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121811	Thank you. I am glad that the government has embarked on negotiations. It was supposed to be by the end of November, and it is now. When you say that the parties to the agreement could only have been involved, I would just like to ask that if the government would like the parties to the agreement to go along with this, you should not suck something like that with holiday money into everything else, giving a lot of money to non-western immigrants who do not contribute to the labour market. And that's what they did in this deal, where suddenly money was also to be given to people on transfer income. So if you would have liked there to be a broad majority for it with holiday money because that was the way it was in the Folketing; it was actually from New Citizens; the proposal first came back as far back as March, then you could have just adopted it. And then you would also have had support from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127121855	I would like to begin by actually joining the Glee Club in relation to that, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen says. After all, I myself was in the meeting room back in March and had some good discussions with both Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and with Mrs Pernille Vermund, who early raised the wish that we should pay the frozen holiday money. And the idea that large parts of the Folketing accepted, I would like to sign for. On the other hand, I would say that I actually think that the very large aid package, and not least the stimulus of the Danish economy, which a broad majority agreed back in June, had the beauty of seeing itself in some compromises from the extreme left of the Danish Parliament and at least far to the right of the Danish Parliament. Everyone wasn't as happy with everything. I know, for example, that the left was very unhappy with the increase in the R & D allowance for research, as well as the fact that others disagreed with some other things. That is why, I think, it was a fine compromise in a serious situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122007	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122009	The anchor around that with the 1,000 kroner. For people on transfer income it was precisely that it was a very, very bad tool for creating stimuli. I just hope that the Minister can confirm that there are a large number of tools that could have been used and that would have given greater effect to both bnp and labour supply rather than to what was chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122030	I believe that this proposal came from several things. But that was among other things. inspired by the wise man and other economists who had said that if you want to go out and get some quick consumption going, you have to give some money to some of the citizens of the country who have the highest degree of consumerism. And among them are some of our fellow citizens who are on transfer income, and that is why it was included as an element among many initiatives. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is probably right that it isolated without everything else may not be the most effective, but it together with the other was overall effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122106	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122109	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the openness to pay the holiday money in another process, as I hear it, in the negotiations that the government has called for, among other things. is considering paying the last few weeks of holiday money. It's a little unclear to me that other than the government, it can both swing one way and the other... what the minister really thinks himself. What is the position of the Minister on these negotiations? Is it that holiday money has to be paid or is there any particular consideration that it is probably best for the citizens not to get the holiday money? What is the government's approach to this in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122143-2	After all, the government's approach has been the same throughout. In other words, from the start, when we chose to say that we are now drying up the freeze and starting to pay some of the frozen holiday money, it has also been well aware that all the holiday money had to go out at some point. Then there is a political, economic and, above all, technical balance between when it is then the most timely time, among other things. relative to the stimuli effect. There are also some contributions in today's edition of the Stock Exchange, where Salling Group says that it is not right now that they need the money, because people just go out and buy electronics; it is perhaps better to wait until a time when society has opened up even more. That is part of both a political and an economic balance, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122230	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122231	It actually sounds like the government could just vote for this proposal and get the holiday money when technically possible by March. Are there any substantial, and not christiansborg, procedural reasons why we should not decide that, of course, the holiday money should be paid as soon as it is technically possible with the last two weeks? Or is it only for procedural reasons that this should be done in a different forum from this one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122258	No, I don't think you can just say that. I think it is important to maintain and also be able to keep up with the crisis in relation to when the best time would be. It may well be a better time for April or even better for May. And in that light, I think it is important and useful, also in relation to the stimuli effect, to be able to keep some gunpowder dry. Having said that, however, it is clear that it is part of some discussions currently under way on the payment of the remaining two weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122327	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122330	Thank you, President. Now the government has such an ability to mix all sorts together in one bill, and if the government with the payment of holiday money, when we got the 3 weeks paid out, the people who got it; of course I didn't get it, because I didn't have it keeping the clean line and saying that we are making a bill on the payment of holiday money, then it would have assembled the whole parliament. However, as in many other areas, the government does, of course, just put something in, and then you set your feet for someone who would actually have liked to have voted in favour and been included in such an agreement on the payment of holiday money. That's what the government has been doing all along. So the question is: when these two weeks are to be paid, will the government, with the two weeks, keep a clean line, so that it is a bill only on the payment of the two weeks' holiday money, that is, without putting anything else into that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122421	Without prejudice to the fact that we have legislated very, very much in the course of the Corona crisis and a significant part of it too, urgent legislation, I remember that if that is the case, sir. Bent Bøgsted refers to the decision to make this one-time grant of DKK 1,000. In other words, it was in an independent legislative proposal and that the decision to pay holiday money was also in an independent legislative proposal. Sir. Bent Bøgsted is right that it was part of the same political agreement, and it did so quite openly that some parties did not want to be part of the agreement. However, the legislative proposals were separate and all parties were therefore free to vote in favour or against the separate legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122505	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122506	But that means that we can look forward to a separate legislative proposal on the two weeks of holiday money, where there is nothing more in it than that. That would be wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122518-2	Well, I shouldn't be able to say what ends up being part of a comprehensive agreement, and with the parties that are involved in it, it will probably be that way, and that is often the case in many of the political agreements we make that there is something you are very excited about and something you are very unhappy about. And then you have to do the bottom line: Are you overall enthusiastic, or are you overall unhappy? But there is no intention, when we are about to pay out the remaining two weeks of holiday money, that something else should be incorporated into that bill. We do not have any current plans for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122551	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122556	Thank you. We in the Left also think that we should be able to pay the citizens' own holiday money as quickly as possible. What I understand from the government is that the government wants to wait. Now the Minister says that it may be in April, it may be in May. But I also understand that this is part of some negotiations which I am just about to find out where is going, because I have not received a call for a debate on holiday allowances. I fully agree that this can be done under the second auspices in relation to the finance rapporteurs and the Finance Minister, but why is it that the government cannot press the green button, that is, when it is technically possible to obtain the holiday money? What is the reason why the Minister is hesitating and saying that it may be in April, it may be in May, when this is about the citizens' own money? I mean, it's the citizens' own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122659	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122700	I'd like to start by saying that sir... Hans Andersen is absolutely right that it is the citizens' own money. But I think that in that picture, sir. Hans Andersen uses, he also draws a caricature of the fact that it is the government that has frozen the citizens' money that we then store. The reality is that this has been a technical hassle from the start of the fact that the money is currently located in the companies. That is why we have found a technical solution to pay out this money which frees companies from being drained of liquidity and does not set them off with all kinds of administrative burdens by speeding up reporting. This is why it was first necessary to maintain that only three weeks could be paid, so that there was an opportunity to re-regulate the remaining two weeks. When Mr. Hans Andersen then asks what the government's position is, I can say that the government's position is, firstly, that we also want to pay the holiday money, but that it should be at the right time. Secondly, we respect the fact that there is an agreement that has been agreed to discuss when that timing is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122804	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122805	Yes, and that group of agreements has agreed, as I can read, that this should be discussed in the autumn, and we are at least nearing the end of that. That is why we in the Left welcome the fact that we are getting these discussions under way. But I just have to ask, does the government expect us to be able to finish them in the autumn? In autumn, for me, not in winter, but in autumn. Because I think that a great many citizens would like to know whether the remaining holiday money is on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122841	So, according to my best knowledge, discussions are already taking place, both with my own party and Mr. Hans Andersen's party. Can I guarantee that those discussions will be concluded before autumn becomes winter in a few days' time? I guess I can't. However, I have no doubt that the discussions that are taking place right now are about when this is technically possible and when we consider that this would be the most appropriate time for both economic and political balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122918	Thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we can start with the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127122931	Thank you. As I have said many times here on the platform, it is our task at Christiansborg to ensure that we get through the crisis as well and as quickly as possible. I think we have handled it sensibly and wisely, and not least we have done it together. As is written in the motion for a resolution, the Danish economy has come through it and better than feared and, I would say, better than many other places. But that is not the same as saying that we must now sit back and let things happen. We must keep an eye on the impact of what we are doing and whether more needs to be done. It has also been characteristic of the government's actions during this very difficult period, when we have had a lot of help packages for Danish companies and for the employees, which has ensured that many employees have actually been able to keep their jobs. And that's really, really good. There are many companies that have had a really hard time and that are still having a really hard time and will continue to be in trouble in the future. We have to help these companies everything we can and try to keep as many jobs as possible. It is therefore also sensible to ensure that people spend more money and act locally and ensure good local jobs. And here the payment of holiday money can be a very good tool for it. After all, we heard the Minister mention how much money has been spent by the first three weeks and that they have just been spent, as we hoped, for consumption and for the benefit of businesses. It is therefore also very good that there were some responsible parties that decided on this in June and thus helped to secure the economy in Denmark. At the same time they made the decision that you would look at it again in the autumn, what I can understand is that you are doing. After all, the same parties are now negotiating, among other things. the opportunity to get the last 2 weeks paid out I say among other things, because they are probably talking about so much else so that the money can get out to work as soon as possible, if that's what they decide to do. Of course, it can and I say can help keep the economy going. But, of course, we will wait for the negotiations that are under way, and we both believe and hope that some proposals will be made which will strengthen the Danish economy and which we will deal with later in this Chamber, as we have done in the past in relation to the things agreed in June. And, of course, I look forward to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123202	Now we heard the representative of the government say that there could be political and economic arguments for waiting. Can the rapporteur not comment on this: why not pay them out when it is technically possible? Can people get too much money they can spend on something, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123228	It will always be the case that when we have to make sure that there is some money going out among the population and going out to work, it is to get companies making money; to get them going; to get the economy going. And there it is important that you do it the right way and at the right time. And when these parties got together in June, they came up with some real things, I think, as we can see now has worked. And that is where I am confident that the responsible parties who sit there will also come up with the right thing. Whether it becomes holiday money or something else, I am sure they will make some good suggestions for it. They did that last time, and they will do it again. So this is not just a question of how to do it; it is a question of how to make it work best and when it will be at the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123316	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123318	I am just a little puzzled when the government says that it is not certain that the money should be released immediately, because one would like to keep the powder dry, as I have heard the government say, until later, when the same government has come up with proposals to increase and extend the housing job scheme, i.e. something that makes deductions if people spend their money. So how does it relate to saying: yes, we want an increased housing allowance, but at the same time we do not want to pay people's own money as holiday money? That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123346	Well, that's weird, as sir. Lars Boje Mathisen is trying to put words in our mouths. Because I have not heard the Minister say that he will not pay out this money I have heard him say that he would like to, but that he will do so at the right time. And he's sitting right now negotiating with the responsible parties about it. Now I'm also looking at both Conservative and Left as well as the whole Red Bunch and Radicals will also do this because they're sitting around the table. And it's just a question of doing it at the right time; they want to, but it's a question of doing it at the right time. And it could also suit New Citizens to get into that discussion instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123419	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123435	Thank you for the floor. For 9 months, the corona virus has ruled and influenced Denmark, and the world looks significantly different than before. The economy is heavily affected by restrictions and closures of parts of our society and, during the corona crisis, around 22,000 new unemployed people are now outside the working community. The crisis has taken hard on the Danish economy and a boost is needed in the right direction. And by paying out the remaining 2 weeks of frozen holiday money, the economy will get off the ground. The payout will give the Danes more money between their hands. This will lead to increased consumption and create around 5,000 jobs. So if the government wants to create jobs and growth, the payment of the last two weeks of frozen holiday money is a good place to start, and we want and support this as soon as possible, but of course according to a model that ensures that companies are not pressured on their liquidity. From the start of this discussion on holiday money, the Left has fought for the payment, only of the three weeks the government wanted 2. In the negotiations, we managed to ensure that we had three weeks, and that is welcome. Now we just need to pay out the last two weeks of frozen holiday money so that we can get the economy going and get growth going. Then I had written in my speech that the government promised in the spring that they would convene negotiations in the autumn, and today we are writing on 27 November, and we are still looking forward to receiving an invitation. I have to understand from the Minister that negotiations are already taking place, but that is not going on with the Left, because I have just asked the financial rapporteur from my party whether the Left has been called for negotiations on holiday money. We haven't been. So I don't know what kind of negotiations the government is talking about. That is why we believe that the situation is unchanged. We want us, of course, to be called for negotiations, which the government has promised in accordance with the agreement we have made in the circle of agreements on this. And of course we will be happy to show up, and we would also like to see that invitation come as soon as possible, because autumn is soon over, and then we start in winter. And what we agreed with each other was that we should be summoned in the fall. So, of course, I'm counting on that too. I hope that this message has been made clear in relation to the government. Because what we need to ensure is that the Danes receive their own holiday money as soon as possible. Against this background, the Left would like to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123727	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123730	I just need to make sure I heard right. After all, we have just had the minister on the floor and he said that the reason why the government cannot vote in favour of the proposal, although it is a good proposal, is that the government is in negotiations with the Left on it. We can then understand that is not true at all. All I have to say is that the explanatory statement used by the Minister does not hold up at all. There are no negotiations between the Left and the government, so perhaps there is no reason why the government should vote against it at all. Is that correct? I think this is amazing news on a Friday morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123800	I guess it's closer to dinner now. Yes, what I am being informed of is that negotiations on holiday money have not been called for, as we have agreed with each other. I just thought that was important to make that clear when I understood from the Minister that negotiations were under way on holiday money. That is why I expect us to have a call, because it is 27 November, and it is very soon December, and then it is winter, and I think that the agreements we make should be observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123836	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123837	If I know the government right, there'll probably be an invitation to some negotiations within the next few hours. If that is the case, will the Left still not support this resolution? I could understand that the government cannot vote in favour of a resolution if it is negotiated, but can the Left do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123851	Yes, as we stand here today, we support this motion for a resolution. Payment shall be made whenever technically possible. It is as we stand today. Then it is true that I hope that the government will be convened for the negotiations which apparently had already to take place. Then, of course, we will exert our influence and hope that this time too the government can be pressured to ensure that the citizens can have their own money paid out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123921	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123926	I would like to tell you about the future, namely that we can expect the Left to have a call for these negotiations. The explanation is that it is some technical error in an email system that has made it not reached its end. That's probably the excuse for why it hasn't come out. But I'm sure we'll find out soon enough. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127123945	You're welcome. I would just like to congratulate the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for bringing this to a debate today, because it is of course important. Well, it's the citizens' own earned money... sometimes a little hard-earned holiday money, hard-earned holiday money... that can now be paid out. As is the case today, we support the fact that this happens when technically possible, but of course we also expect a call for the negotiations, because that is what we have agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124018	There is no wish for further brief comments, and we therefore thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124028	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for a good motion for a resolution, and in this respect we could perhaps get a little more quiet down there. I have just a little extra speaking time, not President Jo, but we are not going to have such loud conversations. If you want to talk, you have to do it out in the sideways. Here you go). That is because I am speaking directly to the rapporteur for the proposers here. That is why it is a little unfortunate that the Conservatives' rapporteur is down in the back ranks. Usually he's sticking to a little further ahead in the ranks, but apparently not today. I'll have a little extra time, won't I, President? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That's good. This motion for a resolution is, of course, a good one, and if the authors had just contacted us and perhaps also the Left, there could have been more support for it, but leave it at that. I shall start by saying that we warmly support this proposal in the Danish People's Party, so the other is just a small one. As far as the payment of holiday money is concerned, I remember that there were a lot of objections when we started: the employers were unable to pay; they did not have an overview of that; it was at the expense of the employers' liquidity. At the time, we in the Danish People's Party suggested that the state could start because it is cheap to borrow, you get almost money to borrow today and then they could involve them from the employer. So that's what you do for the first three weeks here, and that's fine. Now we have come to the next two weeks, and I have noticed that in the first three weeks, the Minister for Employment said that it could not be done before the end of the year. That is fair enough, because in order to avoid the fact that people have to pay back money they have been paid out, they can only do so by the end of the year. That is fair enough, we will soon have reached that; it is only a month to the end of the year. But that does not change the fact that it was already possible to decide that the two weeks' holiday allowance should be paid. Then the Minister says that the parties that will back up have been called for negotiations. This is not the Danish People's Party. We weren't there because we broke out of those negotiations because of something else. It was not because of the holiday money; we are hot advocates of it being paid out. I just find it hard to understand why it is necessary to negotiate the payment of two weeks of frozen holiday money. After all, the Minister, the Government and the Social Democrat rapporteur say that they want to be paid out. It's basically the whole parliament who says they want to pay these holiday money. Then I can't see that there's anything to negotiate. Then the tax minister can just table a bill that you pay out the two weeks of holiday money at some point next year. Whether it should be 1 February, 1 March or 1 April or something like that, I have to leave it unsaid, but there is nothing to negotiate. Everyone backs the fact that they have to be paid out. Why, then, do you have to negotiate whether you have to pay these two weeks' holiday money? There's no need for that. So I would urge the Minister to go to the ministry and then say to his people: we have to make a bill that they will be paid out, for example. 1 March. The Minister is free to decide when they will be paid. And then you can make a proposal, send it in consultation or whatever, and then we can have it first-readed, and then when we come to New Year, the government has an overview of how much has been paid and then it is ready for the moment when the two weeks of holiday money is to be paid. I simply cannot see that there is anything to negotiate. The whole parliament agrees that people should have their own holiday money paid, that the two weeks of frozen holiday money should be paid here next year. We can easily accept that there must of course be time to get an overview of how much has been paid, and there the Minister has said that we have that overview when we come to New Year. Then the employers have finished reporting what is and then the state is laying out, and then they withdraw from the employers, as they have done in connection with the first three weeks. Then present the bill! It may be ready to be put forward here in December. We will soon have 1 December, then we will be over the autumn, and then it can be presented here in December, and then we can have it first dealt with before Christmas or not until January. I can wait until January to get the first reading if there is a payment on 1 March. But you can prepare and put forward a bill on payment, and then the minister has the whole parliament's support for that bill. So don't negotiate anything else on this point. All you have to do is concentrate on the two weeks of holiday money and say: we are putting forward a bill. Everyone agrees. The minister has one hundred percent support. I doubt that there is anyone in this Parliament who will say no to payment, and then there is no reason to negotiate. Then skip the negotiations with the circle that was with them. There's no need for that. Just present the bill. But the Danish People's Party supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124520	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124521	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur's position on the motion for a resolution and also to respond to the criticism that DF has not been included; it is a mistake on our part. I would like to say that it was going fairly fast when it had to be put forward. This was discussed in a number of debates in the field of business rapporteurs; it was discussed in a number of debates on these compensatory aid packages. There was, in fact, a majority in favour of it, but suddenly you just didn't take it with you anyway, that is, even though there was a majority in favour of it. So it went a little fast, but I would like to respond to the criticism that has come from DF about it, and we will remember that for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124552	Well, thank you for that statement. And I also understand that both the New Civil and Liberal Alliance agree with me that there is no need for a debate; that it is just about putting forward the bill. I think other rapporteurs can agree with that, that is to say, it is just getting started on the drafting of that bill. There is no need to negotiate, because everyone agrees that the money must be paid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124610	Then I think we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124627	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we like the authors of the motion for a resolution, want the remaining two weeks of holiday money to be paid. After all, we have already been involved in paying the first three weeks of frozen holiday money, and all the indications are that they have helped to boost the economy at a time when it was also needed. The last two weeks of frozen holiday money should also be paid at a time when it is needed and when it makes economic sense. And it may well be that it is then, when technically possible, in March, as I understand from the Minister. In the Radical Left, we were involved in the negotiations and the agreement on the payment of the first three weeks of holiday money, and we will also be sitting at the table when it comes to negotiating the payment of the remaining two weeks' holiday money. And we believe that it is within the framework of the decisions that we are taking, in other words with the parties which, moreover, have to sit on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124733	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124736	Well, I'm just trying to get a little smarter. Thank you, by the way, for the rapporteur's speech. I always think it is a bit too bad when it becomes such a process where you say: we want a different process before we vote for what we actually agree with. The Radical Left could assert their influence and vote in favour of the proposal and then the money would be paid out and we would all pay tribute to the Radical Left. It is not I who gets the credit, don't worry; it would be Mrs Samira Nawa. But I understand that holiday money must be paid at a time when it is good for the economy, so it is not yet possible to say that it is when it is technically possible. So the Radical Left is not going to be included in the political agreement with the parties to the agreement that holiday money should be paid whenever technically possible, because it is not known whether this is the right time or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124822	When you go to negotiations, you go to negotiations with your position. And the attitude is that these remaining funds should be paid out when it makes sense. It could, for example, be done. I would like to make it clear to the House that there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. culture and experiences, as among others. is a business that's on its knees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124846	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124848	I would really like to hear what the rapporteur's argument is in substance so as not to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution does not refer to procedural issues, but what is it in the motion for a resolution itself that simply cannot support it? Is it the actual time of payment that would be around March? And does this mean that you will not be part of an agreement where the money will be paid out in March? Well, that must be the substance of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124912	However, as I said at the outset, we are very much in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the remaining two weeks' holiday allowance should be paid. And it may also be that the right time is when it is technically possible, but now that there are negotiations, we believe that it is in this context that we must take those decisions. And that's what we've been doing for the first three weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124938	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127124940	I'm a little curious. Does the rapporteur think that it is the right of politicians to decide on the citizens' money and that one can ask when they have the right to get that money or should politicians have the attitude that it is the citizens' money and, as soon as possible, of course they have to go to the citizens? And then you can have a hope that they will spend it on what they want and at the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125002	We have actually discussed this proposal before the Corona as well as set the agenda in Denmark and globally and Radical Left were not in favour of the holiday money being paid because this was actually part of an agreement on a transitional period for a new holiday law. That is what we have been aiming for. But then it is also the case that corona has arrived and the economy has been brought to its knees, and that is why we believe that technicality has meant that the liquidity of companies has not been drained. We think that was the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125045	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125050	I know that there are some financial law negotiations now that the government chooses to withdraw fully from the overdraft and what is within the framework of the budget law, as low as 0.5. You do that because there is a lack of money in society. It's something that starts here from January 1st. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable to withdraw fully from the bank credit and debt the Danes and then withhold some money which could otherwise come out to the Danes and which could benefit the Danish economy, so perhaps you did not have to debt the Danes to the full?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125120	I do not think that we necessarily have to disagree with the payment of the remaining two weeks' holiday allowance. We are, of course, in the same place as the authors of the motion. We just think it needs to be resolved in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125138	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125140	Thank you for that, President. I just want to hear from Mrs Samira Nawa whether radicals have been called to the debates in the circle responsible for the payment of the three-week holiday allowance. In this context, I would also like to hear from the rapporteur what is actually being negotiated in connection with the payment of the two weeks' holiday allowance. Is it the date of payment, or what is it that is negotiated in terms of giving the green light to pay the two weeks' holiday allowance? We really want to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125212	No, I have not been personally called for negotiations. It may be that there are others in my party who are. I wouldn't be able to answer that right now. In relation to what needs to be discussed, I can say that yes, of course there is the date. It might also be possible to ask at such negotiations whether there are any economists who indicate whether it should be in March, April or May or when the money should be paid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125240	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125242	Thank you. Another question that might be interesting is: is it because the negotiations here to pay the two weeks holiday money are part of the Finance Act, so the Minister and Radical and SF and Enhedslisten, when the Finance Act is in place, come and say that now they have agreed to pay the two weeks holiday money? Is this in the negotiations on the Finance Act? Because if there is a proposal in connection with the Finance Act that we have agreed to pay these two weeks of holiday money, then I think there are some of the other parties who may not be included who will feel cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125321	I am an employment rapporteur and not a financial rapporteur, so I am not in those negotiations and therefore cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125330	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125332	Thank you. Now we hear the Liberal Alliance stand and say: why not adopt this resolution, because negotiations do not have to be held? Can the radical rapporteur confirm that when the Liberal Alliance was in government before the elections, things were decided in negotiations and not in the form of resolutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125351	Even without myself sitting in the Folketing, I can say: yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125358	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. I should just like to make the point that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, only one brief comment per person can be made. rapporteur. That's good. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125412	As the proposers, the SF also believes that the last two weeks should be paid. It is a good, it is a cheap, it is an effective way to get the economy going. That is why we are also extremely pleased that this is part of the negotiations in which the SF participates with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125435	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125447	There's no limit to how much history counterfeiting you can do in connection with this. The Enhedslisten was actually the only party that voted back in 2018 against freezing the holiday money. It is the money of the employees and they must go out where they belong: in the pockets of the employees. So I'm very pleased that Mr. Hans Andersen now says "and several times has said "The citizens' own money." So his party didn't do that in 2018. There were quite other priorities that lay ahead, so we should not just fall on the ground here. Anyway, I am also a pragmatist, and with the system that has been adopted for the first three weeks, a mess has arisen. Most people have been paid an imprecise amount, many have received different benefits, wrongly, and as recently as today I have received a request for a single mother who was at work but who has been offset in her housing insurance and such things. It simply needs to be cleared up, and that is the pragmatic reason why the payment cannot be made now or as soon as possible, as the resolution says, but that can happen when we have passed New Year. All the messy things the Ministry has shot to the corner by pointing out that it must be regulated when paying out the last two weeks so far so well. My call to the Minister and a little in line with the advice of Mr. Bent Bøgsted is therefore calling for negotiations with the parties involved as soon as possible with a view to agreeing on a timetable. That is why I say that we have to meet on the one hand the conditions so that we do not get the same quite wrong results from what is going on in relation to the payment of the last two weeks. To be sure of that, and you have probably discovered that as a bloodhound I have pursued those set-off scandals that have been going on, I would say: it must be cleaned up, it must be sorted out, it must be repaid and everything that needs to be done, and then with the absolutely important addition: with the necessary guidance from the authorities responsible for carrying out the work. That is the crucial reason why it is going to take its time. That is the crucial reason why it is very wise that there should be a debate or a meeting, or what we should call it, in the circle of parties which adopted the payment of the first three.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125712	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125717	I fully agree that what has happened with the set-off is not good, because it was promised high and sacred that there should be no set-off when the holiday money was paid. But does the rapporteur not think that with the experience gained in relation to the three weeks, it should be straightforward for the officials and the math boys in the ministry to say: now we have so much to do about how we should be able to send out the right guidance and then the mistake made with the first payment can be corrected by the other two payments? I guess there isn't much to negotiate on that. I guess you should have some experience so that you can correct the mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125805	I do not feel comfortable with this, because I have found that a quarter of all employees have been set off because their holiday payments have been made in a different way than for the remaining three-quarters. I do not think that is satisfactory, and that is why we need to talk about it. It simply needs to be corrected in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125825	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125827	The first three weeks I was not in the negotiations, and it was Mrs Jette Gottlieb perhaps or maybe not; I cannot say that I was also negotiating and talking about the money of the hourly wagers, i.e. those who have paid taxes and who have also entered a holiday account. It was well aware that some had paid tax on them, because that is what Mrs Jette Gottlieb is now talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125901	That is exactly what the problem is, namely that it is mentioned in a remark that there will be the problem and that it probably involves some number of those concerned, but there has been no solution to the problem. On the contrary, the opposite has happened, because it became the case at the conclusion of the agreement that a press release was made which clearly stated that we should not be set off against each other. So no, no, no solution has been found, and that is why it is necessary to convene at least one meeting, and that is the advice I will give to the Minister, so that he calls the parties involved at least one meeting and then finds out how to ensure that the scandal does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125938	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127125945	Thank you, President. The new Civil and Liberal Alliance is proposing that the last two weeks of frozen holiday money should be paid out. We Conservatives also want the last two weeks of holiday money to be paid as soon as possible. Earlier this year we reached an agreement on the recovery of Danish economy, which among other things. This meant that the first 3 out of 5 weeks of frozen holiday allowances had to be paid. It is no secret that if it were for the Conservative People's Party alone, all five weeks of holiday money would have been paid a long time ago, because there is and has of course been a massive need to stimulate our economy. The holiday money has contributed to this, and we have already seen that many Danes have taken advantage of the opportunity. In this respect, we must also remember that it is money that people have earned themselves. The agreement on the recovery of the Danish economy is not quite perfect, but it is, after all, better than nothing, because we must remind ourselves of the alternative. The alternative could have been that if we had not obtained a majority in favour of the agreement, perhaps no holiday money at all would have been paid. So we continue to work to ensure that all the holiday money is paid. I understand that a lot is being talked about in the Ministry of Finance about recovery packages and also about holiday money, and we are waiting for something to happen there. So if an agreement is not reached before we vote on this resolution, then we shall vote in favour of the resolution. But I hope that we will have an agreement before we get to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130137	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130144	Thank you. I would like to thank you for receiving the motion for a resolution. It is a motion for a resolution which, in relation to the statements made by the various parties on holiday money, ought to be able to go straight through. There is a broad majority, perhaps with the exception of the two Social Democratic Members, who may not quite agree that this holiday money should be paid or when we have not heard from them. But otherwise we have heard virtually from all other parties who think this holiday money should be paid. Then it is true that there are some technicalities about how it should be done, and of course we are completely open to them by the proposers and in the new citizens. Of course it has to be technically possible. In fact, I also think that on this occasion I would like to praise Enhedslisten for continuing to raise these questions about this set-off that is happening. Now I personally took part in the negotiations as far back as the first negotiations on holiday money and the three weeks, and there was a clear political desire that there should be no set-off in that clear political desire! And, of course, you have the expectation of living up to it. Then we have been sitting and negotiating as recently as 27 October, when the holiday money was also included, and where there was still a majority in the Folketing to pay the last holiday money. It did not become part of an agreement on 27 October, but the agreement states that before the end of November the parties which are in the circle of the agreement of 27 October should be convened. Perhaps this has happened and perhaps it has not happened; we were not in that agreement. But we hope that people will decide and then ask: why should we have a debate if there is a majority of the parties in the Danish Parliament who agree that the money should be paid out as soon as it is technically possible? It is the citizens' money and they must return to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130345	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130348	Just one small detail: I can listen to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that this challenge, which has been around offsetting transfer income in some situations, is of great concern to New Citizens. I could understand that it meant a lot to New Citizens. - Sir... Mr Boje Mathiesen confirm that the rapporteur has not participated in any of the meetings or consultations that have taken place on the issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130409	Yeah, I can do that, 'cause I don't. But that's why we can easily praise Enhedslisten for fighting for it. We totally agree with that fight. And we also have the expectation that these agreements will be respected and that the agreements concluded with a government will also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130425	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130426	I just need to understand. What seems to be the heartblood of Mr. Knox's body. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens are not so much heart blood that one attends one of the meetings we have had on the matter at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130436-2	No, because we really don't think there's anything to discuss because why should we discuss it? A government must live up to the agreement it has reached, and I have the expectation that the parties that have concluded that agreement will ensure it. We are not in that agreement, so we do not have access to come in and negotiate further with that agreement. We would have liked to, but unfortunately we are not in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130456	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130504	Thank you. And thank you for the debate in Parliament here today. After all, it is a little strange that we should be discussing this in the Folketing, whether people can have their own money, their own saved holiday money, compulsory savings even, and when they can have them. That is, of course, the spirit in which the whole holiday money system generally works. So, it is very bureaucratic, it is very paternal, and it is • our holiday money system in general • seen with our eyes very unnecessary; you treat adults, authoritative citizens as if they were little children in the eyes of the goose. We do not like that; it is a well-known position, but I think it should be flagged anyway. Today we are going to discuss whether we can get the last two weeks out of the five weeks of frozen holiday money. I think it is strange that this is something we should be discussing here, because it is the citizens' own money, and that is the very, very simple but strong argument for them to be paid out. And, yes, it will probably also have a beneficial effect on the economy, but there is no reason to imagine itself or each other in here that it is some miracle cure we make when we pay out the last few weeks' holiday money. I would like to thank all the good blue parties from the Left, DF, New Citizens to Conservatives for their support for the proposal to receive the last few weeks of frozen holiday money. And in one way one could also thank the rest of the Danish Parliament for supporting that it should be done but it just shouldn't happen now. Even the Minister and the government say that it might actually be a good idea to have the last two weeks of frozen holiday money paid, but it would rather decide that in some negotiations. We simply need to negotiate something that we all seem to agree on in here. We need to negotiate that instead of just voting through this resolution so that citizens know that the money will come out as soon as it is technically possible. One thing is that the government feels that way, I understand that in a sense; you want to be in the front line yourself when the money is to be paid out but that SF and Radicals are not just exerting their influence now, I have little difficulty in understanding. The rapporteur of the Radicals says, and I quote it literally now, that Radicals are on the same side as the authors of the motion. In other words, Radicals want this motion for a resolution to be paid out for the last few weeks of frozen holiday money to become a reality, but one chooses not to use its influence. One chooses to go to some negotiations and take the risk that it is something else that comes through, i.e. that it may be only one week or that the money is not being paid out at all right now. You could get your policy through by simply voting in favour, but you choose to negotiate instead and risk not getting your policy through. It seems like a strange christiansborg fan. I could understand it if you were 100 percent. sure that the government and a majority in the Folketing will, of course, ensure that the holiday money is paid out. I'm not so sure. I mean, the government had to be dragged to the trough at the time; it had to be pressured to pay some holiday money, and it is true that the government should. It was not something the government was happy to start with, because there were all kinds of reasons why it could not be done, and then suddenly it could be done, but it had to be only 3 out of 5 weeks. In other words, it is almost a little petty that only 3 out of 5 weeks will be paid, and it should be at top tax rates. I can be a little concerned about the petty nature of this, because the Radical Left will not get their policies through which they could get through by voting through the motion for a resolution. Well, to finish off on a positive note it's Friday: Thanks to the blue block for the support, and thanks for a nice discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130822	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130826	Now we hear in the best rhetorical style that if you decide on people's money, you treat them as children and I do not know how else the rapporteur rolled out. I would just like to ask whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur can confirm that in the last elections, when the Liberal Alliance was in government, the Liberal Alliance was also negotiating the holiday law and actually helped to freeze these funds. And does this mean that, in the rapporteur's own words, the Liberal Alliance treated these people as children when they were in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130907	I am fully committed to the fact that the Liberal Alliance has been involved in the changes to the holiday money system which, overall, made it less paternalistic, overall making it less bureaucratic, but which still basically maintained an unreasonable system, which among other things. is symbolized by these five weeks of compulsory savings, where you have to come and ask the politicians for permission to have them paid out. Were things moving in the right direction with the reform that was in the last parliamentary term? Yes, they did. Would it have looked significantly different if the Liberal Alliance had more than the famous 13 mandates we had at that time? Yes, it certainly did. However, I cannot run from the fact that before I became President the Liberal Alliance voted in favour of an agreement which took things in the right direction, but which still contains a lot of patronage in which too much attention is paid to Danish employees as children in goose eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130953	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127130955	So we simply have a chairman of the Liberal Alliance who is standing here saying that the former President of the Liberal Alliance treated people as children. Is that really what I'm hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131007-2	No, I think that people who listen to the debate understand very well the nuances of this. But I can understand the temptation. Well, I'm a man myself who likes to put things on the head and tease a little bit, so I'd really like to acknowledge that. I like the teasing, so when they go the other way than they get shipped off my side, I gladly welcome them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131028	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131030	Now I am also tempted, and I am tempted to ask whether the rapporteur is perhaps aware that when the draft law on a modified holiday scheme was tabled in 2018, Enhedslisten actually managed to split up the bill. So there's nothing called overall. There was a completely isolated, independent vote on whether the holiday money should be frozen and I do not need to repeat the arguments for it. What is happening now is that everyone is now saying with a great deal of hypocrisy that it is unreasonable, because they must surely be in the pockets of the citizens. But it was quite different considerations that were then. There was a concern that employers should certainly be allowed to speculate over the next 60 years until people retired. That is what has been changed by the fact that a state loan scheme has been established so that it can be paid out now. So that's what we're working on. But it was not a collected set-up solution that was made; it was a unanimous Parliament, apart from the Enhedslisten, who voted for these holiday money to be frozen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131137	I have some doubts as to what the question was, but if the question was whether I was aware that there was a split vote for the vote that was before I myself was elected to the Folketing, then the answer is no, I did not know that. So that's a new piece of information. If I have to find something to praise Enhedslisten for in general terms, it is, of course, that it is a party that is often far along the way such relatively principled and consistent and does so, they also say, at least when it comes to most things in the daily christiansborg work. When it comes to the law-breaking of the government, one is not so consistent in relation to the consequences, so it sounds a little hollow. However, I think that the rapporteur's tale of how to fight for holiday money was an excellent example of the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131223	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb apostates. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131224	Thank you for that and thank you for a good resolution. What has been asked here, also in relation to the previous government, is the freezing of holiday money. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that at that time the world looked different? There was no one, either in that government or, for that matter, the current government, who is also included in the agreement on frozen holiday money, who could see that the state could borrow the money and then pay it out. At that time they had to be picked up from employers and it had something to do with finance; it always has when it is in this regard and therefore it was not possible to pick them up without further ado. Then things have changed; we've got the corona crisis. Things change, and suddenly the state can borrow money; they're almost paid to borrow money with these negative interest rates. The world suddenly looks different, and then there is a basis for getting the holiday money, instead of being frozen until when you retire.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131336	It is a perfectly correct history rendering that there are some things that have changed. I think it was perhaps New Citizens who first came up with the idea that it could be financed through state borrowings so that it did not affect the liquidity of companies. I think it was New Citizens, and New Citizens weren't even in Parliament during the last parliamentary term. So it's a good thing they've come in. I don't know if it's generally something to enjoy. But that's an excellent thing. And it's a correct historical representation, at least according to my knowledge. What is also relevant to hold on to is why in the world we have even ended up in a situation where five weeks of the Danes' holiday money have been frozen. It is because one zealously maintains politically, by law, by force, that the Danes must be forced to save up for their own vacation, instead of saying: you are grown people; you can do that yourself. And then we're a little back to where I started, at least that's why I think it's a strange patronage. And that is actually part of the history rendering.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131437	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131438	Well, we shouldn't be arguing about who came first. But I know that I have stood on the platform and said that the government could start, and I think Lars Boje Mathiesen has also said so. Who came first, I don't think we need to argue about. The short thing is that the possibility was that the state could suddenly lay for them and then bring them in when they came in, and then it all got a little easier, and therefore there is a basis for paying them. It was not under the previous government that no one had thought so far but it is now and peace be with it. Now we get them paid out, and it's only nice. And we'll also get the others paid out this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131516	If I'm going to play fortune teller, I think the money will be paid out at some point when it suits the government and the support parties will put up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131528	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131529	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur perhaps spent half of his speaking time telling us a little about the Radical Left and our position and about the fact that our influence is obviously not present. I think, of course, that our influence is in all sorts of contexts, and perhaps even more, than the influence of the Liberal Alliance, while they were in government. In any case, I would just like to say that this resolution is not a radical policy, because then we would have tabled it ourselves or co-sponsored it. What I am trying to embrace from the platform is that we also want the last two weeks to be paid, but there is something about the time in the motion for a resolution, and that part of it we do not necessarily agree with. It was kind of just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131621	Then you could just table an amendment. Well, the Radical Left can get it, more or less as they want it. The amendment tabled by the Radical Left to this motion for a resolution, I think the whole blue block will vote in favour, and then the holiday money will be paid. Perhaps I am the one who is inexperienced or frightened by the clues of government; I do not know, but I think it would be nice if you could get your policy through just by tabling an amendment and voting it through instead of waiting for the government to call for some negotiations and then hope that they are not as reluctant with the money as they were last. So I'm a little out of comprehension about that and I'm gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131702	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131703	You can table amendments, or you can go to negotiations and spread out the negotiations and get your way through in different ways. That is how we go to politics in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131718-2	It's a narrow matter to get paid the last frozen holiday money. I just think we should be happy about that. We wait excitedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131726	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131729	It was because the radical rapporteur said that they had more influence than the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party have, and I would just like to agree with them on that. Right now, you're holding hands under a government that breaks the law. So I would agree entirely with them. You have much greater influence and power, and you can then choose to use it in the right way or in the wrong way. It is entirely up to the Radical Left. I would also like to say, in relation to history, that it is correct; I know, because it was myself, and perhaps you can take credit for it as a result of us being able to pay it out via short-term government bonds. So I'm glad. I think that when I can one day write history books about my time in here, it'll be one of the things I'm gonna be really, really happy that I actually remembered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131812	With all due respect, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen, I don't think it was a question for me. But I think it was something, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen needed to say something out loud, and that's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131822	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131846	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 December. For reasons of explanatory statement, we now give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127131910	After all, the retirement age is one of the major turning points that we take stock of in life. Just as the choice of education, jobs and trade changes, the transition to life as a pensioner or retirement is a landmark that most people sail for in their lives. For some, life as a senior on the sunny side lures; for others, it is the fear of being able to hold to the job of retirement that is the heaviest. However, regardless of the background, retirement from working life is a sharp corner. It therefore makes very good sense for the government to set up a Pension Commission. On the other hand, it does not make much sense for Parliament to take a position next week on raising the pensionable age, in other words before the Pension Commission finishes its work. That is why we have the debate today and the government will have time and opportunity to withdraw its proposal, which is otherwise due to be dealt with on Tuesday. Against this background, Enhedslisten and SF have called for today's enquiry debate with the following text: will the government, in the light of the report of the economic wise men and the reports of the three largest trade unions, explain the consideration of the continued increase in retirement age, including the consideration of postponing the decision on the planned increase in retirement age from 2035 to after the established pension commission has presented its analysis work on this subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132037	Thank you. We now come to the answer and give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132041	Thank you to the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten for giving me the opportunity to speak on an important and very topical agenda. There is no doubt that pensions are an important issue both for the individual and for our economy. Pension plays a crucial role in a secure future, so we know what we can count on when we grow old. The same, of course, also makes it possible to withdraw from the labour market if you are worn out before you reach retirement age, because some work lives more than others, and some start on the labour market earlier than others. Therefore, I am pleased and proud that in October we concluded an agreement for a new entitlement to early retirement with Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten. With the early retirement agreement, we are reintroducing justice into our pension system, which the bourgeois people removed with post-retirement losses following the financial crisis. In this way, we will get rid of major imbalances in the social contract, which is the basis for the country's future cohesion. With the agreement, we are helping thousands of people in our labour market. Early retirement gives those who have started at the earliest in the labour market and who have worked hard through a long and often hard working life a right to withdraw worthily before they are worn out completely. We expect about 41,000 full-year people to be entitled to early retirement in 2022, of which 8 out of 10 are unskilled or skilled. Early retirement is the largest and most significant extension of employees' rights for decades. On 18 November, we tabled the bill to ensure that the first people can retire early in January 2022, and I look forward to discussing the bill here in the Folketing next week. The right to early retirement is based on objective criteria based on the number of years in the labour market. The scheme differs from the senior pension, which is a health-related retirement scheme for persons close to retirement age who have a reduced capacity in relation to their last job. In order for more worn-out people to be searched for a senior pension, we also agreed in the agreement on a new entitlement to an early retirement pension to relax the working capacity requirement of the scheme. By relaxing the working capacity requirement, we expect that in particular more people with a partial link with the labour market can be in the target group for senior pensions. The introduction of early retirement is about justice, but it is also about financial responsibility. Early retirement helps to maintain public support for the rising retirement age. In other words, with such an important area as the area of pensions, it is important that we ensure that the system continues to be properly designed. This applies to seniors who have to retire before their retirement age, but it also applies to seniors who want to continue on the labour market after their retirement age. Since the mid-1990s, life expectancy has been increasing and in recent years we have seen an increase in employment among seniors. But we need to think carefully, because pensions are the basis for so many people. That is why I think it is a good thing that we set up a commission on retirement and wearing out, which should look at the pension system in terms of nails. The Commission must complete its work by the first quarter of 2022, and when we have the Commission's recommendations, we shall discuss them politically. I look forward to that, of course. It is a key element of the Danish pension system that the retirement age is regulated as life expectancy increases. It is a sound principle that the government is behind, and on 18 November we tabled the bill to increase the retirement age from 68 to 69 years in 2035. Indeed, it contributes to the sustainability of public finances by increasing the contribution of more people to the common welfare fund. In addition, it also reduces public expenditure on pensions. In other words, if the welfare agreement crumbles, the foundations of the Danish economy will go down, and as a society we will be lacking money for all the welfare that we are all not only happy about, but which we also believe is a basic prerequisite for living in a good and secure society. At the same time, however, we believe that it is legitimate to discuss how the pension system is organised. And it may be relevant to look at the long-term effects of the principle of lifetime indexing. Therefore, the commission on withdrawal and wear and tear has among other things. to identify the effects of a relaxed lifetime indexing so that the retirement age increases at a slower rate for vintages which retire from 2040. It is important that this debate should take place on a well-worked basis. That is why we shall await the work of the Commission on this point too. In this respect, I think it is important to mention that a lower retirement age from 2035 or 2040 does not help those who have worked hard today after working through a long working life. They are the ones we help with a right to early retirement. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the government is focusing on a secure pension system with fair pension opportunities. With the introduction of early retirement, it is my belief that we are strengthening our support for an increase in retirement age as we live longer. We cannot afford anything else, either human or economic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132611	Thank you. One brief remark from each of the rapporteurs is now available, and the first to sign up is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132620	After all, it is already next week that we will be dealing with the draft law tabled by the government to increase the retirement age from 68 years to 69 years. At the same time, however, we know that there is only a little more than a year left for the Pension Board to make its statement, and there is also the possibility of presenting a different form of phasing-in of a higher retirement age; there is also a more relaxed possibility in the terms of reference given to the Pension Board. What, though, is the reason why, when we are talking about raising the retirement age from 68 years to 69 years in 2035, the government insists that we should deal with an increase in retirement age as early as next week, a year before the report from the Pension Commission is made? What, then, was the point of the whole thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132700	Well, what we have asked the Pension Board to investigate is, of course, whether there can be a more relaxed indexation of pensionable age from after 2040. So that means that the recommendations that the Pension Commission has to give to the parties of the Folketing and the government are not linked to it, what can be said, derived from the welfare agreement, which is that we regulate retirement age in line with life expectancy. And we have always said very clearly, both as a social democracy and the times we have been in government since 2006, that we regard the welfare agreement as a strong foundation in guaranteeing the future that we also have a welfare society in the future. What is important is also for us that it is linked and that there must be popular support behind the welfare agreement, and we only ensure this by ensuring that people who have started early in the labour market and have had a long and hard working life can withdraw earlier. And I believe that we have taken a very, very significant step towards the agreement on early retirement rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132802	Thank you. No one else has signed in here, so we thank the Minister. Then we move on to the round of negotiations, and that is according to the general rules for short remarks. The first thing we need to wear is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127132819	Today we have to discuss higher retirement age, not for politicians, no, no, no, no, and not for people with such high incomes that they themselves decide when they choose to retire, but we must discuss the conditions that apply to everyone else. The so-called welfare reconciliation from 2006 dictates that every extra average year of life should be moved to working years. Well, isn't it well to have some good years as a senior, where health is still sufficient to be active with the family and have leisure interests? This unusual phase-in of a longer working life gives Denmark Europe's highest retirement age. Well, that's the only responsible thing we hear all the time. For whom and for what? I ask. TrygFonden's security reading shows that 39 per cent. of the unskilled in the 1950s are concerned about their health. The study shows that losing your ability to work is the most insecurity affecting the quality of life. No economist who bases his calculations on twisting, pressing and threatening the last theoretical ability of a 75-year-old craftsman must teach me anything about responsibility or social responsibility. Seniors need security; the more elderly work voluntarily after retirement age, and that is good when it happens at their choice. But inequality is getting worse as the retirement age increases. Today, there are 7.6 years of difference in life expectancy when we look at a 30-year-old unskilled with a 30-year-old with a long higher education, and inequality and difference are growing. I see them before me, the economists, the calculators, the accountants, who sit with spare sleeves at raise-sun tables. With sunglasses, blinds and small caps, they protect their eyes from the cutting light of reality outside. On excelark, they move numbers around, so you end up with a lot of money for the state. They have found cleverly that those who have at least the least that those who work the most must work even more. And then they pull arrogantly on the shoulders of people who have got caught in the door on their way out of the labour market. But even people who just have a fleeting knowledge of reality in the workplace know very well that a 75-year-old carpenter's turn does not just continue to crawl around on the roof, that older nurses cannot tumble heavy patients, and that social workers cannot infinity work under pressure from large case piles. There must be a lot of money in the Treasury, and a higher retirement age can be one of the tools. So let us go further along the way of volunteering, make it attractive for seniors to stay on the job, and this means that employers and, to a large extent, public employers must take far greater account of the individual employee. Money in the box will also come if we do not leave tens of thousands outside the labour market. Yes, today there are only 70,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 29 who do not have an education, are not in education or do not have a job. For many reasons, we must concentrate our efforts on these tens of thousands of people entering education and jobs. And apparently we want older people to work even more, while over 10,000 young people are looking for internships. A bad working environment costs society billions of dollars each year in addition to human costs. We're talking so much about epidemics this time. But for years we have seen a real stress epidemic spreading, and it throws sick reports of itself into showers. Many unskilled people in the future find it difficult to fit into the new jobs that are fortunately on the way. Upskilling provides both a skilled and a flexible workforce and provides money both to companies and to society. Many fear not to endure the season, to put it that way, at work, and insecurity seeps into tens of thousands of homes as a hideous mark of a hard working life. Many worn out citizens desperately look for emergency exits to a decent life, but too many expect a life as a proletarian in senior years. The privileged float as usual upstairs like cork stoppers. People with high wages and soft hands manage; golf courses, senior high schools and travel abroad await. But just blindly raising the retirement age for everyone is not the way. Finally, let me read out the Enhedslisten and SF's proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the phasing-in of the increasing retirement age in relation to the 2006 welfare settlement where every additional average year of life is converted into working year is unacceptable. Many fear that they can only retire when they are completely worn out after a long working life. It is possible to choose ways other than the extreme automatic increase in retirement age. Several Federation Presidents call for the Pension Commission to work and to postpone the planned increase in retirement age. Parliament therefore calls on the government to postpone the examination of the bill to raise the retirement age to 69 years, until the outcome of the Commission's work is available. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133353	Thank you. The read-out proposal for adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133402	Thank you. I think that speech deserved a single comment. It was well written, and Mr. Karsten Hønge is very good at finding the language flowers. Could Mr. Karsten Hønge does not explain to me where to find the billions and billions if you do not want to set the retirement age up to 69 years? For the billions were to go to welfare, in other words, exactly the welfare that Mr. Karsten Hønge talks about in his speech; it has to be financed qua the fact that we are raising the retirement age to 69 years by supporting, as we do in the Left, a proposal coming from the government here next week. So what kind of welfare should we not have if we do not support an increase in the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133504	I mean, I tried to make a few suggestions in my rapporteur's speech to the best of my ability. But as a collection, I would like to say first of all that welfare is also to have some dignified years as a senior. So in itself it is a welfare benefit that you actually have the opportunity to have some good, healthy years as a senior. Secondly, I think it is obvious to point out some things that lie right in front of us. And it is sometimes the case that if you look blindly at raising the retirement age, you do not do enough about the things that lie right in front of us and that may be a little harder to do about, but as there are various other good arguments in favour, apart from the fact that they bring billions. This is among other things. a healthy and safe working environment. Every year it costs society, it's 60-70 billion. kr.? It is, among other things, that we have 70,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 29 who are not doing anything; that we have a stress epidemic that is spreading and where the public sector can also take the lead; and that we can make it easier and more designed for the individual to continue for some years after retirement if companies, including public companies, are playing along.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133602	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133603	But I basically agree with these things: that we must improve the working environment, that we must get young people going, that we must ensure that it is attractive to continue working, even when we have reached retirement age. It is therefore surprising that the SF voted against a proposal which was then under consideration this spring on precisely this issue of supporting seniors' continuing to work. But that does not change the fact that we are talking about so many billions of dollars here!
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133650	In other words, what the SF voted against was the quite, I think, exorbitant prize that was given to some people who had continued to work, and it was a minimal job offer that was made out of it. Well, it was the most expensive people you could ask to stay in the labour market; it was the ones you wanted to spend that money on. For it turned out in the calculations that it almost did not provide any job offer, but that it cost hundreds of millions of kroner in return. For me, it is just so strange that it is said that it is important that we let the elderly work longer while we have 10,000 looking for internships; that we let the elderly work longer, while 70,000 between 15 and 29 years of age do not have an education or a job; that we let the elderly work longer while at the same time we look at the fact that, for example, a stress epidemic is spreading and thus throws out sick reports, in droves. I also think that a swelling of the real retirement age is okay, so it's okay that you raise it if you motivate people to stay there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133742	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133744	I have to follow up on that, because I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge in that a better retirement is also well-being, and that is why I am so happy that SF helped to get the right to an early pension, which we should have a good party on Tuesday. I'm super happy about that. However, the rapporteur also has to recognise that while we are getting better welfare and that the retirement age is not being raised in the same way as in the past, there is therefore a two-digit billion amount, and here the SF has to point out where that money is to come from. I have to ask: is it in the public sector, is it in the area of children that that money is to be found or where is it? Because that's what we're talking about. That is also why the welfare settlement was made at the time. Because there is money involved in this, and so the rapporteur and the SF cannot avoid it. There you simply have to make a bid. It's just too easy just to stand and bring all sorts of language flowers; you have to make a bid for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133842	I know the trap that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has fallen in here. I can tell from the carpenter's trade. If all the tools you have are a hammer, all you can see is nails. That's all you can see. But the only thing is that the many billions for welfare are so many opportunities to pick up elsewhere, but one has been blinded by the fact that it has to be through an increase in the retirement age. The money's in billions other places. The risk of this is to make people's lives difficult and insecure by raising their retirement age, and then to ignore the obvious challenges that lie ahead of us and which need to be solved, both in order to get money home, but also, above all, in order to enable these people to have a better life. Then we also say that one of the options is not that I see great opportunities in which to do so, and that can be done by making companies be much better at giving seniors the opportunity to have a working life that suits their lives. In this case, the public authorities could appropriately take the lead in what it does not do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133946	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127133946-2	The rapporteur is completely out of the question. Yes, a craftsman has a hammer, but there is also a screwdriver, there is an umbraco wrench, there is a wrench, and there is a sledgehammer. He knows exactly what he needs the different tools for, depending on what he's going to do. Why doesn't the SF know what they want here? When they say that they want to, why doesn't SF say it's not the hammer we need; it's the wrench, it's the screwdriver? SF must know where it is you want to save when you know that there is so much money involved in it. We have to answer that to the electorate and to the trade union movement, which says this seriously. You're like a serious party, what I definitely see SF as, have to make a bid for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134026	As far as the trade union movement is concerned, I do not really know, but we shall return to what the trade union movement thinks about this. I'll give it to you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen fine opportunity to answer later. You or at least 3F have among other things. through full page ads this week just shown what they think about it. Three federations have come together. So it is certainly not possible to take the trade union movement to account for it, but we shall come back to that. I'm just saying, again, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's question to me reveals this blindness to the fact that there are other possibilities. Because there is exactly what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says all kinds of tools other than the hammer. There's the screwdriver and the umbraco wrench. There are all sorts of other things, and these are some of the tools I pointed out in relation to the many young people who are outside the labour market and the many older people who are not given the opportunity to adapt their working lives by having a flexible employer. There are many opportunities to increase employment and thus increase revenue for the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134110	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134111	Thank you. That was a very fine and picturesque speech made by the rapporteur. I just don't think there was an answer to the questions that Mr. Hans Andersen and the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. I mean, where is it you want to save this two-digit billions of money on exactly welfare? That is what it is going to cost us; we have to face that, and I hope that the SF's rapporteur will recognise that too. Is it the children, is it the day institutions, is it our caring staff for the very elderly? Is that the green switch? It's gonna be sir. Karsten Hønge has to put words on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134156	I do not have to admit at all that the reality is as Mrs Samira Nawa says it is not at all. On the contrary, I am astonished that one can, as it were, believe that by asking the same question several times, one can get me in the direction of saying no to the merely slavish and automatic introduction of every average extra year of life being transferred to working years, then the answer must be that we have to cut down on kindergartens. That is not the reality, because one could look at other opportunities that increase the state's income, for example by allowing people to be motivated by voluntaryness and actually work longer in their working lives, and that we have a safe and healthy working environment that actually makes it possible to save them here, it is 60 billion. DKK, a bad working environment costs a year plus that it then releases a lot of extra labor. I think Mrs Samira Nawa is also very convinced of that: we have 70,000 between 15 and 29 years of age who are not doing anything. Try to imagine how many billions there are in getting those people into work. Why not use the solutions which provide both a higher quality of life for these people and an income for society? So the alternative is not to save on children. It may be to get young people working.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134307	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134309	The rapporteur is quite right in this respect, in other words, that we are very interested in solving the problems, both in terms of stress and the working environment and young people without jobs and training. I am also hearing that from the Left, and I believe that there are other parties that are involved. The only problem is you can't do that with a fingertips. It's not snatch solutions that just fix it so you can stop setting up retirement age. So I have to come back to the question: is it welfare, is it the green transition, is it our children, is it our elderly care staff? Where is it that the SF wants to save, as the retirement age is not allowed to increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134349	No, there's no catch in the suggestions I'm making. It's like it's a snap that you just tell the 17-year-olds who start working here after the summer that they have to work until they're 75. What kind of action is that to take against people? What kind of work is that? What kind of prospects are there? And by the way, the retirement age we are talking about in the first place is therefore something that must enter into force in 2035. There's no catch on any of these things. However, in relation to Mrs Samira Nawa's speech: "Snatch" is, in fact, a very unfortunate concept to use, in relation to the fact that people's lives are now being pissed off by saying that they must continue in the labour market. Because, like I said, 39%. of the unskilled in the 1950s are concerned and afraid that they can endure working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134427	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134429	Thank you. Now I was given one of the explanations of who it is that is spreading rumors that young people have to work until they are 75 years old, because that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. As far as I know, I don't, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has not, the Minister has not, and Mr. Hans Andersen has also not said that we expect someone to work until the age of 75. Mrs Samira Nawa has not said that either, and even Mrs Jette Gottlieb, I do not think I have actually said it. It may be that someone in her party has said so. But that is exactly where the senior commission looks at the rate of increase when we reach 2040. Is it not a little misleading to stand here and say that everyone has to work; young people have to work until they are 75 years old? Mr. Karsten Hønge isn't one... I don't think there are many who know that. Some people work until they are 75 years old, but that doesn't have to happen with legislation. It doesn't say anywhere that they have to work until they're 75 years old. That is not what has been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134531	According to the projections made from the adoption of the welfare settlement, we will end up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134541	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134541-2	[Sound emission]... the agreement that the parties behind the welfare agreement make sure to meet and see how the development is going. All the things about the projection, about how long you live, you may not always have to believe. But that is precisely why the Senior Commission has also been set up, and they must also look at how this is related to improving the ability to heal people. So those who claim that young people have to work until 75 years of age must stand for Mr. Karsten Hønge's own bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134616	Yeah, yeah, and that's right. It is based on the fact that we produce, that is to say, the way in which we have otherwise done it. That's right. Now we can see that next week it will then rise to 69 years, and then we will have 70 years. But if we continue in the way we have decided once and for all, that is where we shall end up. And I think it's a grotesque perspective to give young people who start at 17-18 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134638	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127134650	I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten and SF for raising this debate in the Chamber. It is therefore extremely important, and I think they know that I mean at least, and then we will probably find areas where we may disagree later. In the many years we are on the labour market, we as people do not think so much about our pension and retirement age, but we all know how important the retirement age is, and we all hope, of course, to be able to retire at an age where we have the energy and time to do what matters to us. Unfortunately, it is far from everyone who is able to retire at the time they had been looking forward to and looking forward to for many, many years. That is why the debate on retirement age is extremely important for the individual, but not least for our society as well. Because I think most people know that the welfare agreement that was made in 2006 guarantees a well-being that is so important to all of us, and that is precisely the characteristic of our society if we are to compare it with other countries around the world, while at the same time we agreed that, although we generally live longer and therefore can work longer, there will also be people who cannot, and that is why the post-retirement payment was one of the most important prerequisites for our accession to the agreement then in 2006. After all, the deterioration in the early retirement system after 2006, especially by the bourgeois, caused more and more people to question our pension system, which is why we have created a more robust and better pension system by introducing the right to early retirement, which we will be dealing with in the Chamber on Tuesday. It is a new agreement that guarantees those who will not otherwise experience the life of a pensioner with their family and grandchildren whom they had hoped for and which many others will be allowed to experience. That is why we believe that the new agreement has corrected the errors that have been made since the 2006 agreement. With the welfare agreement, we also ensure that there is money for welfare precisely by people working longer when they now live longer. We've been trying to get SF to relate to it, but it was very, very difficult. We also tried to get SF to come up with a calculation of where that money was to be taken from, but it was more or less impossible. But we have to say that the welfare agreement helps to secure money for welfare, and it is clear that if we are going to change it, of course we also have a bill to pay, and we must do so if that is what we want. I have experienced people working on a machine several times during my company visits, even though they could actually retire, and when I have asked them why they have not retired, I have actually received the same answer every single time: why should I stop when I am well? I like my work, and I make good money, so why on earth would I do that? And they're right about that. Therefore, we must always ensure that we can give as many people as possible the opportunity to work longer if they can and want to, and we must ensure that even more people can work longer without being worn out and that those who are worn out can retire in a proper and decent way. If we ensure this, there will be support for the welfare agreement and our pension system. Having said that, it is quite legitimate to question whether we can now work as long as possible, whether the retirement age should rise as quickly as it may be agreed and whether we really have the flexible pension system that we want. This is precisely why a Commission has been set up to clarify this so that we can all discuss and decide on a much better basis. I look forward very much to discussing entitlement to a previous pension, as in very much on Tuesday. But I am also looking forward to the discussions that will and must come when the Commission is ready, which is exactly what we have put forward now. In those words, I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption: The welfare settlement is important for the Danish economy, and it provides among other things. opportunity to invest in welfare. The Danes live on average longer and have better health, but it is important to ensure dignified withdrawal opportunities for Danes who cannot continue on the labour market right up to the retirement age. This is guaranteed by the new senior pension and the political agreement on a new entitlement to early retirement, which improves conditions for employees. The Folketing considers that it is relevant that the Commission on Retiring and Wearing, among other things. look at the effects of a relaxed lifetime indexing so that the retirement age increases at a slower rate for vintages which retire from 2040. However, it is also important that we continue to provide good opportunities for those who can and will continue to work after the retirement age. The Folketing believes that it is important and legitimate to discuss how the pension system is organised. • V 19).
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135152	Thank you. The proposed adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135200	That's right, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that we live longer on average. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur to say that there are 7.6 years of service, which is different in terms of whether you are an unskilled person or whether you are an academic. Perhaps it is also against this background that three large federations recommend moving away from the automatic increase in retirement age. Within the last week, we have seen full page ads from 3F which just recommend postponing treatment on Tuesday. And maybe Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also notes that the proposal for adoption from Enhedslisten and SF included a section that has been taken directly from the advertisement from 3F.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135249	Well, I totally agree, and if anyone agrees with that, then it is me, namely that unskilled people do not live for as long as academics. That's why I've been fighting and feeling for this area for many, many years. That is why I am proud of the fact that my own government, my own Prime Minister, my own minister, is presenting this and that I will be standing here with a big smile on Tuesday. That's because, as a former port worker, I can look at the friends I have out there that they're the ones who're worn out. I can see exactly from them that they are the ones who have it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge describes. So, yes, I totally agree. That is why we need to do something about it, and that is precisely why we are adopting the right to early retirement on Tuesday. So I fully agree with that part, and I am really pleased that both Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti have helped lift this, and the three parties really should be thanked for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135341	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135342	Yeah, yeah, I'm looking forward to Tuesday, too. It's a good deal we made. We will discuss it further on Tuesday, both in relation to the clear forces that are there and then the challenges that lie in the agreement, which is also going to lie down to the rising retirement age. But I'd like to ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that we in the Danish Parliament have a precise recommendation from the trade unions that organise these people who are going to suffer hard during the rising retirement age and that they recommend that we postpone the treatment on Tuesday. As I mentioned, it's also in these full-page ads from 3F, but also from two other federations. Well, it's no use pointing out only that there are such good things on Tuesday. It's kind of like we give with one hand, okay, but hit with the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135422	I have a lot of words of commendation to the trade union movement, because that is actually where I have my training as an old shop steward. The trade union movement really has come up with a lot of good advice. They have come up with good advice that we should not save on education... it's delivered. They have come up with a lot of good advice that we need to upgrade something more from unskilled to skilled it has been delivered. They have come with many good advice that there should be the possibility that those who have worked for many years and are worn out should be able to go on previous withdrawal • it has been delivered. We have delivered a lot of things to the trade union movement, and I am also listening to them having this attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135457	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135458	I noticed that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said that it was a mistake in the conciliation in 2006 that had to be repaired, namely that the premise at that time was that there was a pre-retirement wage. Then my question to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: Excuse me, but then why didn't you carry out the re-employment if that was the fault of the so-called welfare settlement, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135531	It wasn't a mistake in the welfare settlement. The fact that the post-retirement salary was included in the welfare settlement in 2006 was the prerequisite for us to be there, precisely in order for people to be able to go on retirement earlier. What I meant was a mistake, and I think was really, really sorry, and which I have been sorry for many years, was that the after-wage was subsequently reduced. Then why couldn't we change it? I would say that in 2011 I was in a really good mood, because there we had a social democratic government. But then I got sad again soon after, because then I found out that there was still no majority left for us to improve the post-retirement pay. There wasn't in 2011, unfortunately. It wasn't possible. But you know what? That was there in 2019, and that's why we're standing now, where there's a majority to do something about this issue, and that's why we can stand here on Tuesday, and I'm super happy about that. It just wasn't there in 2011. At that time, there was a majority in favour of maintaining the deterioration in the post-retirement pay that the bourgeois government made in 2010 and it made me sad at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135633	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135634	Then we jump up to today because there is no early retirement scheme today. There is another scheme, but it does not cover it, the early retirement scheme covered, and it is one of the foundations for this automatic increase in retirement age to be so painful. For in the past, there was the possibility of simply going on early retirement. This is no longer the case, and in view of this we should perhaps also consider whether this automatic increase in retirement age is really the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135704	It is true that the early retirement is more or less gone. At any rate, it has deteriorated a great deal, so it may not be worth taking it anymore. But that is why we are proposing the right to an early retirement pension. That is why this is so good, and I am super, super happy about it, and that is also why we have a commission and, as Mrs Jette Gottlieb says, we need to look at it. After all, the Commission is going in to see whether it should continue at the same rate, whether it should be frozen at 70 years and what the consequences are. So we go in and clarify the things that Mrs Jette Gottlieb wants, and that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135741	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127135755	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF and Enhedslisten for once again having the opportunity to discuss retirement age, an issue that is both important and topical, but also an issue that we have discussed many times before and which we will do again. There should, of course, be no doubt that this is an issue of great concern to the people and to the Members of Parliament, and with good reason. It is, of course, an issue that concerns us all, and I am also glad that we will have a discussion on it again today. After all, the pension system is one of the most important pillars of our welfare society; pensions play a crucial role in a secure future. It's our promise of security when we get older. There should be no doubt that the Left takes very seriously for the Danes, and at the same time it is very important for me to ensure that as many people as possible are part of the working community. Therefore, our pension system must also support the Danes who can to stay a little longer in the labour market. We must also ensure good solutions for those who cannot be on the labour market until retirement age. In 2015, there was a broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament on the principles of a lifetime indexing from the 2006 welfare agreement, and I am pleased that I am listening to the fact that there is still broad support for that agreement. Indeed, the indexation means that the increasing life expectancy of the population is also reflected for several years on the labour market, and this is an absolutely crucial principle for us to be able to finance our welfare society over the coming many years. But it is now the case that the Danes live longer and also become healthier, and in all possible ways it is a good and positive development. It is pleasing to the individual and to society. However, this also means that our retirement age must keep up with developments if we are to have a robust and financially responsible pension system. If we abolished the welfare settlement here today, there would be a shortage of some 50 billion. kr. in the Treasury, and that would be like firing 70,000 nurses. Of course we can't. So let me make one thing clear: those who cannot work must not work, it is no longer, and it has always been and continues to be the policy of the Left. Of course, worn-out Danes should not work, there can be no two attitudes to that. That is why we also want a system in which we, who can work, work and contribute, while those who cannot, benefit from the community and can retire earlier. I think we all agree on this, and that is why I am also extremely proud of the senior pension scheme introduced by the previous government last year, and that is why we are not in favour of the early retirement of the so-called Arne, which potentially sends thousands of healthy people out of the labour market and onto a transfer income, a transfer income which must be financed by rising taxes and which costs society 13 billion. kr., in other words, an agreement that makes Denmark poorer in every possible way. However, even with the introduction of the senior pension, we are well aware that there are still challenges, which is why we are also very ready to discuss improvements to the senior pension, and we are very unfamiliar with the fact that the government and the other parties behind that early pension agreement will first introduce improvements to the senior pension from 2024. Why not from the turn of the year? Left's ready. Then we fully understand that we cannot simply raise the pensionable age forever. Today, the retirement age is 68 by 2030, and when next week we first deal with the proposal to raise the retirement age by 2035, it is 69 years. And it is certainly not the case that, because you are 30 years old today, you have to look forward to retiring only when you are 73 years old. The Commission mentioned in the text of the question has been set up to look precisely at how we can set up our pension system in the future. Among other things, they must: examine the effects of a relaxed lifetime indexing so that the retirement age increases at a slower rate for vintages which retire from 2040. So when SF and Enhedslisten ask if we cannot wait for the work of the Commission before we raise the retirement age in 2035, it is not sensible and financially responsible, because a change in the pension system is not just something we are doing. The current model is the foundation for the Danish economy and for the sustainability of the economy in the long run, and we really need to think about that before we go in and tamper with it. Now I have to finish by repeating that those who cannot work do not have to work and no longer are. It has always been the policy of the Left, and we look forward to it continuing to be so. Thank you for the floor. Then, on behalf of the Left, Radical Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I shall make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the welfare settlement is a prerequisite for us to invest in welfare, the green transition and other important areas. The retirement age should follow when the Danes live longer with good health. The Danes must have good opportunities to withdraw from the labour market if they cannot work for the ordinary retirement age. This ensures the senior pension scheme. We must constantly look at whether further initiatives are needed to ensure a dignified withdrawal for worn-out Danes. The Folketing considers it economically irresponsible to grant a right to an early retirement pension which is not targeted to the detriment of others. The early retirement of the Social Democratic Government costs 13 billion. kr. in lost Danish prosperity and it pulls almost 10,000 people out of the labour market. This makes Denmark poorer and limits the opportunities to invest in welfare and the green transition. And that limits the opportunities to take good care of those who are actually worn out. V 20).
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140413	Thank you. The proposed adoption is now part of the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140420	I get it, sir. Hans Andersen, the rapporteur is pleased that we live longer on average. I'm glad about that, too. Well, given the alternative, we can only be happy that people are alive. But what is interesting here is the conversion, the raw conversion, that every single average year of life must be transferred to a year of work, when we can now see that people live so different lives that there are 7.6 years of difference in whether you are an unskilled or an academic. And yet the Left apparently believes that you should push the same retirement age down on these people, even at 25%. of the unskilled have less than 10 years as pensioners because they have simply lived a life that means that they do not get so long lives and, moreover, often lives that are much more strained by illness while they are seniors. So where does this illusion come from, that you're just going to, and there I'm actually going to think that it's a jumping-off act... so mechanically can set up a retirement age with the extreme inequality that it throws off into the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140524	I think it is important to bear in mind that we do have arrangements which mean that if you are worn out during working life and cannot work, you can leave. You can step out on an early retirement pension, you can get a flex job where you can work a few hours and then get supplemented up from the public sector, and you can now also step out on a senior pension scheme, in fact 6 years before you reach the retirement age. I think we have many different arrangements that make me think we can take care of those people and we can always do better, but I think we take care of the people who get worn out while they work. That is why I think it is important to say that we have now set a commission in motion, and they must look at it, and it is absolutely right to make a more relaxed lifetime indexing, and we shall look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140617	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140618	But isn't there somewhere along the way here also a matter of matador money? Well, if you think you can just make a projection that makes so many people work on and it gives so much money to the Treasury, what is the probability that you can just keep saying that to the 70+-year-old craftsman who still has to crawl around on the roof, or the nurse who still has to dangle with heavy patients, or the social worker who can hardly look over the pile of files, that they have to deliver the work? Like the rapporteur, do you not think that a leap of action, a push of a button, means that the money will be brought in, while the workers who have to deliver the work are unable to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140701	I am fully aware that we must jointly ensure that we have an even better working environment. That is also why we have made an agreement together to improve the working environment when we look forward. There is no doubt about it. But from there to say that now the rise in retirement age stops, because SF does not want to be with more or they are not with, but they want to put an end to it because there are three major federations that want it.I think it is gambling with our overall economy and the foundations of our welfare society, and the Left does not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140738	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140746	It seems to me that this is a very, very beautiful social policy programme statement, sir. Hans Andersen comes along, I was very pleased with it, but I think it sounds a little wrong, compared to the fact that the schemes that are and are mentioned are not the solution; that is the solution for some, each of them is the solution for some, but far from those who face the problem of being worn out. Mr. Hans Andersen is not that there is a problem in making the mechanical increase in retirement age, which means that the arrangements that exist are already being undermined by postponing them one year at a time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140824	I think it was with the agreement that was made back in 2006 that as we live longer, as we generally become healthier and also have more healthy years of life, we must ensure that there is also an economy for more people, for example. can also get a pension that more people can be treated in our healthcare system. How do we do that? I think it was very wise and sensible that we made that agreement back in 2006, and we have recently followed it up in 2015, so that, as we live longer, we also increase the retirement age. However, we fully support looking at it and we have helped take the initiative on this Commission that is going to look at: can we look at the pension system in another way at the moment our economy can hold to it? And as it is right now, it is after 2040 that you can look at setting up the pension system in a different way, and we look forward to that being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140923	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127140925	The last thing I heard a little like, as long as it lasts my time, I'm out of the problem. Because it's not until 2040, it's gonna happen with the further revenge. But what I wanted to ask was what Mr. Hans Andersen was very critical of, namely the early retirement, the early retirement. Thinks sir. Hans Andersen, that one withdraws from one's job for a benefit that amounts to about a third of what one can get when working, unless it is because one is actually being worn out in one's work function, is that really a perception? Because then we get into that thing with the fact that for the rich, more money means you work more, but for the poor, more money means you stop working. For me, this is very little intertwined.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141016	Yes, history frightens us, for after the payroll it was expected that at some increase rate some 17,000 would use it, but it is not close to what it ended up with, namely that at one point 180,000 were on early retirement in Denmark. So I fear that people who can work also take advantage of the right to early retirement, and that is precisely not what we are going to do. After all, we must ensure that those who can actually contribute and that those who cannot do so help out in a dignified way, and there we think that the senior pension scheme is the right answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141059	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we are going to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141109	Thank you for that, President. In order to stick to it, the question is about the rising retirement age and whether it is fair to continue raising the retirement age in line with life expectancy. It's under discussion. The Danish People's Party will not hide that. As I see it, one of the big mistakes that were made when you looked at raising the retirement age and making the welfare agreement that the Danish People's Party is behind, and we continue to do so there is nothing there; we have not started to want to terminate the welfare agreement • that you looked at what the average life expectancy was like when you were 60 years old and up, and then you sorted everyone else out. It may not have been the right thing to look at, but it has become that way, and we must take it with us. When you look at how the increase is going to be in the retirement age, we now have to negotiate on Tuesday whether it will be 69 years by 2035. You can start asking questions about how much higher we get up. In the Danish People's Party, we have the view that we find it difficult to see that the retirement age should exceed 70 years in 2040. I can be in doubt if you're gonna make it. This has little to do with the increasing retirement age. But we in the Danish People's Party find it difficult to see that you will then have to go further. But there's a long time left. It's 20 years to get there. There will then be only five years to negotiate it, but much can happen before then, and we do not know what the situation will look like at that time. But in the Danish People's Party, we find it difficult to see that it is coming over 70 years. I simply do not believe that it will end with us getting this far. Therefore, it is of course also important for the Danish People's Party that we look at how we can then ensure that those who have problems in the labour market can withdraw with dignity. We have always said and acknowledged that there are very many people who cannot continue to work until they are 68 or 69 years old. There are problems with this and there are some vintages that have been particularly hard hit. This is among other things. some of the vintages that I myself have been covered by us who have started on the hard labour market when we were 15 years old, in the 1970s, and some before and some after that time. It is clear that much has happened in the working environment and that the working environment has improved. You do not, at least not in all subjects, get worn out in the same way as we did at the time. It left its mark, and that is why we openly recognise that there are craftsmen and unskilled workers who cannot go on until retirement age. They must have a worthy departure, and we do so, among other things. With the help of senior pensions, where we now also negotiated that if you have a working capacity under 18 hours, you can get a senior pension. It's not until 2024. But it is a very good arrangement that the Danish People's Party persuaded the then government to introduce. It was the Danish People's Party that was in charge of obtaining a senior pension. It is a very good arrangement and we also believe that it can be developed easily. We really wanted the ability to work to be up to 22 hours. If you could not work 22 hours, you would be entitled to a senior pension, and we would like to continue working on that with the circle behind the senior pension. I have not just heard that there is a reluctance to change it, but we must take one step at a time. In addition, of course, we have said yes to early retirement, because we openly recognise that there are some who need to retire, and with the arrangements that have been made, this is a step in the right direction. In fact, we would have liked there to have been more and that instead of 3 years it should be 4 years and that you could also bring some more vintages. But we also recognise that there is a lack of money to finance it in this regard. So the scheme was, as it has now been: if you have been 42, 43 or 44 years in the labour market, you can be entitled to an early retirement pension. What then lies in what is good is that you can then choose to go from early retirement to early retirement and then get rid of the stupid set-off that lay in the early retirement scheme, which unfortunately was introduced when it was created. We openly recognise that there was something that perhaps should not have been as it was. If you look at the welfare agreement and the increase in retirement age, that is, of course, something we have to look at when the Pension Commission comes up with their proposals, and I think that we will then negotiate on what the future will be for seniors in the labour market. And I'm afraid I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141629	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141633	I'm here with an interview in A4 with mr. Bent Bøgsted, and I note that this is the right thing to do, because there is also a picture in the article; it is simply the rapporteur who is quoted, I can see, also because of the picture. Bent Bøgsted Does that look good to you?). Yeah, it looks like a total confusion. And that's what Mr. Bent Bøgsted: I can easily imagine that we will stop at a retirement age of 68 years. It depends on how life expectancy develops, how health is in those in the labour market and the economic conditions. It's not per. autopilot, that the retirement age is being raised. This is a concrete assessment of the conditions. ▪ Has something happened in the last year, which should have completely changed it, so that you will not stop at 68 years anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141713	Well, what has happened is that we've got new figures, that we've got new information about what average life expectancy is. And since then a senior commission has been set up, where the Danish People's Party has been given the idea that you should also look at it, in the context of whether you are worn out and whether you are ill. The fact that you live for a long time does not mean that you are healthy and able to be in the labour market. In fact, we have agreed that the Commission should also look at this situation. We have also got to look at how to combine pensions with being in the labour market. It is true that I have said that, and I stand by that, but the Danish People's Party cannot stop it alone. We could opt out of the welfare settlement, but there will still be a majority for it. But we stand firmly behind the welfare settlement, and we will of course work within the framework that is to influence the other parties in the direction in which the Danish People's Party wants to. It's clearly in the same way as Mr. Karsten Hønge works to influence the parties he makes deals with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141817	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141819	Now I have to say again that it is simply Bent Bøgsted who is in the article here, which is from 1 July last year, and where Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that there must be tremendous changes before you can vote to raise the retirement age from 68 to 69 years. What has changed since July 1st last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141836	What was in it was that at that time we did not have any new figures as to what it looked like with the average life expectancy. In this context, we should also bear in mind that, following what has been said, a senior commission has been set up, that we should look at the link between living longer and the way in which we are cured, and that this does not mean that we have become more healthy and more emotional. It may well be that you live longer because medical science has become better at keeping people alive, and it is only positive that they are, but we need to look at the contexts. That is why it is also in the senior commission. Unfortunately, it does not come up with anything until after we have adopted this law. I had hoped that something had come before we were going to adopt legislation to increase the retirement age to 69 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141929	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141932	But then, in connection with the combination of the two things, I would like to say that it sounds as if it is a very good idea to wait until after the Commission has worked to adopt the one-year increase. I think I can hear that from both what the rapporteur said a little year ago and what the rapporteur has now said from the platform. That only gives us reason to believe that it would be good to postpone it until after the Commission has worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127141956	Well, it's not the Danish People's Party that doesn't want to be a part of it either. Because if we could postpone it until after the senior commission came up with something, we wouldn't mind. Unfortunately, however, the Danish People's Party does not have a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142011	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142023	Thank you very much. I am very pleased with the opportunity to discuss this very important issue today, because the welfare settlement and the increasing retirement age are crucial to maintaining a high level of welfare and also essential for us to be able to invest in welfare as well as in the green transition. And so it is reasonable that when we live longer and are in good health, we also have to work longer. In expressing this point of view, I have heard evil tongues translate it into the radical Left wanting you to work until you fall down, or with Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Karsten Hønge's words twist the last theoretical labor out of a 75-year-old. But I just have to say quite clearly that it is simply not true, because citizens can then also, as part of the senior pension agreement, enter into a pension commission. Among other things, it has... I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work. We also need to have a discussion on the labour market of the future and on how we work. Because we do not see to the same extent as in the past that you stick to the same industry throughout your entire working life. In the future, more and more of us will have perhaps 3-4 different careers, and that is why we in the Radical Left have for several years had as a matter of priority that everyone should have a personal education account. It is about lifelong learning, and it is about continuous upgrading, because we cannot work in the same industry throughout a whole working life - not all at least. So what we see before us is not snatching solutions, let alone financially irresponsible snatching solutions. We must think long-term and deliver sustainable solutions where lifelong learning is also envisaged. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Hans Andersen from the Left read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142318	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142320	Now the word "snatch solutions" is being used again. Would Mrs Samira Nawa not agree that if there is something that is a snappy solution, it is when, at the push of a button, you just decide that the retirement age for everyone, regardless of what kind of work they have had, is just increasing? That is precisely a snapshot solution where you just push one solution down on people, no matter how extremely different they have lived their lives and where 25%. of the unskilled have only 10 years of pension and where there is a 7.6-year difference between unskilled or unskilled. Well, that's just a snapshot solution. But then I would like to ask a specific question, for Mr. Morten Østergaard, the former leader of the Radicals, said this summer that at least a lid should be put on so that it does not rise to more than 70 years. Is it a radical policy, or was it only Mr. Morten Østergaard's statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142413	It is not one model that applies to all people. We have different arrangements for withdrawal if we cannot work anymore. Most recently, it is the senior pension scheme that has been introduced, which means that people can retire six years before retirement age. Compared to when the retirement age is to stop rising, it is true that Mr. Morten Østergaard has said that we cannot keep raising the retirement age unconsciously, and that is a radical policy, and that is why we would like to see the Pension Commission come up with some solutions, and that is precisely from 2040 when the retirement age is 70 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142456	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142458	Why can't you do that? Why can't you just keep going? It gives a lot of nice money, so why can't you just keep going? The argument that I assume Mrs Samira Nawa makes is therefore the same as that on whether it can be raised from 68 to 69 to 70 years. Why is it suddenly 70 years? Is it the case that one has seen a light from above and has said it should be 70 years? Why not 71 or 72 years? That was a smart solution, because then you get a lot of nice money in the Treasury. Perhaps it is because, after all, the Radicals have recognized that there are limits to madness, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142531	Well, we're not really gonna settle for 70 years either. It could be 71 or 711⁄2 years. What we are saying is that a pension commission has been set up to look at how the system should be adapted after 2040, when the retirement age is 70 years. And what that commission is going to do, I cannot stand here and say, but what I would really like, and what is also proposed, is a more flexible system, which also provides incentives to work more in senior life, even if you are older than retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142607	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127142615	Thank you very much. What we are trying to discuss here today, and which we are not going to discuss on Tuesday, is the question of the regularity of the automatic increase in retirement age as the average increase in life expectancy averages: I leave it at that. This means that workman Petersen will have to work longer because Mrs Splash Splash shield will be over 100 years old. That's the logic of it, and it doesn't hold in one place. There is a great deal of knowledge that the difference in life expectancy is growing in these years: the spread is growing. But there are a number of other factual considerations in this regard: is it certain that your ability to work will follow up when you get older? This is where the expertise does not agree. Some strongly doubt that this is the case, in other words, in general terms, but all agree that it certainly does not apply to all work functions, and then usually refers to different types of physical work. Our different working lives are evolving differently. There is no doubt that people who have the opportunity to organise their own work are better able to put resources in place so that it does not hurt. But what is characteristic of the labour market as such is that over the last 20 years there has been a general increase in speed and intensity of work, which has also led to a sharp increase in productivity per year. We must remember this, because there is an economy in it. As a valve, we had the pre-retirement pay scheme, whereby, at the age of 60, people could withdraw from their own decision. There were many workers who did this, pressed by various defects, but also a single golfing doctor, and we have really heard a lot about him. And now I am not just talking about an increase in the speed of the assembly line, which I suppose there are not so many left of in Denmark. It goes through as a daily penalty in the building, the deadlines of which are not met, as a faster turnaround time at the airport, where the aircraft must almost be cleaned and loaded before it is landed, as more frequent deadlines for journalists in the 24-7 news hunt, as several customers per year. chef and waiter in the restaurants and now it's no coincidence that I mention two subject areas that have experienced a dampening pace in this very year; it could be that you should measure how it was going to work. In addition, there are more sick and more demands on nurses, larger case groups of the case workers in the job centres and perhaps more paragraphs per hour with lawyers; I do not know anything about that. This kind of intensification or use and throw away-ment to the labour force has already had some visible results. In recent unemployment statistics we have seen an increase in the group of over 60s. It is not significant yet, but what we know is that if you have been fired only when you are over 55 years old, the chances of getting work again are greatly reduced. The second is that one study showed that in 2017 it had 59 per cent. 59 per cent. So did 47 percent. of the skilled, and even 30 per cent. by officials and other servants. I did a study myself for carpenters in Copenhagen 10 years ago. At that time, only 20% was available. still working as a carpenter when they were over 60 years of age. Of course, some of them had been given other jobs. They were very much in demand as janitors, janitors, farmmen and such things. It is not because I do not believe that you can have a working life that changes, but there is no doubt that hard working life ends in the way that you are going to do something else or that you are being chased out of the labour market. My assessment is that every year you raise the pensionable age, you send a large and rising proportion of the workforce on early retirement, on senior pensions, on early retirement, on flex jobs, on sickness benefits, or whatever other benefits can be obtained, and perhaps at the very worst on so-called self-reliance, which can cover everything from wife support to begging when they simply cannot work anymore. And I have heard a number of people in the Chamber say that when you cannot work, of course you should not. Now I will be told that we have just made the senior pension and early retirement to solve that problem. That is not my view. We have made some patch solutions that solve a small corner of the problems, and we are in Enhedslisten proud and happy to be involved in those solutions. But as the Minister said, this is not so much about the generation that is worn out. This is not the generation we are talking about when we talk about the increasing retirement age, it is they who are coming after. Finally, let those who can work continue to work. That would be a good idea and then let the Commission work on the whole of the rather complicated pension issue before we headlessly grab a small corner and raise the retirement age. The Enhedslisten is of the opinion that 68 years is more than enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143124	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143135	Of course, once you have taken your time on the job market, there must also be time to enjoy the time afterwards. I really don't think any of us disagree with that. However, it is crucial for the existence of our welfare society that the old age of the population also follows the life expectancy, which for 60-year-olds increases by more than 5 years from 1995 to 2035. The retirement age has increased by two years in the same period. In order to spend the money on welfare, there has to be a link between the retirement age and the life expectancy. This is important for the financing of our welfare societies. Having said that, it is clear, of course, that some people who become worn out may need to withdraw from the labour market before others. Fortunately, we have found a good solution there, a good one, namely the senior pension. It is a success; the worn out seek it, and many are granted it. The senior pension is almost a right for the worn out. Arnepensionen, which we are not in favour of, is more about how many years you have worked and how early you have started working than if you are worn out. We should also look at how to make it more attractive to save up to pension so that more Danes can decide for themselves whether to retire earlier. In addition, we in the Conservative People's Party are looking forward to hearing from the Pension Commission how we can make the pension system even better than it is today. We are in favour of the proposal for adoption which was read out by the rapporteur, Hans Andersen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143337	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143339	I'm standing here with a newspaper article where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservatives says: "Arne will not be retiring early. " So is the Conservative People's Party completely unaffected by the fact that there is this extreme inequality in access to dignified years as senior? So, again, I would like to mention the 7.6 years' difference between unskilled or academic, compared to how many years you get, and that 25%. of the unskilled have only 10 years of retirement. And there must be the answer from the Conservatives, apparently, that the Arne, who is worn out, must work more. Is that really the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143417	We all need to work more to finance our welfare societies. If you can work and if you are not worn out, you must work more to contribute to the financing of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143428	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143430	So, sir. Naser Khader thus confirms the classes kicking down, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's statement is an expression. But I would really like to hear: what demands should be made on companies? What must companies, including public companies, do to make people actually stay in jobs voluntarily? What are some flexible, adapted, designed conditions with which the same result could be achieved in a positive way, namely to make people stay longer in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143459	My impression is that we have some of the world's best companies that take social responsibility and health responsibility. I do not see companies working against the working environment and working conditions. They make an enormous effort for their employees, with all sorts of measures • training, working environment etc. So I think we have some companies that are doing everything they can to keep people from being worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143532	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143540	Thank you and thank you for raising the debate on retirement age. It is an exciting subject on which we in New Citizens probably have a slightly different take than the others; that is why we are called New Citizens. Because we believe that there must be much greater flexibility among the citizens out there, in relation to when they want to retire. And how do you create it? Well, the bourgeois solution is to give people more power over larger shares of their funds. We do this by lowering taxes and taxes, and in this way we create a freedom for individuals to make the decision that is best for themselves and for the family, about when they want to retire. Unfortunately, we have created a society from in here where we take more than half of the citizens' money, and that means that the only thing left to the politicians in here and their goodwill is when they think people should retire, because the citizens cannot afford anything else. We want to put an end to this system in New Citizens. We want to give much more freedom to the individual throughout our lives, so that we can save and then decide when we want to retire. It also means, if we did so, that the one hundred percent dependent group, only dependent, on a national pension, would also be significantly smaller, and then you could make some relation to it, which would be adapted to the smaller group of people it would be. This would benefit both the skilled and the unskilled, who would benefit greatly from lowering taxes and taxes. But that is not what we are hearing, nor is it what we hear from the left: they want to keep the high taxes and taxes, because then we can keep people in this clue, and you can use the retirement age as such a small vise, and you can have votes one way or vote the other way. We do not like this in New Citizens, and that is why we believe that citizens should have the freedom to retire themselves whenever they wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143726	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143728	Well, I'm not surprised that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, like the Conservatives, delivers one of the most classes kicking down. For what so-called free choice means that those who have the hardest working lives with the lowest wages and with the least possible impact on their working lives will have a free choice between either being in trouble or being even more in trouble. It is the free choice that is left to them. I would therefore like, when we talk about free choice, to ask: why not make far stronger demands on companies to set up their businesses so that employees will actually have an opportunity to make choices as they approach senior years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143809	I do not understand why the rapporteur wants to take away responsibility for making sure that people get more money which they can then choose to save for a pension. That responsibility lies in the Chamber of Parliament; taxes and charges could be reduced. And then I've heard about this difference in life expectancy between skilled and unskilled, but the idea that it has something to do mainly with what work you have is a false premise. Because we have been stressed through studies that it has not been that it is to a large extent a large number of other factors: smoking and alcohol as the largest, and which in the studies that are there account for 60-70 per cent. And the rest, a large part of it, can actually also be explained. So you can imagine the story that it's all because of the work, but it's a false premise compared to what scientists have discovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143856	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143859	It's because Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, also in this context, simply lives in a parallel world. And there is something about parallel societies and parallel worlds that I know are very concerned about in other contexts with New Citizens. Here is the parallel world and the universe evidently consists in that if you just cut taxes and taxes in society, you can use them to make somebody perhaps more voluntary pension scheme. But what is going to be missing today? We shall then achieve exactly the same thing, namely that those who depend on us to have a welfare society will pay already today, and they will also pay later. So that's just another emphasis on the typical reactionary classes kicking down towards ordinary people that New Citizen stands for. But let me have an answer as to what companies must do to maintain their employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127143939	I regard this as a pure confession case, in other words, that when it comes to guaranteeing people better pension conditions, more than praising the treasury, the folk socialists always choose one, and that is higher taxes and higher taxes. Most recently, we saw votes being cast for higher taxes on smoking, and higher taxes have also been put at risk, as we know there are unskilled people who spend much. So the idea that you actually take care of the interests of the unskilled simply does not fit. And then I am glad that one recognizes that it is not the work that is the biggest single factor, but that it is actually smoking and alcohol ■ not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144009	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and no more rapporteurs in the Chamber will be speaking here in the rapporteur's series, so now it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144028	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for an exciting and fruitful debate, I think. It is a good warm-up to the two major legislative proposals which will be dealt with next week • one legislative proposal, which is a further implementation of the 2006 welfare agreement, where we will have to index the retirement age further, and the other legislative proposal, where we will, as it were, correct some of the decisions by creating a fairer and more differentiated withdrawal opportunity for those people, the Danes who have worked hard for the most number of years and had the hardest and longest working life. These are discussions that I look forward to very, very much. We have already started them here today, so without having to spend a lot of time on that, I would just like to point out a few points of impact in the debate. I therefore have a great deal of respect for the fact that there are both organisations and parties in the Folketing who say: we disagree that the retirement age should increase as we live longer. It is a view that you have every right to have. But when we have the point of view that we can finance the expenditure we know about in the future because there will be more elderly people, because there will be fewer people to be able to finance the welfare society that we in the Social Democratic Party care so much about, because we know that it is one of the models of society in the whole world that absolutely do best, because freedom, security, justice and, for that matter, equality also contribute to creating the contours of a good society. That is why we are warm supporters of the welfare society, but we are also embarrassed to have free and equal access to health, free and equal access to education, that is to say, when we do not like the way of financing the costs that come out in the future, to provide alternative ways of ensuring that we can continue to have free and equal access to education, free and equal access to education, that we can make sure that we have good day institutions with in addition more educators, who are politically looking for it, and that we can be able to be able to have it in the whole of export, and that we can be able to be able to have it in the public. etc. I think you owe that. Another cut point in the debate is that much is already being warmed up for the discussion on the right to early retirement. However, I just think it should be noted that Denmark is not the only country in the Western world, especially in Western Europe, where steps are being taken to see that there are differences in our working lives. There is a difference between when we have entered the labour market, there is a difference between what kind of jobs we have had. In Germany, a number of years ago, it was decided to introduce the so-called Rentenpaket, which basically provides for the possibility of being able to retire after 45 years on the labour market and if some other conditions are met. In the Netherlands, a genuinely sectoral early retirement scheme has been set up, and in Denmark we will then deal first with next week's proposal for a right to early retirement based on seniority in the labour market. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has left the Chamber now, and all respect for it, but I do not think it takes account of this idea that the differences in life expectancy are the only way in which one lives one's life in health terms, that the fact that we know at the same time is that there is a marked over-representation of skilled and unskilled workers, who are also smokers who also drink too much and who, moreover, have a shorter life expectancy. Perhaps there is also a connection between working life and lifestyle. Perhaps it is important that, if you are a paver, you do not have the opportunity to go to a canteen just around the corner every single day, where there is a healthy and varied diet that satisfies all the needs of the pyramid. Perhaps this is because when you go out into the cold for a whole day and lay the cobblestone, you might also want a cigarette. Maybe there's a connection between those things. At least many people have pointed that out, and I think this debate deserves to be looked at too, and that is why we also think that it should, of course, play a role when we talk about withdrawal opportunities, that we have different working lives and different ways of working through our working lives. That said, I thank SF and Enhedslisten for the question today. I do not think that the views of the government surprise us at least some of them we have discussed diligently, including in the negotiations on the right to early retirement. We are behind the welfare agreement, but we are also behind the welfare agreement in that we believe that it has now also been brought back into balance, that what that handshake meant when it was given when the welfare agreement was made has been restored. For the prerequisites for the 2006 welfare agreement was that there were worthy, fair and former withdrawal opportunities for those people who have started work at the earliest and, moreover, have the hardest and longest working life. We think that our agreement is a good answer to that and, on that basis, we can well defend that we continue to secure the funding of the welfare society in the future by correcting life expectancy for one more year. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144612	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144615	Now it's the minister acting like this carpenter who only has a hammer, and everything he can see around him is nails. Now it is as if it is only by raising the retirement age that we can finance the welfare society and as if we were to take it for believers when the minister says that if we do not do this, we will have to cut down on a lot of key welfare benefits when there are a number of other sources of funding, in other words a number of other things instead of the nail, which is obviously the most important thing, namely raising the retirement age. So while we tell the seniors to keep working, there are 10,000 young people without an internship. While we tell the seniors that they just have to work on and on, up and up with the retirement age, we have 70,000 between 15 and 29 years of age, who do not have an education, are in education or have a job. And while we tell the seniors to keep working until they can only crawl home, you can see that billions of crowns rush out of the treasury because of an unsafe and unhealthy working environment. So, could the Minister imagine that there are other ways of financing our welfare society than by twisting and pushing the last theoretical ability out of the seniors?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144721	I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge must be reasonable, because what I often keep both long and for that matter tearful speeches about is that there are a lot of different ways of financing our welfare societies. But of course it also has a role to play if you use it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge calls the hammer that we have a balance between how long we live and when we retire. In other words, I am completely open to discussing all sorts of other ways of guaranteeing the financing of the welfare society in the future. These are, in fact, the proposals I am calling for from Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. I mean, it's all got to play together. Nor do I think it is fair to say that the carpenter must continue to crawl all the way to retirement age, because what we are doing with the right to an early retirement pension is that we are giving the carpenter the opportunity to retire up to three years before the age of retirement at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144817	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144818	Fortunately, we will have that discussion back to next week, because it is a good deal that we have reached there. But we also have to say that it is good in one way, that we come to some people by offering them earlier withdrawal, but it is, as if some of the scam goes off, when we then allow the retirement age to rise at the same time. It doesn't change the fact that the Arne Agreement is good, but it's just the overall offer to seniors in the slightly longer term that doesn't last. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: what does the Minister really think it means for young people who are thinking about taking vocational training, that one can look forward to politicians being such politicians simply setting up retirement age, that is to say to feel for everyone other than themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144856	Of course, the politicians have 7-9-13, all the parties that have concluded the agreement and also voted for it, because we have a tradition of doing exactly the opposite. Politicians will deal first with a proposal next week, which will give a right to retire up to 3 years earlier than the retirement age. And what I hear from the vocational schools, by the way, and from the trade unions, is that they believe that, apart from all the good and fair things, it is also an element in saying to the very young people: you can safely choose to become craftsmen, because there are actually some who make politics for you for once.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144933	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127144935	Now I have many years on the back, and I would remind you that for many, many years our retirement age was 67 years. Then it was suddenly reduced to 65 years. Was it because people suddenly got worse in the labour market or had become less able to work for a long time? Nah, it was a saving exercise, and it was a saving exercise that directed precisely at the fact that at that time pension was cheaper than early retirement, and when you had 2 years on early retirement, it cost the Treasury more money. It is in a way the same kind of cynical way to deal with the question of retirement age that we are looking at right now. After all, there is no direct link between pension expenditure and all other public expenditure, nor is it the case that the money that is collected necessarily comes from it. I cannot understand why a mechanical and technical projection of retirement age is being made on that basis, and I would like to ask the Minister if he can provide one factual reason for working life for raising the retirement age this year by one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145048	The objective reason is that we have committed ourselves to and are behind the agreement in which we say that, in order for there to be a structural balance in public finances far into the future, we also need to work a little longer. But that happens in conjunction with the other hand it has to be dealt with on the same day that we say that there must also be some reasonableness in it. I mean, people who have started 10 years earlier on the labour market than I do, for example. I did, when I got my first full-time job, of course have to have an opportunity to retire earlier than those like me who first got my first full-time job at 25-26 years old. That is only reasonable, and in this way we are taking a step towards a really more differentiated retirement age in Denmark, and I believe that this is fundamentally positive, and I believe it is an essential condition for there to be popular support for some of the decisions that we are creating the structural balance, and I also believe that it is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145146	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145148	Well, I thought the argument was only economic and not professional. And then I'd be willing to take the lid off somebody else asking about it. I can make three fundings to replace this one. The first is to stop tax havens, so people are actually going to pay the tax that it is agreed to pay. It's a two-digit billion dollar. Then there is the working environment, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned several times. We know that there are also two-digit billions to be recovered if you actually have a proper working environment. Finally, I can also mention, with a sweaty laugh, the roll-back of the top tax reliefs, which was adopted in the context of the 2015 adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145230	There are none of the three points on which I disagree with Mrs Jette Gottlieb. The only thing is that we also have to ensure that there is coherence in it and that the money actually finds its way to the box. I am a persistent supporter of putting down hard on those companies that are speculating on the way to grossly exploiting the community and placing their profits in tax havens, whether it be individuals or private companies. I also believe that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is right in saying that there is great potential in calculating the effects of an improved working environment, and that is why we have set aside 6 million in the agreement on early retirement rights. kr. per year for 4 years to develop health and safety economy as a research field. I can't wait to see what's coming out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145319	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 1 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201127145333	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 1 December 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
