ParlaMint-DK_20201202100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Request no. F 26 (What can the Minister of Justice, on the basis of the 2020 report on NGOs and judges of the European Court of Human Rights 2009-2019, prepared by the European Centre for Law & Justice, deal with the lack of qualifications of judges to hold a legal office?). Anne Paulin (S), Tommy Ahlers (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Ruben Kid (RV), Signe Munk (SF), Mai Villadsen (EL), Mona Juul (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Request no. F 27 (What can the Minister say about the government's future climate policy initiatives in the light of the statement on climate effects?). The title of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100044	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100100	First of all, many thanks to the authors of this proposal. I very much agree with the proposers that vegetarians, vegans and anyone else who wants to cut down on meat should have adequate guidance on diet. This is especially true when it comes to food for children. I am the father of two daughters, Nikoline and Liva, and they have chosen to live vegetarianly. At home we can sometimes be in doubt whether they get enough are nutrients, vitamins and minerals. Today, the Danish Food Authority and the Danish Health Authority provide guidance on vegetarian and vegan diets. The guidance via the Danish Health Authority takes place among other things. through the healthcare professionals who visit newly baked parents. However, the Danish authorities are also quite clear in their professional assessment that vegan diets cannot be recommended for children. A vegan diet makes great demands on the parents. It does, both because there are certain vitamins that are largely not found in vegetable foods, and because it can be difficult for a child to get enough energy through a diet completely without animal food. If a small child does not get enough vitamin B12, it can, among other things. cause irreversible damage to the nervous system and thus also the brain. The authorities' assessment is that it is possible for a child who eats vegan to grow and develop normally, but that it requires parents to be aware of and aware of both giving the child the right food and at the same time remembering to provide the child with supplements. It is neither realistic nor reasonable to expect that all parents can master this, and the recommendations of the authorities should take this into account. That is why I also believe it makes sense that the announcement by the authorities is clear: that vegan diets for children are not recommended. I believe that it would lead to the risk of misunderstandings and the risk that this message would be watered down if the authorities were to make dietary advice on how vegan food for children can be composed. As far as vegetarian diet is concerned, I know that a research work is currently under way at the DTU Food Institute, and that, on the basis of this work, the Danish Food Safety Authority will be able to provide a more detailed guidance on vegetarian diets for both adults and children as early as the age of two. This detailed guide should complement the guidance on vegetarian food already given to parents of young children under 2 years of age. I hereby reject the proposal to introduce dietary advice on vegetarian and vegan food for children. However, I welcome the fact that already in 2021 there will be more detailed guidance on healthy and climate-friendly vegetarian diets for both adults and children as young as 2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100401	Thank you. First of all, there is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100403	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. After all, the minister is following the idea that it is not healthy for children to live vegan and vegetarian. After all, we know that there are a great many people in Denmark who live in vegan or vegetarian terms and that the recommendations that are made are targeted health care providers; that is, there is nothing that is directly targeted by those parents. So doesn't the Minister get a little worried about whether the parents get the right advice on what it takes to give the right nutrition to their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100445	Thank you very much to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for her question. I am very concerned to accommodate those people who want to make a climate-friendly choice and eat less meat. And as I also said in my speech here, we are aware that eating vegetarian can be very sensible and healthy. So we have to distinguish between the vegetarian and the vegan, because when we are dealing with children, one is very nervous that they end up being malnourished, that they do not get enough vitamin B12 and other things. The concern here is whether it, if you make official dietary advice, will encourage more people to choose this path, or whether you water down the communication itself that when we deal with children, you have to stay away from vegan diets. There is a vegetarian diet, and we are then working to provide better guidance on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100538	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100540	So in the Greens we are most concerned that parents do not get that guidance, because we know that some people live vegan and will continue to do so, and there will probably be more. And in relation to all the Nordic countries Sweden, Norway and Finland already have the dietary advice, where does the Minister think that Denmark is related to it? I mean, are we smarter than the other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100603	Again, I would like to thank Mrs Susanne Zimmer for her question. I fully understand that there are many who choose to go this way because they are preoccupied with climate and other things, and that must be possible. As I mentioned, my own daughters have chosen to be vegetarians, and we have also experienced this in that there are some who very steeply insist that you have to eat meat. But we just have to keep our tongues straight in our mouths here too, so that we do not make it sound as if it is sufficiently healthy to live vegan, because according to the authorities it is not when you are a child; there you have to have vitamin B12 and other. So we need to be clear in this spit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100642	Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100643	It is true that the authorities do not recommend vegan food to children, but that does not mean, as the Minister has just said, that it is not sufficiently healthy to live in vegan. Well, the fact that you don't recommend it, I understand as being something you don't do, because you're nervous about whether the diet that the kids get is well organised enough for the kids to be fed properly. But the world's largest dietist association says very clearly that a well-organized vegan diet is suitable for all stages of life, including for pregnant women and infants, but with a dash under well-organized.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100749	Well, our desire is by no means to leave parents alone to random blogs on the Internet. Our desire is actually to be pretty clear in spit and lean on what the authorities' recommendation is, and it is therefore that when you are a child, it is a bad idea to live vegan. It is an opportunity to live vegetarianly, and it must be done in the right way, but it is a bad idea to live vegan when you are a child. That's what the authorities are saying to me as a new minister in this area, and that's what I'm leaning on. And that's why we can be nervous if we do diet advice that goes on vegan diets for children, that it will then seem legitimate or watering down in relation to the clear message that when you're a child, you shouldn't eat alone vegan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100831	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100832	I do not think there is any doubt that what is going to happen in the coming years is that more and more families are choosing to live in this way, and that is why I think it is obvious that we are starting to give them good guidance. So I hope that, even if the proposal is rejected here, we can have a dialogue on it further. But I just want to know if the Minister has any evidence to support the fact that it would be dangerous for children to live in vegan as long as it is well organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100859-2	What I am basing my assumption on the health of the vegan is that it is possible to miss important vitamins and nutrients. And that is what the authorities are putting forward. Then it is possible that, under very special conditions, that is to say when it is well organized, you can compensate for those things. But that doesn't change the fact that the authorities say pretty clearly that when you're a child, you shouldn't eat vegan food you might be able to eat vegetarian, but eating vegan you can't recommend. There you are worried that if you start recommending certain dietary advice that way around, it will be seen as a legitimation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100938	Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202100939	I think that the Minister is a little too dismissive, because the proposal is that we should introduce dietary advice on vegetarian and vegan food for children, and I think it is a good idea that if it is the case that the Health Authority arrives that there is something you cannot recommend, you can also have it in some councils. And it might well be that if the Danish Health Authority has the opinion that you should not have vegan diets for children between 0 and 2 years of age, then at the same time you could inform that breast-feeding can be very important if it is the case that the parents choose the vegan line, and you could advise that B12 is something that is important if it is the case that you have children that you feed with vegan diets. So I think it is too harsh a rejection by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101038	I appreciate that, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's commitment and dedication to fighting the climate issue, including when it comes to diet. We want from the government only to have as adequate and good information as possible, and there are a number of different publications and official websites where you can search some of these things. However, it is precisely in relation to making an official food council on vegan food for children that the authorities are sceptical, and that is where I allow myself as a new minister in this area to lean on what the authorities are saying. They have the recommendation that we should stay away from making an official dietary council, because it can lead people to a situation where they are going to misguide their children and we will not stand in that. We're working on dietary advice as far as vegetarians are concerned. That is what we will be doing in the coming year. But I am listening to the need for more information, and I can only support that, but I think it is important that we keep our tongues in our mouths and are humble enough to listen to those who are officials in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101142	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101142-2	My reflection on that is that you can actually have some official dietary advice, such as... you do not recommend vegan diets for children between 0 and 2 years of age. That might be what emerged if it were the case that the health authorities' information was sought. I think that the rejection is a bit like the fact that if someone drinks too much, you will not talk to them instead of giving them some advice. Well, the intention of this proposal is to go into this with constructive dietary advice, and constructive dietary advice may also be to advise against something.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101220-2	I quite agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that if you want to teach someone something, you have to start from where they are, and you have to meet people where they are. If anyone wants to be vegans, we also have to communicate in their area, and so do we. What it is all about here is the official dietary advice, and there the authorities say that we cannot recommend having official dietary advice on vegan diets, because we do not see this as being sufficiently healthy; there we would recommend eating meat, or at least eating vegetarian food, and that is what I lean on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101258	Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101300	Thank you. So when the authorities recommend eating meat or at least dairy products, I wonder what studies they do it on the basis of. As the author of the motion for a resolution tells us very well, there are a number of studies which actually show that both vegan and vegetarian diets, as the rapporteur from the SF also says, can be fully adequate in a well-organised food plan for the needs of young children. So what kind of studies are the authorities leaning on that makes the minister leaning on the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101342	Thank you very much to Mrs Kathrine on Olldag for a dedicated speech here. I am absolutely sure that a great deal is happening in this field at the moment, also because more and more Danes are choosing to think about the climate. I think that is extremely positive. A lot of our young people choose to think it into their diet. I think that is also a good thing in itself. So there's a whole lot going on. There's a movement here we haven't seen before. That is why we, as authorities, also need to keep up. I am, in fact, open to asking more questions and going into dialogue with the authorities on how we are working on this forward-looking. Because I believe that, as Mrs Kathrine Olldag also suggests, there will be even more focus on this in the future. So it is a question of us being dressed for that debate. And there may be a need to go some skating deeper, but it's some skating deeper that I'm not able to take at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101441	Then it's Kathrine Oll day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101442	Thank you, and thank you for the pronunciation. I'm glad to hear that, too. I can hear that the Minister may also have to go home and talk to his authorities about what kind of studies we are basing this on, so that we may also learn together how to work with the dietary councils in the future. For the fact right now is that the parents who freely choose to go this way are actually almost getting scolded on the Danish Health Authority's own website, where they then instead are referred to blogs and other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101518	There is no doubt that if you want to have a dialogue with people, you have to listen to them. And starting to scold people may not be a good way to go. So there's room for improvement in our communications in this field. I would therefore call for Mrs Olldag Olladag and other committed MPs to put the written questions that are needed to get us all around this field and call for us to use the strength of our parliamentarism to keep the authorities sharp on questions and answers by asking the right questions, so that we are absolutely sure that we are doing this in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101558	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we can move on to Anders Kronborg, the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202101615	Thank you. You have to get used to coming up here, saying hello to the President; sorry I just forgot. But I would like to start by thanking you for this, I think, exciting proposals, and I really believe that the green food in this parliamentary year and also in the years to come will fill much more in the political debate in general. We can also see that it is going to fill considerably more outside consumers, both how few do very much and how many do little, and where we see that the meat is quietly replaced or at least supplemented with more green. There is no doubt that it is a positive difference that is making for the climate, and it also makes a positive difference in terms of having to feed more people on this globe, that we think alternatively about how it is that we set up our plate. When I read this proposal, there is no doubt that it is sympathetic that it is exciting, and there is no doubt that the proposer says that there are more people living in what may be different ways in Danish on a daily basis, both vegan and vegetarian. But where I have my anxiety about these general dietary advice, when there are clear statements from the authorities, when it comes to the fact that if you go in and make these dietary advices that both guide in terms of vegan and vegetarian, then it will be possible to water down the general dietary advice and lead to malnutrition in children, lead to vitamin deficiency, leading to the lack of development. What I am also sensitive to, and which I think should be open to and accommodating to, is that there is work going on in relation to the vegetarian at DTU, in particular, which is actually currently in the process of identifying whether you can provide better guidance in this field. There I think it is reasonable that things should be thoroughly clarified, thoroughly drilled, and I also welcome the fact that the Minister is open and approachable to look at this when we enter the new year. Well, we are now writing at the end of 2020, and as I understand it, this work is already clear in 2021 compared to vegetarian. What I am also aware of is that, although the authorities cannot recommend that children live, for example. Vegan, you actually already give recommendations to these parents today about what to do. Advice is recommended by a clinical dietician, etc. to ensure that their children do not become malnourished. I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to the discussion in the committees, also because I believe that this motion for a resolution tabled by the Free Green Group, if I may say so, can help to get this debate on green diet to get its wings more enlightened, and I think it really is very healthy for our food policy debate that we are becoming wiser in this area. Now I am one who likes a very good steak on Friday evening, but even at home in the kitchen I have started experimenting further with the green. It's a really exciting journey, you have to be curious, and there are some other things you have to do in terms of cooking, and I really think that a lot of Danes are curious about this. So I think we're going to discuss these things a lot more when we look at it over a 10-year period in Denmark. However, with the comments and with the focus on what the board says about the fact that we are actually fearing malnutrition and watering down of our dietary council, the Social Democrats are not ready to support the concrete motion for a resolution. However, we are very open to having a whole general discussion and becoming wiser in this field, and we are also, when there are some new recommendations in relation to the research that is at DTU, in 2021, that is to say, in just a few moments, very clear on a constructive debate in relation to this. So, with the words of praise that we are getting the debate, praise is being shed on this very, very exciting subject; but we are not ready to support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102056	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102057	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the very positive approach to this important issue. Because it's the health of the children, it's about the health of the children who live in this way. A great deal is being referred to the Danish Health Authority, and that is quite justified. However, does it not concern the rapporteur that the Danish Health Authority takes a completely separate view of Sweden, Norway and Finland? Could the rapporteur not be curious to hear what makes them think that it is justified to have a dietary guide?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102128	I always find it exciting what the Nordic countries think. That is also why, in relation to my membership of the Nordic Council, I enjoy the debates we have about the Nordic countries, because of course we can learn more from each other; we can learn from each other. I am not quite in depth about what you mean in Sweden, what you mean in Finland, what you mean in Norway. But what I understand in relation to DTU is that it is an overall assessment, i.e. an overall assessment of the studies and the research which they consider to be the basis for not recommending vegan diets for example. Little kids in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102205	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102206	Thank you. I hope that the rapporteur will be more curious about what is actually behind the decision of the Nordic countries. In the past, the rapporteur rightly said that parents should go to a dietician on the Danish Health Authority's website. Now I am thinking of our Prime Minister saying that she is the Prime Minister of the children, and we know that in fact there are many children who live both vegan and vegetarian, and there are more. This means that the parents must go to a dietician for guidance that they have to pay for themselves. I do not think that is equality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102246	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102247	Overall: When our authorities have a doubt and they actually also have something stronger than a doubt; they also have a research that shows that living vegan life can hinder a child's development, I actually think it is a duty that they disclose it. It is also a duty that we in this House take it very seriously, very seriously. That doesn't mean things don't push. There's new things coming along the way. I believe, in fact, that what the rapporteur has to listen to in my remarks is that I am very curious about this, but we also have to be razor-sharp in listening to the recommendations of the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102333	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102334	Thank you. And thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. I can hear that, sir. Anders Kronborg agrees that the future is more plant-based and that this is the way it goes. But that is really what I think makes it so important that we get some dietary advice done here. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that there will be more vegan families in the future. Right now, it is highly resourceful families who choose their children to live in vegan. That is why many of them are well-informed about the diet, but in the future it will probably be the case that not so resourceful families also choose to feed their children vegan, because of animal ethics or climate, or whatever the different causes may be. Is Mr. Anders Kronborg not a little worried that if you don't choose to accommodate these families and give them good guidance, then will they continue to feed their children vegan, but not necessarily do so with some proper dietary advice? Is the rapporteur not afraid that we will end up in a situation in which, contrary to the wish, more malnourished children will be caused by not supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102444	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102445	One of the things I would like to make an effort to delve into in relation to the committee procedure is whether the information provided separately by the Danish Health Authority, the information provided separately by the Danish Food Authority, to the families who choose to live vegan or vegetarian, is good enough or whether it can be strengthened. I think that is an important question to raise. Then I very much agree with the SF rapporteur that there will be more green on the plate. I also agree, and I also believe that the future will be such that more people live both vegetarian and vegan. However, I believe, and I hope, because we also know through research that we need a lot of people to do a little, because that is really what is going to fill in relation to the climate. That is what is going to improve the climate rather than get doing a lot. There I think it is important that we stick to the recommendation that we have also to promote curiosity that it is therefore important to live variedly. It is important that this large 400-gram steak, which some sheep get on Fridays, may become a 150-gram steak, and then it can be supplemented with more of the green, or you mix green in the daddy, or you have meat-free days at home in the kitchen or in state kitchens, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102556	In fact, I agree with what the rapporteur says that it is better for many to do a little than for a few to do a great deal, because we have a greater climate effect because there are a great many people who cut down a little rather than a few who become vegans. But we also have to deal with the fact that there is a greater movement towards people becoming vegetarians and vegans, and I think it is important that they can listen to our authorities; that, like in Sweden and Norway and in Finland, they can have some dietary advice that helps them along the right path. That is just what I want to say here, and I hope we can continue to do so, despite the fact that this proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102633	That is precisely why I am saying that I welcome the fact that DTU is actually engaged in a research that they can present in 2021 and that I also welcome the fact that our new Minister for Food says he is very open to looking at the vegetarian part already in 2021. Now it's three weeks until we can write 2021. So that is just about the moment, and that is where I am choosing a pragmatic approach to it, where I would just like to have the opportunity to see what is actually coming from DTU. I think that is very important from the point of view of the forthcoming debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102712	Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102713	Thank you so much. When you google vegan food for children, you have to go all the way on page 3 to find the Danish Health Authority's website. This means that parents who want to provide their children with vegan food consult on a wide range of other websites which go significantly more constructively to the task. There may be recipes. And I can see that there is advice on vitamin B12 and vitamin D. There are also recipes for how children can get enough energy. So my question to the rapporteur is really just whether it is not a problem. Well, Google's designed so that it's per. search hit, i.e. how many people actually break up here. Isn't it a problem that vegan parents de facto avoid, as we can see, the Health Authority's website, because it starts by not recommending this type of diet?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102809	Now I don't want to make myself an expert on google searches and how the hits come up and what pages they're on. In fact, I also have doubts as to whether we can arrange legislation to take that into account. However, as I indicated to Susanne Zimmer, I would like to delve further into the committee procedure as to whether the guidance which is then provided by the Danish Food Authority and the health authorities is good enough for those who have chosen an alternative choice. I think it is reasonable to discuss this matter. What I understand is that we are afraid that new dietary advice will water down established dietary advice. However, you will actually guide the families individually who want to live in an alternative way from the two agencies, the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Food Authority. And I think it is obvious that we are becoming wiser. Is that advice good enough? For all the other things being equal, it must be the authorities that are the best to seek our advice from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102908	Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102909	Yes, we in the Radical Left believe it should be. And now the rapporteur has been the food rapporteur, a little longer than the Minister has been the Minister for Food, so the rapporteur knows that we are talking primarily about vitamin D, and we are also talking about enough energy. As a vegan you can actually get enough energy here we're talking about joules, it could be French bread and jelly, it's actually vegan. Inside the Danish Health Authority's website you get a warning, and then you get to know that you have to remember to give your child enough energy, and then you have to give it enough of these two types of vitamins. It's really exactly the same advice you get on all sorts of other websites about vegan diets that come before this page, but where it's in a tone and a form of communication that is actually constructive. Could you not work towards that direction, including on the Danish Health Authority's website?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102959	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202102959-2	Well, I think we can have a good talk about this and get it drilled out in committee. What I would like to arrest is what the rapporteur is doing. We have a good dialogue here, but we are dealing with children. These are children we're dealing with. There are some clear guidelines, or at least there are the statements that have come from DTU, where I understand that you collect everything and make some recommendations, and where you say that you actually have a fear that if you live vegan, it can mean that you do not get vitamins and that it can mean malnutrition etc. This is certainly something that I choose to take very seriously in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103036	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that's why it's now, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103049	Thank you. The proposers want to require the government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Food Authority prepare indicative constructive dietary advice for parents on vegetarian and vegan food for infants, young children and children in general. The Danish Health Authority has already prepared a manual on nutrition, and the Danish authorities continue to say, as has also been shown in the debate, that vegan diet cannot be actively recommended to children. I think it is a good thing that, as the Minister has already explained and answered, there is work to be done on what is going on. In the future it will be more and more plant-based, and therefore it is good that work is being done on what has also been explained. On this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103144	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103146	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The Danish Liberal Party should not like to indicate that parents should have the freedom to seek information, also on the Danish Health Authority's website, in relation to how they feed their children in the best way possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103204	Yeah, freedom we like in the Left. And I also took note of the Minister's reply, as I mentioned before, i.e. that things are being worked on. However, I also note that the authorities cannot recommend vegan diets, as has already been shown in the debate. But it is good that work is being done on this, as the debate has shown.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103224	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103239	Thank you. So it is wonderful that we are in the green corner of the Folketing. Well, we have a vegan, a vegetarian and a minister who has children who are vegetarians, and a social democrat who eats relatively green, so not on Fridays when he's having steak, but otherwise. So I just think it's great. And I'm an atypical DF myself, because I'm what you call pescetar, a vegetarian who eats fish. So we are in good company with some who, of course, want to promote the green agenda and ensure that we live healthy. That's amazing. The motion for a resolution here is, after all, about changing a procedure that has existed since the king of diamonds was a boy, namely that it is the politicians who give the Health Authority the full powers to advise on our health, because they are much more skilled than we are. The Danish Health Authority recommends that children under the age of 2 are not fed vegan, but they can also easily be fed vegetarian. In fact, the Danish Health Authority also recommends that children under 2 years of age, when they sleep outside in a pram in frosty weather, wear hats. That's what it says on the Danish Health Authority's website. The Health Department also recommends that we don't smoke. What is being proposed here is a guide to those who defy the recommendations. Let's say I insist that my child under the age of two should live vegan. What do I do if I insist now that my child under the age of 2 should sleep in the stroller in frostless weather without a hat on? Then they must give guidance on what to do so that my child doesn't freeze. And if I insist that I smoke two packs of cigarettes a day, then they must guide me in which brands to choose. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They do not offer alternatives to those who do not want to comply with the recommendations. In the Danish People's Party we eat pork roast, the Social Democrats eat red sausages, the Radicals drink caffe latte, the Left like to drink beer, and the Conservatives like to drink red wine. How grateful I am that it is the Danish Health Authority and not us politicians who set the dietary advice, because then the people would be really misplaced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103525	Thank you. I do not think that is quite right when the rapporteur says that we are going completely away from ordinary practice and letting the authorities advise. After all, none of us has suggested that it is politicians who should make dietary advice. I just want to make that clear. I mean, politicians need to make legislation; we should not make dietary advice. But we can say to the authorities: you should prepare constructive dietary advice for vegetarians and vegans, as has been done in many other countries. The authorities can then choose to start the dietary advice by saying: we cannot recommend that you live in vegan if you are a child, and we cannot, because it requires that it is very well organised and you are very attentive. But if you insist on it, it's this way you have to do it. Well, the authorities can do that. They have full freedom to do that. I don't think it's okay to compare it to smoking, because you can't get stuck in a healthy way. But a well - organized vegan diet can be healthy. That's what the world's biggest dietist association says. So does the rapporteur not see the point in giving the authorities the power to draw up some dietary advice to help vegetarian and vegan families?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103631	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103631-2	I trust 110%. On the advice of the Danish Health Service. There is a reason why we politicians give the Health Authority competence, and that is because they are experts. We're not experts, and to me it just looks a little weird, if every council that the Danish Health Authority gives has to be small, that if you don't choose to follow this advice, we'll give you an alternative advice. So I think that's a sloppy plan to come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103700	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103700-2	It is not, of course, because the authorities today strongly advise against feeding their children vegan. They just don't have a recommendation on it, and I think that is a number of things. And the reason they don't recommend it is because they're worried about nutrition, and that's clear. I'm just afraid that we're going to see a future scenario where some kids are being misnomered because you haven't made a well-designed vegan diet. And unfortunately I believe that those politicians who cannot support this have a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103734	But in relation to the Danish Health Authority: What are we going to do with them if we are going to dictate what they are going to think anyway? I think that is a slippery approach. I think it is great that we have a Health Board, which consists of experts. So we politicians do not have that expertise. I think it would be really, really a pity if we should go in and say that you should make alternatives recommendations to those who will not follow your recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103801	Susanne Zimmer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103802	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur attaches great importance to the government's sovereign authority. They have the same in some areas. But about a year and a half ago, a unanimous Parliament decided that me-diseases should be taken out of functional disorders in relation to the board. I think that there are many things that are decided in this Chamber that require the rulers to act on that basis. So why can't we do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103830-2	It is the case that you can always have the dialogue with the Health Authority, and that is what you do; the politicians in the Health Committee do. They are also in constant dialogue with the Danish Health Authority. But it is not up to us to go in and dictate in relation to alternative recommendations. So what the rapporteur is referring to here is something where a Parliament has agreed to do differently, but what the proposers are saying here is a proposal for alternative recommendations if we do not want to follow the recommendations. I haven't seen such a change of law before.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103910	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103911	Thank you. I believe that what we are talking about is that we will require the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Food Safety Authority to make a diet guide for children who live vegetarian or vegan not how to do it, but that they should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103927	And the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority are that children under the age of 2 should not live vegan, but that they can easily live vegetarian. That is why it also seems completely crazy that, if someone does not comply with the recommendations, then everything can be written instead. That's the problem. Recommendations to those who do not want to comply with the recommendations are what looks crazy, i.e. if we start to legislate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202103953	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104000	Thank you, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution that has been put through. The desire is actually very simple, namely to ask for constructive guidance on the Danish Health Authority's website on vegan and vegetarian diets for children, and I understand that, although somewhere I also think it should be superfluous from political teams to interfere in how a board communicates. But I gave it a shot, and I read the Health Department's instructions, and then I wanted to interfere. It is one long warning with several red flags. It states that there is a risk of malnutrition, that advice should be sought from an authorised clinical dietician and that care should be taken to ensure that the child's growth and development are closely monitored by a practitioner to ensure that the child's growth is not adversely affected by the vegan nutrition. Moreover, I stopped by the sentence: Here I remembered that I grew up on gravy, potatoes, crebinettes and sea artiost. If there were vegetables on the plate, they were boiled to unrecognizability. That was the culture of food in my home area back then. It was a long way to the nearest dietician or to medical supervision. What's the parallel here? Perhaps the very fact that help for self-help only works if the authorities provide constructive guidance to citizens through their choices. If you are a resourceful family in advance, who is good at orienting and providing the versatility of the child's diet, then you do not seek the Danish Health Authority's website just for reviling, as you are doing now. For it is clear between the lines here that one should almost be ashamed of oneself if one does not provide for the child's versatile diet, meaning that it also consists of meat and dairy products. If you may not have managed the vegan lifestyle so well and are looking for the Danish Health Authority's website, i.e., as I said before, the diet is French bread and jelly, then you hurry to drop the idea in shame, or you visit the big internet for all sorts of half-good and lucky advice. So why cling to this scare tactic in Denmark? After all, this is an approach with which we are quite alone and with which there is no evidence to maintain it. Why not proceed more pragmatically, for example? British health authorities, the National Health Service, which have also produced a guide that is common to vegetarian and vegan parents? Their attitude is this, and now I translate: Dietary advice to introduce your child to solid food, from 6 months of age, is the same for vegetarian, vegan and non-vegetable children. Babies and children on a vegetarian or vegan diet can get the energy and nutrients they need to grow and develop if they get a balanced and varied diet. Perhaps they need special subsidies, such as: B 12-vitamin in addition to the usual vitamin supplements, we recommend all children. That's it, it's so simple. Isn't it really the case that exactly this is at the heart of a healthy diet, whether the main ingredient is crebinets or beet steaks? Why scold and scare when we now know that there is no reason to do so? Let us guide constructively and leave the free choice of lifestyle to parents. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104324	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104327	Thank you and thank you for supporting the proposal and for all the good arguments that it is a good proposal. When you go in and see the scaremongering on the Danish Health Authority's website, you also notice all those nutritional supplements that are needed. But if you only go in and look at it, you do not see that other children who do not live vegetarianly also need supplements. What does the rapporteur think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104356	Well, that's exactly what's in it with lack of dietary advice. For diet advice is not just about saying something about that, for example. I'm gonna joule in a kid. As I said before, you can do that with French bread and jelly. So it's also about coming all the way around all the nutrients and vitamins that the child, like all other children, also needs. That's why we need some constructive and detailed dietary advice, including for parents who choose this lifestyle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104421	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104423	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur. What does the rapporteur think her party can do in order to get this done, despite the fact that the Social Democrats do not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104436	In fact, I think the Minister had some excellent advice at the end that we can try to pursue it here in parliamentary work and get the right questions put. And then it might also be interesting to hear where the Danish Health Authority actually has its evidence from a review of it, too, I think could be super fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104451	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104454	Thank you very much for the contribution of the radical rapporteur. I get a little curious 'cause now it's gonna fuck with words, like... the scaremongering campaign of the National Health Service. I should just like to say this: should I understand that the radical rapporteur agrees that the Danish Health Authority is actually running a scaremongering campaign in relation to parents who live vegan and vegetarian?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104520	In other words, when you come to the Danish Health Authority's website and look, it says above all here that the Danish Health Authority recommends that young children do not eat vegan. It's for me to look like shutting down that wish. If you still want to eat vegan anyway, and if you still stay away at all on the website... what I think I have also explained that I don't believe you do... you get to know further down, that the only thing you have to take care of is joules, vitamin B12 and vitamin D. And that is simply not good enough. So, first of all, you get a blow on one cheek, and then you get a blow on the other cheek by not being properly consulted. First, don't do that. And then, you don't get enough money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104601	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104602	Yes, but I still think that somewhere it is quite serious that a rapporteur cannot say it clearly when there are words like scaremongering around the Chamber. Well, it's our health authorities, it's our health services. In other words, does the rapporteur really and sincerely believe that they are running a scaremongering campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104625	Yes, I actually think they do, and I also think that the fact that the Health Authority's website in this area is so little visited, actually for me to see is enough to stress that this is something that scares away parents who want to live vegan. I mean, if you've taken the free choice and then get scared away by one of the first recommendations is that you shouldn't do that, I actually think it's a frightening approach to that yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104649	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202104656	Thank you. We in the SF think that this is a very sensible proposal, and we would very much like constructive advice on how to feed our children vegetarian and vegan. And we would like to, among other things. because the world's largest dietist association clearly says that a well-organized vegan diet is suitable for all stages of life, including for young children, also for pregnant women. And that is why it is obvious that we in Denmark also guide it. If one now chooses that one's children should live vegetarian or vegan, yes, then one must also be counseled on how to feed so that there is no malnutrition. There are a lot of other countries • our neighboring countries, we usually compare ourselves with • who would like to guide in this. It's Sweden, it's Norway, it's Finland. And we think it would be obvious and also an important symbolic act that the Danish authorities also produced a guide here. In fact, I think we had a very good dialogue here before when the Minister was in the Chair, and I would like to thank him for that. And I also understand that the Minister is leaning on the authorities on this issue. I would do the same if I were a new minister in this area. Of course you lean on the authorities, and there is no doubt that I do not believe that politicians should prepare dietary advice. Well, the authorities have to. There is just no doubt about that, because we do not have the necessary powers to prepare it. However, you can ask the authorities to draw up some dietary advice based on evidence and where you also make a clear recommendation if you want to say that you do not recommend vegan diet for young children but that the authorities also say if you choose your child to make vegan: this is how it has to be done. That is how one's approach can be, and I think it is a more proper and constructive approach to it, where one actually accommodates the families who want to feed their children vegan and secure against malnutrition. Because when we ask about the evidence that is behind not feeding your children vegan, it is because there is no evidence that vegan diets for children are dangerous in themselves. There is no evidence of that. There are examples of vegan children who are malnourished. That is certainly so, and it is obvious because the necessary measures have not been taken. This is because, for example, they have not been given vitamin B 12, which is a very essential vitamin that you cannot get through the diet if you live in vegan. And that is why I think this guidance is so crucial, and I have to say that I fear a little that we are going to find ourselves in a situation in the future where we are going to see some ill-nourished vegan children. But they will not be malnourished because they live vegan; they will be malnourished because parents have not taken the necessary precautions. Therefore, if you look at the child's best interests in this connection, which is the most important thing for SF in this case, then we think it is important that you have constructive advice for these families, so that we ensure the child's best interests, and we would really like to enter into a further dialogue on that. And I know that it is pointed out that the authorities will say that you can go to a dietician if you want your children to live in vegan. And I would certainly urge that too. That's a really good idea. The only problem is that there are very few dietists in this country who are experts in vegan diets. We have a few who are really good at it and know a lot about it, and who have also published books on how to feed their children vegan. But it would be better if we had some official dietary advice for vegetarians and vegans. I am absolutely convinced of that. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I am actually standing here as the first vegan ever elected to parliament, and I certainly do not think I will be the last. And I think there will also be many more vegan families for children in the future. That is why I also think it is important that we prepare for the development that more children will be fed vegan in the future. That is the way forward, and the best way to prepare for that development is to ensure constructive advice on diets. Otherwise, there will be some less resourceful families that do not properly feed their children, and then we will see some malnutrition in the future, which will be really, really sad for the children. And it's the child's best interests that are most important to the SF in this case. That is why we support this excellent motion for a resolution from the Green Group and look forward to the future dialogue on how to ensure that children are fed as healthy and well as possible, no matter what diet parents choose for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105134	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105136	Thank you and thank the rapporteur from the passionate speech. The rapporteur has a great deal of focus on nutrition. Norway has made its dietary advice, and at this stage they have calculated that if the dietary advice they have is generally followed by the population, and if two thirds of the population live more green and eat less meat, then they will save 18 billion. Norwegian kronor. Does the rapporteur think that the health of this calculation could also be achieved in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105214	Yes, if we eat more plant-based meat and less meat we eat far too much meat today, compared to what the dietary advice generally recommends there will then be some financial benefits in it. I have no doubt about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105229	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105239	After all, we are in an age where the climate agenda takes up a great deal and how many young people want to act and want to do something. Many young people come to the conclusion that they will not eat meat. There is no timing here I don't know if it matters; I can talk about this at length. But thanks for the extra time. I think it is very positive that there are many young people who, because of climate problems, choose to say: what can I do for myself? A lot is happening, and there are some young people who choose to say that I want to be a vegetarian or that I want to be a vegan. In time, of course, this will mean that more vegan parents will come, and that is why I think it is a reasonable proposal to travel here in the Assembly, in other words in relation to how the health authorities should deal with it. There are also many people who choose meat and animal products from for animal ethical reasons. I can easily follow that. And there may also be some people who both think about the climate and think about the animal ethics when they choose what diet they want to eat. If you look at what is happening in our neighbouring countries in relation to vegetarians and vegans, there are, in fact, more than in Denmark. It is more common in England to choose to live vegetarian or vegan, and so it is also more common in Sweden than it is in Denmark. I think that the trend will also come to Denmark with a great deal of strength. So I think we are faced with the need for health authorities also to deal with what is the best diet for children. And I really like the dialogue we had with the Minister at the beginning of the sitting, because although it was a rejection, it was not a cold rejection. And I think there is a reason to be sympathetic to this proposal, because it is essentially a question of the Health Authority having to come up with constructive dietary advice. When I look at the Danish Health Authority's website, it is quite clear that it says that they do not recommend vegan diet to 0-2-year-olds. However, once you have reached that recommendation, you might well agree in the same field to unfold, that then breast-feeding can be essential, or that you unfolded there, that B12 is something that is very important. I think we are in danger of parents who want to live vegan, including their children, seeking their own information. And it doesn't work out that you get the right information so that the child becomes malnourished. I therefore share the concern of the SF rapporteur that this is what we can look into. Well, infant formula is not oat drink, and you could imagine that if you don't know something. So I think there is good reason for there to be good and better information about what is a comprehensive diet for infants. I have no doubt that you can do better than what is on the Danish Health Authority's website. Then I note that it seems that some different conclusions have been reached in other Nordic countries, and I think that we should have clarified this in committee, that is to say for some reasons that our neighbouring countries have come up with a different way of advising. I think that is essential. So to come to the conclusion that there must be constructive dietary advice, I think that is actually a quite sensible and moderate proposal, so Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105640	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105643	Thank you, and thank you for your support, and thank you for taking the international perspective, which I think is very important. We should not think that we in Denmark are always the best. Sometimes it may be good to open your eyes and see what is happening around us in the world. Specifically, in relation to the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, there is the recommendation that parents should go to a dietist because there is no real guidance, unlike if you live non-vegetarian, where there is actually a booklet of over 100 pages of guidance on how to live and there are direct recipes. But going to a dietist gives the problem, first of all, that you can find a dietician? But secondly, it also means that you, as a family, have to pay it. And now we are talking about the fact that there will be more and more families that will become vegetarian and vegan, and it is not certain that they can all afford to pay a dietist. So what does the rapporteur say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105736	When this is the official recommendation, it is, after all, a privatisation proposal that it is entirely up to the individual to buy himself for good advice, and I do not think that is fair. I think that in modern times there must be the possibility that on such websites you can do better and that the Danish Health Authority has some recommendations. I also feel that if the Danish Health Authority has the conclusion that they cannot recommend vegan diets to 0-2-year-olds, then in the same text you could fold out what you recommend and maybe fold out how important breast-feeding is in that case and how important vitamin B12 is in that case. So I think there's room to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105825	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105826	Thank you, and I fully agree. I think that if one were to be extreme and perhaps also a little provocative in relation to what we have heard in the past, one might say that if we cannot give a recommendation, then we must give money to pay a dietician so that all families have the opportunity to get that advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105844-2	I can see that. If that's where we came, they'd probably start writing a text anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105852	So I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202105859	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for raising this issue. See, the biggest thing is when you become a parent. After all, it is a lucky rush without equal and without mate, and all the senses get sharpened, and all the focus will be on doing it as well as possible for your children. And whatever problems may arise and what questions arise, as a parent you will seek information on how to do this in the best possible way. I think that's in every parent. It is not the case that one is completely left to oneself, because the comments on the proposal also list a number of possibilities for seeking information and guidance around the other Nordic countries. Britain is also mentioned. These are, of course, some attention points, and the Danish Health Authority has come to a conclusion in terms of living vegetarian. And they're more sceptical about making it totally vegan in the very infancy start. We do not think that with what has been set in motion there is any reason to push further, so we will not be supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110039	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110043	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I was just a little surprised because I think I read an article earlier this year in which the rapporteur said that it would be good to have a diet guide for children who live vegetarian or vegan. So has there been a new water run into the lake, or did I misunderstand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110102	I also think it is good to have guidance, but the Health Authority also has a position on the area, and that is what they want to achieve. And then I understand that a job has also been set in motion. However, there are plenty of guides from other countries in which you have the opportunity to dive, and I am also sure that those parents will typically talk about how to deal with the situation with the dietary options that are now available.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110137	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110138	Thank you. I am sure that parents who have children who live vegetarian or vegan are doing everything they can, as the rapporteur also said earlier, to give them the nutrition they need. Now the rapporteur also referred to the sources that are here, in terms of where to look for knowledge, but I think that still means that parents have to search East and West on websites and blogs etc., and it is not certain that all parents have the time and capacity to do so. So can we not risk creating inequality in health?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110215	No, I'm not so afraid there's an inequality like that. In other words, there is plenty of information, and when you look for that information, there will be some of it that you may not like, and something else that you like better, and that is certainly how you make your choices. This also has much to do with how breast-feeding works in the early stages, because if breast-feeding does not work at all, there are quite other problems, whereas if you can breast-feed the first two years, the child is well covered in many areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110249	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, nor from the Liberal Alliance, and so I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110314	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteurs and to the Minister for a positive response. I am very pleased that the Minister is also suggesting that we can work on this and that the Social Democrat rapporteur is suggesting that we can look at it in committee, in terms of how we can move forward. Because I can see that there is no majority here. What I am a little worried about is that there is so little focus on what they do in the other Nordic countries. Why can't we try to see if they can't do something good and do something good that we can learn from? I am also a little sad to see in the Left that the freedom for parents to choose for themselves is not enough. And with regard to nutrition in the future, sir. Carl Valentin very much says that it is better to be at the forefront than at the rear, and that we can see that the development is running fast in this field. So we really need food advice for the children who eat vegan and vegetarian, so that we do not harm the health of children. Because they can't do what their parents have chosen. Fortunately, in these years we are seeing more and more families who choose to live vegetarian or vegan, and they are doing so for the sake of nature, the climate, their health or because of poor animal welfare. We do not know the precise reasons, but we just know that more and more people are switching to plant-based diets. Right now it is estimated that 140,000 Danes live vegetarian or vegan, and the number actually increases by 15-30 per cent. a year. This is a positive development that we politicians should support and help further along the way, among other things. because of the climate. Therefore, it is highly unsatisfactory that we at home have not already developed dietary advice for children who eat vegan or vegetarian. This means that children and children's parents are not given the guidance to ensure that children's diet contains all the important nutrients they need. Instead of giving the children a dietary guide, the Danish Food and Health Authority advises the parents to contact a dietician for whom they have to pay for themselves. In the worst case scenario, the current policy can increase the risk of malnutrition, and the Greens would like to change that. I believe that most parents of children who live vegetarian and vegan have settled well into the area, but nevertheless it is important that the authorities with constructive dietary advice can help all parents so that they are not left to themselves and to more or less random websites, blogs or influencers. Both in Sweden and Norway and Finland they have made the dietary instructions, and when the authorities with us have not made instructions, they write that it is for fear of malnutrition. This is likely to have the opposite effect: there will be more cases of malnutrition, which could have been avoided by providing constructive guidance. Moreover, the lack of guidance and the differing attitude of the Danish authorities vis-à-vis the other Nordic countries have the consequence that many municipalities and institutions do not dare to serve vegan food to children from vegan families, i.e. those children are forced to eat meat. All this is despite the fact that the Danish Vegetarian Association earlier this year has concluded that there is no scientific evidence that organized vegan diet, which includes the right supplements, is not recommended. This is in line with the practice of the other Nordic countries. Therefore, Free Greens now suggests that the government instructs the Danish Food Safety Authority and the Danish Health Authority to prepare indicative constructive dietary advice for parents on vegetarian and vegan food for infants, young children and children in general at the level of the other Nordic countries. At the same time, we propose that the authorities revise their policy that plant-based diets for children are not recommended, and instead focus on constructive guidance, like the other Nordic countries. I would also refer to the comments contained in the proposal and recommend it to the goodwill of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110744	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. After all, I already signed my rapporteur's speech and thanked us for having the debate. Because there is no doubt that this fills more in the public debate than we have seen in the past. The reason I have just taken the floor is that I hear the rapporteur speak very positively about the change that is taking place in some families, that you live more vegan, that you live vegetarian. However, I think we have a challenge in relation to some parts of the debate, where it is very segmented and, I think, very exhausting in relation to families who still like a good pork roast and a good steak. And I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not share the concerns that there is no harm in eating variedly and following the existing dietary advice, because good parents can also be there. So how does the rapporteur actually view this debate when it gets shattered?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110847	I do not think that we in the Free Greens have set in motion a skirmish debate; we have put in place a diet guide for children who live vegan or vegetarian. And I definitely think that the more we can get to eat less meat, the better, but I'm not saying that people shouldn't eat meat. We have our free choice, but I think we should think about nature and the climate, and that should be my clear conviction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110914	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110915	Thank you very much for that, and that is also why I am so constructive in this debate because I also consider both the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party to be taking this debate, I think, extremely constructive and not condemning. And I just want to acknowledge and sign for that, because I think that is really the way forward, that is to say that we are looking for curiosity in relation to this area and not just saying that it is too bad for those who eat meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110941	Thank you for your recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202110947	Then there will be no further brief comments to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: F 25.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202130002	The sitting is resumed. That is Mrs Liselott Blixt for the explanatory statement (Liselott Blixt We share it a little between us). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202130042	The main and first reason in the case of a new epidemic law is simply that the Minister of Health has acted in an arbitrary and arbitrary manner and has not secured support or influence for the parties that actually transferred power to him when we amended the epidemic law. Although we tried in agreement to push some measures into the law as a covid-19 follow-up group as well as a sunset clause, it was not at all as any of us expected. We need an epidemic law based on the people's rule. It must be democratically anchored; it must, of course, flee the line around which our entire constitution is built, when the absolute monarchy was released, because power should not come from above, but from below the people. The Epidemic Act must be drawn up so that it guarantees the legal certainty of the individual citizen as a citizen of a state governed by the rule of law, among other things. the right to a fair trial, protection against abuse, the right to private property, and the right to encroach upon one's rights have a legitimate purpose and proportionality. At the same time, it must be transparent, or with a more mouth-free expression transparent, so that nothing is concealed from the individual citizen. Otherwise, the necessity and proportionality of intervention cannot be properly assessed. The public and civil society must be able to assess the basis of the decisions. We were a majority who long ago agreed that a new epidemic law should be negotiated. Yet you have sat on your hands and not moved out of the place. It merely shows how powerful the government has become. The voice of the majority is not taken seriously. However, I hope that we will have a good debate which will make us wiser when we see a new epidemic law which follows the ideas on which the rest of the Folketing actually agreed very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202130255	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we need the answer. Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202130308	Thank you for that, and thank you for the call for this inquiry on the epidemic law. After all, the second wave of the corona epidemic has seriously affected Europe, and we can also see and feel it in Denmark. The infection is rising dramatically both in this country and in the rest of the world. I have just come from a meeting with my health ministers in the European Union. Serious developments, serious infection rates throughout Europe have continued. In Denmark, we still have control of the epidemic. This is partly due to the fact that, from the outset, we have given priority and continue to give priority to resolute action, that we are using, among other things. the tools available in the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament under the Epidemic Act. Although a new epidemic law must provide the necessary means of action, it is also essential that we ensure to a large extent that there is parliamentary control and openness. We are aware from the government that several parties in the Folketing have also expressed their wish to do so. In addition, several have expressed a desire for the new epidemic law to ensure less coercion, including no forced vaccination, and more legal certainty. After all, there has been a draft in consultation, and several consultation parties have pointed out the same in the context of the public consultation just completed on the draft legislative proposal. The draft, as the parties know, was sent out before we had had the political discussions. The government agrees. Neither the law we have today nor the draft submitted for consultation are perfect. There is definitely room for improvement, and that is why the government has a number of suggestions for improvement, and I will review them here from the platform. In order to strengthen parliamentary control and involvement, it is our proposal to introduce a requirement for a prior presentation to a parliamentary committee before a minister can issue rules that have significant implications for society, including rules that a disease should be categorised as social-critical, rules on assembly bans, rules on closing and restrictions on business premises, schools, nursing homes, etc. Such rules, according to our new proposal, will not be possible if a majority of this parliamentary committee opposes it. However, in cases of particular urgency, where the government will have to deal with a situation that has arisen quickly, it may also be necessary, in future, during epidemics or pandemics, to issue new rules before this committee is involved. In such cases, it is our proposal that the matter should subsequently be referred to the parliamentary committee without undue delay. This is how it is defined in the legal language, and it is also known from elsewhere, and if a majority of the committee is against this announcement, it must be lifted immediately. It is absolutely vital for us that discussions on what measures should be taken during an epidemic can take place in an open, unbiased and constructive manner, and it is therefore proposed at the same time to introduce specific rules on how this committee should work. In addition, the Government proposes to give the Epidemic Commission a much more central role and to extend the Commission. So far, it has been planned that the Epidemic Commission will consist of representatives from the Board of Patient Safety, the Danish Health Authority, the Statens Serum Institut and the National Police Department, i.e. What constitutes today the current effort group, which the Covid-19 follow-up group is of course aware of. They are all extremely important to have in the future, especially from a professional point of view, but we propose that a new epidemic commission should also consist of representatives from the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. We do this in order to strengthen the Commission's economic and social competences. In addition, the future Commission for Epidemics will be able to involve other experts as necessary. Moreover, the Epidemic Commission is intended to play a central role. We are proposing that the Epidemic Commission should make a recommendation before rules can be laid down which will be included in the system of increased parliamentary control in the form of this new parliamentary committee. The Epidemic Commission shall make a recommendation if a minister so requests, or they may do so of their own motion, and then the parliamentary committee shall be informed of the recommendation of the Commission when submitting it to the committee. The Commission's position will not be binding. The government must be able to oppose the recommendation so as to ensure that decisions which by their nature are political and there is a political responsibility to lift in this respect are not taken by officials. It must and must be a political responsibility for future governments as well as for this government. But the parliamentary committee will be able to oppose the rules accordingly, even if the Commission and the government believe that they should be introduced. In the end, that is where we have the Gatekeeper, if I may say so. At the same time, in order to ensure greater transparency in the decision-making framework, the parliamentary committee will have to be informed if the Epidemic Commission suspends the adoption of rules, but the Minister decides not to follow that recommendation. Then, as a parliamentary committee, you also have to have that knowledge. We must bear in mind that this law should preferably apply for many, many decades into the future, and there will be new health crises, and it cannot be denied that such a case will arise. It is also suggested that the recommendations of the Epidemic Commission should be made public, not only to the Folketing, but generally to the public, in order to ensure transparency throughout. It has been demanded, including in our dialogue with the legal think tanks that have been advisors in this process. We also propose that all notices covered by parliamentary control should be provided with a sunset clause or re-evaluated on an ongoing basis. In addition, the government also wants to limit the possibility of the use of coercion. I mentioned this at the beginning, and I would like to say a few more words about it. It has been a very, very large part of the public debate. Despite the fact that it has been emphasized and repeated a number of times that no forced vaccination at all is, or remains, or in any way can be relevant in connection with covid-19, it has still been something that has been heard and seen that people are very concerned about. That is why it is our proposal that it should no longer be possible to impose or lay down rules on vaccination, either against the epidemic disease itself or against other infectious diseases, in order to ensure the capacity of health care. That is why we are calling for the removal of all the existing provisions on vaccination from the law. My own experience is that the fact that there are at all some elements that coercion could ultimately be relevant and that it has stood in one place in the original epidemic law, the quite old law, has only given rise to some becoming sceptical about vaccines. We need the opposite. We need information and, of course, popular support for the vaccination programmes, both in relation to pandemics and also in our general vaccination efforts. It remains essential that we retain the other means of coercion against individuals, for example. the possibility of requiring individuals to be tested, isolated or processed. It must be ensured that action can be taken against people who cannot or may not understand the seriousness of an epidemic. An example might be that a person you know is infected or who you have great reason to believe is infected, walks around and can infect vulnerable people, and then, of course, it has to be possible to take action. However, the possibility of coercion against groups of individuals must be restricted. The rules must apply to persons such as: We have found ourselves in a particular place, taking part in a particular event or working at a particular workplace, where we know that there is a health risk and that action must be taken here. If these rules are not complied with, a fine may be imposed. It should be stressed that this authorisation to issue rules will also be subject to the special parliamentary control that we propose, in which a majority of a new parliamentary committee may oppose the adoption of such rules. We want to increase legal certainty. First of all, this must be done by introducing automatic judicial review of measures against individuals of the nature of detention. It can, for example, be done. be required to be isolated. In addition, the government will further strengthen legal certainty by imposing an obligation to re-evaluate the imposition of coercive measures on individuals on an ongoing basis. If the intervention is of the nature of detention, it will still have to be reviewed by the courts. In addition to the many amendments I have just mentioned, we must recognise that the restrictions on the possibility of derogating from rights and obligations in other legislation that we have proposed in the consultation version of the draft law are not appropriate. The experience of the covid-19 has shown that there is still a need to have the opportunities that we were given in March. We have also had to realise that there is indeed a need to extend the existing possibilities to a certain extent. On the other hand, these derogations will be covered by the proposed system of referral to a parliamentary committee so that parliamentary control over the application of the rules will be strengthened in this way. We are proposing a number of amendments to the previous draft epidemic law. I have examined them here and, of course, I would very much like to answer the Danish Parliament's questions. But I would like to say a few words about the further process. Our objective remains to ensure as broad a consensus and support for this as possible. It is a law that must survive many changes of government. Whatever the wishes of the various parties, there will be many different governments living with this law, and many government parties that are correspondingly in opposition. That is why a thorough and inclusive process is important. We have already had several meetings with the parties, and we want that to be done in the future. We are not finished yet, there is also a meeting with the accompanying group on 8 December, and I look forward to being able to table a legislative proposal before Christmas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131316	That was the answer. A brief comment can now be made by each of the general rapporteurs. It's first, sir. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131323	Thank you. That all sounds great. Actually, it's almost something I've heard coming out of our own mouths. Therefore, I do not trust the government to mean anything by what the Minister is saying on the platform. I am not, in fact, doing so because the government presented a bill here in September which said exactly the opposite of what the Minister is now saying from the platform. So my first question is: why did the government put forward a bill for a new epidemic law, which was contrary to what a majority in the Folketing imposed on the government back in June? That is my one question. My second question is: why has the government opened negotiations exclusively with parties in the red bloc on a new epidemic law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131411	The first question is familiar to Mr. Unfortunately, Martin Geertsen himself replied to the question. After all, we had entered into negotiations with all the parties of the Folketing, and we had the rule that had been introduced, namely that there should be a legislative proposal in consultation within a certain time limit. We were not able to have anything that was consolidated, that had been agreed and that had been parliamentaryly examined. We had a transcription of the previous law, and it was a great job, and I am completely on the goal of that, but that is what we had. And we all asked the parties of the Folketing: do you agree to postpone the consultation period until we have completed the political negotiations? All the parties of the Folketing were at those meetings, except for one party, Mr. Martin Geertsen's own party, Left. So the Left itself can answer why it came to a hearing. It was because the Left wanted it in consultation. Now we have the consultation answers, and of course I have reflected on them, just as I have reflected on the probes that have been with different parties. It is perfectly standard and normal practice that an urgent request is, of course, made to ensure that there is no majority against the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131516	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131517	Thank you very much. I fully agree that this was one of the things we came up with at the meeting we had with all the authorities. It was the meeting that we took extra time for, so that we could turn it around. In fact, we were, as I saw it, a lot of parties I would say all the parties that almost agreed on many of the things that have now been listed. So the question is, of course, why did not that debate continue with the parties? After all, time was set aside for a meeting that was cancelled. I understand that the government has only met with its support parties. But what is the reason why half of the Folketing is cut off when it comes to making a new epidemic law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131604	It is quite true that we had two, I think, very excellent meetings, namely a slightly shorter meeting and a full evening meeting, with independent legal think tanks that gave us advice and with which we consulted, just as the governments told us about their experiences: what do they need? And how could they see the possibility of parliamentary control in connection with an epidemic control? I have also taken note and I am very pleased that the Left and now also the Danish People's Party say about many of the things I have mentioned here that they can see themselves in them. I am well aware that you have not said 'yes' or 'no'; I am well aware of that. But saying it, I think it's good. Then why couldn't we continue with it? Unfortunately, we could not do so because the Left Party, as the only party, instructed the government to suspend the negotiations and send a proposal in consultation rather than that we could have continued with the negotiations and reached an agreement. But then we'll just have to do it now. Then that must be the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131654	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131656	Thank you for that and thank you for the thought the government has given. What we have been discussing is a very good escape. There's just a few things I'd like to hear about. One is the question of the possibility of defining a society-critical disease. Is the government prepared to ensure that there is an ongoing review of it, in other words that it will be something that will be sent back to an epidemic committee, so that there will also be parliamentary control over how long a disease will be defined as socially critical, because that is what allows us to use the extensive powers? Another question is whether the government is also prepared for us to ensure, even if the proposal is to be tabled before Christmas, that there will be a period of consultation which allows the interested parties to give their response, even if it goes beyond Christmas, so as to ensure that there is an adequate consultation period. Because it is quite important that we get that kick-in from the consultative parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131758	Thank you for those comments and also thank you for the preliminary remark. If, according to our proposals here, a disease that we look forward to presenting to all parties of the Folketing is defined as a social-critical one, then there will be a recommendation from the Epidemic Commission, and then it will have to be looked at in the forthcoming parliamentary committee. If we get support for our proposal • there should not be a majority against it • it will then be considered as socially critical, and a number of measures will be opened up that will be necessary. There I would very, very much like to look at the request for a vote and it is noted that it is a wish from the Enhedslisten that you can revisit, if you may say so, the recommendation every 4 months, every 6 months, and how it makes sense medically. I think that would be obvious. And there is also a yes, because I propose that we send the bill to the hearing. We will meet next week with Parliament's parties on this, and there will be some adjustments. We will then send the legislative proposal in consultation, but we will also repeat the consultation period, because I fully agree that this will benefit from a good consultation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131905	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131906	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear that the plan is also to send the new epidemic law to a hearing, because I fully agree with my colleague from the Enhedslisten that this is important. There may be a great deal of criticism about the process, but I really believe that the consultation answers that have been received and the debate that has taken place have qualified for the legislative proposal that is now in place. I can certainly see myself much more in what the Minister has presented here than in the draft that has been consulted. Now, sir. Peder Hvelplund asked the question I would have asked, so I would like to ask something else instead: can the Minister say more about how the role of the epidemic committee should be in the parliamentary work, both in relation to the government and in relation to being able to act quickly, but also to involve the parliamentary parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202131950	Yes, I can tell you about how we think about it, and then I will look forward to discussing it with the parties of the Danish Parliament and I would like to stress once again that it is with everyone who has no right of veto in this, but our goal is to get as broad a support as possible. I think that would be wise. And that also requires the Folketing to set up a committee afterwards. Our proposal is therefore to make a committee, in fact inspired by some of what is going on in the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which we also have to have a mandate and where there should not be a majority against the mandate we are seeking as a minister. There will then be some additions, namely a professional recommendation from an epidemic committee, which, I believe, can also be divided. There may also be disagreements within that Commission; that cannot be rejected. I think that should also be transparent, so that it is first presented to the Folketing and then publicly presented. In this way, it will be a committee which ensures parliamentary control, but of course also obliges the parties of the Folketing to say either yes or no to the things that lie ahead of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132055	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132057	Thank you. I think one can agree that the government does not get any scam bear for the process handling here. The Minister says that the reason why the government put forward the proposal that was put forward and sent in consultation was that it was a representation of an earlier epidemic law, and that therefore it was simply rewritten and sent out and that it was not really the government's position in what was sent out. Is it understood correctly, or was it the attitude of the government that was expressed in what was being heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132134	The Government's desire was quite clear to be able to continue the negotiations, and we also went to the parties with that. We had had excellent open meetings with independent legal experts, and our wish was quite clear to be able to continue these discussions, and I think good ideas have emerged. It is hundreds of pages of material that we are talking about, which has to go through lawyers and various ministries, so it cannot be done in 3 hours one evening to write important things about. And when we then put the question to the parties whether they were in favour of the fact that we set aside part of the deadline, but that we could then complete and continue the negotiations with the input that had been made, the parties were not in on it, or rather, many were actually in on it, but unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier, the party, the Left, was not in on it, and therefore there was that process. I think there are many things that you do not get scam bears for here in the Folketing, but I am concerned about one thing, and that is that we get a good result of it, and I also hope that New Citizens will be able to see themselves in that result.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132228	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132230	Thank you. It's been a hell of a year, isn't it? And I also think that we owe it to us to keep in mind that the old law was not fantastic either. Well, it was both rusty and dusty and it wasn't even geared to make sure we were ready for a pandemic that we're in right now. I was particularly concerned that we could not get tests or protective equipment and indeed also came to lack medication along the way, and that has been the reason why we had to shut down a lot. So I would just like to ask the Minister whether rolling stocks could be part of a future epidemic law, that is to say that we simply make sure to write into the epidemic law, that in the future we have stocks that ensure that we will never again be left without tests, equipment and medicines, as we did at the beginning of this epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132318	There I think I must be the questioner's answer guilty. After all, we have this urgent question, while we have just received the consultation answers from the draft that was in consultation and before proceeding with the next step of the negotiations. If it's a wish from the parties of the Folketing, let's see if it makes sense. I fully agree that the problem is real in Denmark, and I can say, as I said, that I come from an EU meeting that in large parts of Europe, in fact the whole of Europe, it is a real issue that has been, in terms of medicine, protective equipment, test capacity, etc. We have struggled with this, and the rest of Europe has struggled with it, so it is certainly something that needs to be dealt with. From the government's point of view, as you know, we have dealt with part of it by creating a whole new board, which has it as a focus and responsibility, and it is in full swing and delivers every week when I get the overview. However, in relation to whether it should be placed in an epidemic law, I will just wait for it to be legally possible, but I am very open to that idea too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132419	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132420	Thank you. When I just enlisted, it was actually because there was no real answer to that question, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen proposed, that is to say on the 100-page draft of an epidemic law which has been submitted for consultation, is the government's proposal or is not the government's proposal. So I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132441	I am fully in favour of the legislative proposal that was sent in consultation, but if you read the consultation letter, you can also see that it was a consultation period that was made to meet the time limit that the Folketing had introduced and was made before I think it would have been better in many ways if we could have completed the negotiations before sending it here into consultation, so that we could also adjust from the input that was, both from legal think tanks and, of course, from the parties as well. In other words, I think that what we have now and are presenting to the parties is a better proposal. I think the other one was fine, it had some fine things in it, and that is what I am aiming for, but this is a better proposal, and that is why I look forward to the negotiations and discussions with Parliament's parties on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132538	No more general rapporteurs have asked to speak, and so we now thank the Minister. This means that we shall now proceed to the debate. And there I would just like to outline that, as you know, we have two hours to do this, we have nine general rapporteurs, and we should also like to reach the Minister in the end, and I think that is a wish. So I'm just saying that there are these premises with the time horizon we have. As Mrs Liselott Blixt said, it has been shared with those who are questioners, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr Blixt. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132614	Thank you. Yes, it is something strange that we have a government that is putting forward a legislative proposal that it does not itself agree with, but it has to go through it itself. When a large minority in the Folketing has called the Minister of Health for this urgent question, it is because we can see with ever increasing concern that the government is trying, with every possible means, to avoid involving the parties of the Folketing in major decisions on the fight against the epidemic in this country. All major and for that matter also minor decisions in the pending corona crisis are made without involving the parties of the Folketing. It was all parties outside the government here in the Folketing, as it were, already aware of that back in June. A majority wanted to get rid of the emergency law for which Denmark is currently governed; we wanted to have the people's rule back. So, at a meeting of the Health Committee on 18 June, a majority in the Folketing instructed the government to submit a proposal for a new epidemic law. The code words in what a majority outside the government adopted were: popular rule, legal certainty and transparency. To put it bluntly, the government has not complied at all with the majority of the Folketing. The government has not complied with what a majority in the Folketing decided back there in June. No, the government chose completely to ignore the wishes of the majority instead of this September, so to put forward a proposal for a new epidemic law which, in substance, is almost worse than the emergency law which the government is currently quite willfully governing this country. In fact, in the proposal put forward by the government, the Minister for Health is expanding his power in particularly serious epidemic crises. I do not know with the red side of this Parliament, but I think I can speak for the whole blue side by saying that we simply cannot accept that. We cannot accept to equip the health minister in office at all times with the powers laid down in the government's draft legislation. The Minister for Health and the Government knew this well as early as June, and it is therefore, to put it mildly, provocative that the government has now put forward a bill which one is fully aware of cannot bring together a majority in the Folketing. Therefore, one can now quietly retain power and continue one's willful style based on the emergency law of March without listening to and without involving the parties of the Folketing. And as if that were not enough, I can read that the government now seems to be negotiating on in a closed circle of red parties without including the blue parties. I have to say that we simply do not understand the way the government treats the Folketing. In my opinion, this matter is far too important for block politics, and on that basis, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, New Civil, Conservative, Danish People's Party and the Left, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government immediately to convene broad political negotiations on a new epidemic law based on popular rule, legal certainty and transparency. The Folketing instructs the government to organise a negotiation process so that a new epidemic law enters into force as soon as possible, taking due account of the normal consultation deadlines and not containing rules on forced vaccination. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20201202132952	Thank you. This will be part of the further debate. Now we are back on short remarks with the standard 1 minute and 1⁄2 minute. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133002	Thanks for the speech. It was, of course, good to hear the criticism that the Left has of the government. It would have been an even more interesting speech if it could be clarified where the Left stands. I would say that I have experienced the Left very fluttering, as a small, angry terrier, who first ran on one side of the government and barked on that side and then ran on the other side of the government and barked on that side. On 29 September, the political rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Løhde, told Politiken that a new National Epidemic Commission should be set up completely cleanly for politicians, and I quote: 'If the National Epidemic Commission had to stop, we now have to wear muzzles throughout public transport, then the Commission must be able to implement it. We are not going to vote on this in the Chamber. The Commission shall be empowered to do so. Is it still the position of the Left, i.e. that the attitude of health authorities, for example, is no longer a political one, but that power is with the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133107	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133108	Well, the Left has presented a plan for how we see a new epidemic law screwed up in such a rough way. And it is true that we would like to have one new epidemic commission and then five regional epidemic committees if it is the case that there are regional issues that need to be regulated. And they have to make settings for the government, and there must be full transparency about it. On the other side of the government, we have then proposed the setting up of a parliamentary committee, which, by means of particularly intrusive measures, must have a right of veto over what comes from the government. So we have put forward a plan which I also think the Socialist rapporteur is well aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133153	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133154	I think I am aware of most of the statements that have come from the Left, but it is sometimes precisely the case that it is streaking in several directions and being barked from various sides, depending on who is speaking and when is being spoken. Most recently it was not just the political rapporteur, but the Left's own chairman, the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who said that we should have a second opinion that could constantly challenge our health authorities. What does that mean? Can the rapporteur of the Left not see that it is strangely fluttering that one day it is almost like sent from heaven and must not be contradicted by politicians and the next day it must all be suspicious?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133234	Thank you. Then we need an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133236	I believe that anyone who has been following the events in this country for the last three weeks will be true and I also hope that it will sneak into the Socialist Group at some point in time that there may be good reason for you to have a different view of what the government is doing. And if there is confusion about something here, it is, of course, that the government has put forward a bill that it does not even support itself. Well, I don't know if there's any historical precedent for that. I think it is very paradoxical for a government to table a legislative proposal that it does not itself agree with. I have to say, come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133312	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133315	Thank you. Just like that to get the history in place: Two meetings with among others. The Institute of Human Rights and Justitia and other good people and governments, where we get both big presentations and reports on how to possibly tighten up a new epidemic law. I have listened to the fact that the Left has very many good suggestions for this. On 30 September, we are sitting together in the Ministry of Health and I am listening to the rapporteur say: when the government makes proposals before 1 p.m. 24.00, as the account shows? Can the rapporteur not confirm that the Left was helping to prevent us from having the necessary time to negotiate in relation to the epidemic law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133404	No, that is, the Left complied with what a majority in the Folketing had decided, namely that the government should put forward a bill for a new epidemic law based on transparency, on the rule of the people, on legal certainty, and that we were, in fact, just sticking to that. So, can Mrs Kirsten Normann explain to me, because I cannot get the answer from the Socialist Group, precisely based on the very, very good meetings, where we get a lot of input from all sorts of things, why on earth this government is putting forward a bill that is contrary to the advice that has been obtained from all sorts of places? I don't understand. It may be that Mrs. Kirsten Normann can raise my level of knowledge here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133446	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133448	With a guarantee. But now I have to ask questions. So it is just to say that a majority has decided that a new proposal should be submitted to a hearing by 30 September and that it was not going to change and that it would not help to change and give those 14 days to 1 month who might have been there, and that we have actually spent one month on a consultation which was wasted because we had to interrupt the negotiations. That is what I would ask the rapporteur to confirm, in other words, that the rapporteur himself could have been involved in establishing the majority where the debate could have been postponed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133521	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133523	Well, I think it's something really weird that I have to stand up for the government's folly. Honestly. We all agree on a report by the SF and the government of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which states that a new legislative proposal based on popular government, transparency and legal certainty must be put forward, and then the government comes up with something quite different. I simply do not see that I should be responsible for this, frankly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133550	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133551	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now it is not unusual for the government to put forward something that we do not agree with, and we are, in fact, happy when it succeeds in getting the government to put forward something that we are more in agreement with. Then you can spend a long time discussing process and all sorts of other things. I have also sometimes found it very difficult to find out where I have the Left in relation to the weighting of health considerations versus business considerations. But let that be the case, because what is crucial is what we are going to have to do, and that is where I know that we have at least sometimes had the same views between the Left and the Enhedsliste in terms of being able to ensure respect for both democracy and legal certainty, and for the Enhedslisten it is quite essential that we have the right balance between both respect for health and respect for democracy and legal certainty. If there is a proposal now, where it can be said that there will be parliamentary control and where there will be openness about the decision-making processes and where we ensure judicial review of all coercive measures, will this be an agreement in which the Left will be able to see itself? Because it is, of course, like the crucial thing, that we get a new epidemic law, which we can be behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133655	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133656	Basically, I've been worried because I've been so in agreement with Mr. Peder Hvelplund through a lot of this, but leave it alone. The devil is, to the best of my knowledge, in the detail when we deal with this government. But if the model is, as I can hear it being outlined, that it is about more parliamentary control, more legal certainty, more transparency, then it is a negotiating room in which the Left can see itself. Well, that's what Mr. Peder Hvelplund and the Left a long way along the road in the course of which we have, after all, bombed our way across has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133732	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133734	However, does the rapporteur also agree that if we now make such a model in which we imagine that there will be recommendations from health authorities or an epidemic committee, and then there will be a parliamentary body to approve it, then it will be difficult to start operating with second opinion and all kinds of other models, because then the model lies in the fact that we get a recommendation and that we have the opportunity to take political responsibility for the decision that will then be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133802	It depends a little on what we agree on, compared to who it is that should sit in that epidemic commission. In other words, I would say that a second opinion is first and foremost something we have proposed, because we have been able to see over the last few months that there was a need for some people to look over the shoulder of the government, who might not just be the government itself. But again, in general terms, I can see myself in the same model as Mr. Peder Hvelplund can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133830	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133832	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I think, when I listen to the rapporteur here, that not so much separates if you just look below the surface of the little more, what can you say, prosaic outbursts that come. So at least I'm confident. But I would like to hear Mr. Martin Geertsen say a little more about what he sees in a future epidemic law, especially in relation to this epidemic commission. Sir. Martin Geertsen mentions that it depends on who's in it. So who does Mr. Martin Geertsen should be on this epidemic commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202133906	Nevertheless, I think it is a little important to round up the issue of why a government is putting forward a legislative proposal that it does not itself agree with. Let it go. We have said, in a way, that we want there to be more competences in a national epidemic commission. Of course, there must be health professional competence, that is to say, the health authorities must of course have a place in a future epidemic commission. But we also imagine that there are other competences, i.e. financial competences, legal competences, and that there may be more to it. If we want to do so, it is because, through the course we have been through over the last 6-8 months, we have lacked transparency in relation to proportionality, and I think the radical rapporteur agrees with that. In other words, the transparency of what has come from health authorities based on a health professional basis has been difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134005	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134006	Thank you. I think that sounds incredibly reasonable. Again, I'm very happy to hear that. Can I have sir? Martin Geertsen to say a little more about the Left's thoughts when it comes to when to activate an epidemic law and when to end it again? In other words, what criteria does the rapporteur see in relation to when a disease is of a nature in which the law is to be activated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134029	In other words, we have been more concerned about when it is that the people's regime, if I may say so, enters the stage, and that is our approach to it, that when there are particularly intrusive measures in relation to the freedoms of the individual and the Danes, the Folketing must have a decisive say and I do not know if we can say that in this high room but a decisive influence on what is going on in the fight against epidemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134103	I would just like to point out quietly that we know that in these debates we have about 15 brief comments. We have used four of them in connection with the first speaker, and Mrs Lund has also asked for the floor, and we will at least stop here. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134118	For the sake of time, I must be very brief and just ask the Left whether specific rules on access to documents should apply when we make a new epidemic law. It is, of course, the case that there is quite a lot of secrecy about our administration, and now Mr. Martin Geertsen himself and talking about transparency and transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134136	Yes, well, we have said that, in particular, when there is a health professional attitude or when there is a recommendation from the epidemic commission to the government in an epidemic situation, there must be full transparency and transparency in relation to what attitude comes and who has meant what in that epidemic commission. So we have made that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134201	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134201-2	So, contrary to questions about the Public Service Act, can we here count on the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, also to help share the information with the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134212	Yes, in contrast to the government, we will have to measure up to what we have put forward from proposals. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134219	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Geertsen. And then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134306	First of all, thank you for the floor and thank you for calling this question debate on something as important as the epidemic law. After all, it is basically about how we, as a society, can jointly combat threats to our public health. We're basically in a good place. Although the infection is currently high, we have come through the crisis better with fewer inmates and deaths than many other countries. Our economy has managed relatively well through the crisis, and so far we have avoided the very severe restrictions and closures that we have seen in other countries where the infection has run out of control. A large part of this is about the fact that we in Denmark have set in efficiently and quickly once the infection has flared up. We did so back in March, and we have done so many times since, both with regional and national measures. At the same time, the Danes have shown a high degree of confidence in our health authorities, and this has meant that today we are in a better place than many other countries. The prerequisite for our success as a society through the crisis is that we have had an epidemic law with the tools necessary for us to be able to manage well through the crisis • tools that we would normally never dream of using, for example. to limit how many we must gather, but which at the same time has also had a great effect on the success of breaking the chains of infection. Our current epidemic law is equipped with a sunset clause so that it automatically lapses until March 2021. It is therefore a bottom-up task to adopt a new epidemic law, otherwise we will be without an epidemic law in just a few months' time. The new epidemic law must be able to cope with the ongoing challenges of covid-19, and it must also be able to deal with the epidemics and pandemics that may come in the future, so that we do not have to go into an emergency treatment once again if a new epidemic hits us. Overall, it is important for us to learn from the experience of handling covid-19. Among other things: We must be able to act quickly with measures across the country. At the same time, it is essential for us that a decision to shut down large sections of society should lie with politicians. This must be the case in a democracy, but of course with competent advice from the authorities. In conclusion, I think it is important that, regardless of our political disagreements, we rely on what comes from our health authorities and do not cast distrust on the authorities or on whether restrictions work. I do not see anything good coming out of it where it is made a political issue, perhaps even a political fight, whether you trust the health authorities or not. As I said, it is ultimately up to the government and politicians to make the necessary decisions, and it is also quite fair to disagree with the government's decisions. Then you just have to tell me what you would have done differently. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption here and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Radicals, Enhedslisten and Socialist People's Party: proposals for adoption • There is no majority for the government's draft new epidemic law. Parliament therefore obliges the government to submit before Christmas a draft law ensuring parliamentary control of wide-ranging ministerial powers, transparency. the basis for decision, legal certainty for citizens and without the possibility of forced vaccination. In addition, a new law must contribute to good preparedness. V 25).
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134648	Thank you. That will now be part of the further debate. I note that there are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and goes on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202134708	We all remember March 11, 2020. I remember, in particular, on 12 March, when we were to deal urgently with the epidemic law. I think all the health rapporteurs remember the day we sat together and had to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency. There was stress, there was pressure, and we were told that if it was not treated before 8 a.m. 24.00, some people actually wanted to die, and it was almost our fault if it happened. We tried to put some things together, so we thought that we would be involved; that is also in the text. However, as I understand from yesterday's consultation with the Minister, the involvement is that you are taken to meetings and you can get answers to some questions. That's what it means to involve. I've learned that some other time you'll have to describe it a little more. 31⁄2 months the Code of Epidemics lasted before a large majority of Parliament's parties would change it. It's been a really, really long time. I think, sir. Martin Geertsen said that it was in June that we agreed in a majority that we should have a new epidemic law in June. So we're here on December 2. To me, this is stalling, so you don't actually have time to get a law until it was set up. You have helped to give yourself power by stalling. Yes, we were at a meeting with the Minister for Health one night, and it was just as terrible as the day on which we had to deal with urgent matters on 12 March. We had three consultation parties sitting with their notes on what was wrong, but we did not have time to ask the questions that we wanted to do, because this had to be rushed through again. I complained loudly, and fortunately the Minister for Health heard it, and then we got another day, when we actually had a very good meeting with several authorities, and where we could ask all the questions that were there and we also got some good food. In fact, I thought that now we had reached the point where we could have a new epidemic law with all the parties of the Folketing. We were pretty much on the same page. So I wonder about the proposal for a new epidemic law that was then sent out, because that is not what we agreed on at all. We sat and had a lot of good ideas, but the only thing I could see in the new epidemic law was that the police now joined the group that had to sit with it. But we had many other things, and that is why I am curious about what the epidemic law, which has apparently now been cleared with the red parties, is all about. I am surprised, however, that you are bringing it now and that, in fact, you will not put it in consultation until you put it forward. And the question is whether it is good political ethics that the bill will not be consulted first before it is tabled. So I hope the Minister will discuss that. In this way, we can get the consultation periods properly clarified by precisely those organisations that also questioned it. I would also like to know whether some of the things that we actually pointed out at the time have been included in it. In other words, what the Minister said at the beginning is a great deal of what we all said, but many of us also wanted more people to be involved, and there was such airy who was involved. We would also like to see patients' organisations involved in some of the legal restrictions that are being made, as we are now seeing the Alzheimer's Association, complaining that we have some people with dementia who are actually suffering a lot from restrictions, and there might have been a way to ensure that there were some restrictions that included that they did not get any worse because others should feel better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135120	There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135138	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you to my fellow rapporteurs for calling an urgent question on this important subject. Because for good reason, the Code of Epidemics is filling up a lot at the moment. One only has to look out at the Palace Square in front of Christiansborg, or if one sits in the Chamber, just listen, to confirm that there is a great popular commitment to this debate. This is interesting in itself, because I am quite sure that if some had called for an urgent inquiry about the epidemic law a year ago, most of us would have looked at each other and asked: what law? But this is not a new discussion. It started back in March immediately after the emergency procedure and has increased in the following months. When, before the summer break, I helped to bring together a majority in order to speed up the process of creating a new epidemic law, it was not to rush the process, on the contrary. It was to get the work going, so there was enough time for a good involving process where all relevant parties could be heard. At that time I was quoted in Berlingske with the words "and I regret the direct indictment in the quote: "It's not about Magnus. I would like to elaborate on that, because there is a point in it. I look a little bit at the epidemic law, as I look at my insurance at home I hope I won't need it, but if the accident is out, it's important to have it in the drawer, and not only with it, then you have to get things under control too. The same is true of the epidemic law. In my view, the discussion is not whether we should have it, but what it should look like. Here it has always been my approach that we should be very careful not to go wrong. We are not going to make a covid-19 law or one we want to punish the government law, and my quote that this is not about the minister. Because we need an epidemic law that also works when our children and grandchildren grow up and can deal with still unknown diseases under the current government at any time. That is our task. As you know, the government sent a bill in consultation about a month ago. Although the draft contained some good bars, it was not close to being the law we need. For us in the Radical Left, it is crucial that a new epidemic law respects legal certainty, health care and the rule of the people. There doesn't have to be a contradiction in that. For example, I was pleased to see an epidemic commission explicitly mentioned, although I would like to see a slightly broader composition of professional skills. I was also pleased to see that a new category of diseases has been added • the government has called them social-critical diseases, while I know I have on several previous occasions called them category x, but the name should not separate us. The point is that we need to have a box for those diseases that can have major consequences for society as a whole, and also new diseases that, for good reasons, we do not know in detail. But there are also major problems in the draft, for example. as to when the law is to enter into force. In the draft, it is the minister currently in office who decides whether a disease is socially critical and can therefore activate the law. This is completely untenable. There should be a health professional attitude and subsequent support in the Parliamentary Chamber. This ensures both professionalism and parliamentary support. I also lack a clear definition of when the powers of the Code of Epidemics should cease. Then there is parliamentary involvement. Here we need to find the right balance between being able to act quickly and involving the people's rule. I see two important elements here: firstly, an epidemic committee, which the Minister has mentioned, and secondly, automatic sunset clauses, so that an active decision is taken as to whether action should be extended. Finally, far-reaching coercive measures are being opened up. Legal certainty, judicial review and access to redress for citizens are crucial here. And, of course, we have to ask ourselves whether we should have any coercive powers at all. As much as I am in favour of vaccines, I am equally critical of forced vaccination. We have continued much work ahead of us. The Danes must have a law that secures them in future generations, regardless of the name of the disease and the name of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135543	Thank you. Of course, when you quote, you have to quote correctly, so there are no problems in it. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135555	Thank you. There is a need for a more democratic epidemic law which ensures both the influence of the Folketing on the decisions to be taken and, at the same time, ensures maximum transparency in the decision-making framework for dealing with an epidemic such as the one we are currently in. At the same time, it is important to maintain that necessary decisions can be taken quickly, because a few days can be crucial for how an epidemic develops. The SF continues to support the necessary decommissioning and the precautionary principle. In the spring we were in a difficult situation with lack of protective equipment, lack of tests and medicines, and we had very little knowledge of the new virus. We just have to recognise that this was a situation that the old epidemic law was in no way geared to deal with. A new epidemic law must ensure that we are not in such a vulnerable situation again. A new epidemic law must therefore also strengthen preparedness, for example with central rolling stocks with equipment, tests and medicines, and we must never again rely on the market when it comes to vital goods that the whole world demands at once. It has proved both useful and effective with cooperation between authorities across disciplines. A new Code of Epidemics can benefit from the establishment of an Epidemic Commission composed of relevant agencies and ministries. In the future, we must also be able to deal with any new virus, but we must both be much better prepared and ensure that democracy remains intact. Quite ordinary Danes have shown great faith in the government and parliament by complying with the far-reaching restrictions, and they have been and are still part of society. We should not take that for granted. Support for the decisions requires both political support and, as far as possible, open discussion of the basis for the decisions. The restrictions must be understandable so that we can earn the support of our citizens. The SF has a series of proposals on how a future epidemic law can become more democratic, because there is a need to strengthen democracy and transparency in a new and permanent epidemic law. A new Code of Epidemic Law is designed to ensure the democratic influence of the Folketing on the necessary decisions. A new epidemic law must ensure transparency. I have just said that, and we must do so, for example. make through an epidemic committee. In the future, all notices that may result from interventions in relation to an epidemic must be covered by sunset clauses, so it is clear to citizens that temporary restrictions are and remain temporary and not a new standard that can be listed through the back door. A future epidemic law, unlike the old epidemic law, will be vacuumed for concepts of forced vaccination. In an enlightened society such as ours, the rule is that citizens themselves make necessary decisions about their own health, and in practice we will find ourselves in a situation where there will not be enough vaccines for those who want to be vaccinated. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the government, governments, employees and citizens for their enormous efforts. Why don't we get to agree on a permanent law and get one of these? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135928	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202135935	Thank you for that, President. We must protect our democracy and our legal principles, just as carefully as we protect our common health. It has all the way through the corona been the Enhedslisten line. We are in an extraordinary situation. We are in the midst of a dangerous epidemic that affects our vulnerable and vulnerable groups and our elderly in particular. We are in the midst of a pandemic that brings society to its knees all over the world, but we stand here together. It is our solidarity, unity and trust in each other as citizens of Danish society that must carry us through the epidemic. That trust is based on strong legal certainty and democracy and on a legitimate expectation among the people that the Folketing has control over the authorities. That is why it has been important for Enhedslisten to strengthen democracy and legal certainty throughout the Corona. Even when I was here for the first time in the debate on the interim epidemic law, we in the Enhedsliste placed a decisive emphasis on the importance of court orders and subsequent judicial proceedings, and most importantly that the very far-reaching emergency epidemic law had a sunset clause. We succeeded in these agendas in the Enhedslisten. We also fought for the ongoing democratic supervision of the powers exercised by the government. We did not succeed in that agenda at the time. The Corona fight is on two legs. Firstly, it depends on a strong welfare society, on skilled and dedicated professional people on the front line of the Corona management and on a precautionary strategy that a sensible majority has supported throughout. Secondly, it depends on our unity and trust. It is because, overall, we have been good at combining the two elements that Denmark is one of the countries that so far has done best through the corona. When we adopted the interim epidemic law, the corona was still completely unknown to us. That will also be the future epidemics that we must be able to deal with. That is why we need to adopt an epidemic law that both provides the authorities with the tools they need to protect us and, at the same time, ensures much less coercion and a much greater democratic surplus. The game we first saw from the government didn't strike that balance. It is essential that we have less coercion and more democratic security. In concrete terms, Enhedslisten will fight for the Folketing to decide when it is a social-critical illness that opens up the large toolbox of powers. We will fight to ensure that the specific powers used by the authorities and the assessment of whether there is a social-critical illness are regularly reviewed in the Folketing. And we are going to fight to eliminate the compulsions that create insecurity about disease control, for example. compulsory vaccines. We're not in line with the corona yet, and on a long stretch we've done really well. Now we must act wisely and ensure the future of our epidemic law, so that it expresses the deepest respect for our democracy and legal certainty, while allowing the authorities to act quickly and effectively. In the Enhedslisten, we will push for more democracy and less coercion, so that confidence is paramount. This is the only sustainable way forward if we want to protect both our common health and, at the same time, protect our common democracy and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140315	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments, which is why we can now move on to Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140330	Thank you for the floor. And I would also like to thank those parties who have helped to call this question debate. It is an important debate and these are issues that are absolutely fundamental to our democracy. The debate on the epidemic law is, of course, about health, but it is just as much about our people's government, about our democracy and for good reason, because the whole idea behind the epidemic law is that we can quickly and effectively provide the government with tools to act against, for example, global pandemics. It is, of course, in itself a sensible idea, but the powers contained in the law should, of course, always be based on a broad democratic majority. When we amended the epidemic law back in March, we stood on a different ground than we do today. We didn't know how the infection would develop or what consequences the covid-19 would have for our hospitals. We could see that the infection increased dramatically in Denmark and that other health services around Europe were being pushed to the extreme. That is why we also chose in the Conservative People's Party to vote in favour of the amendments to the Code of Epidemics together with a broad majority in the Parliament because it was responsible to do with the starting point that we had then, and all parties agreed on that. However, it is also important to point out, as we also did back in March, that the very extreme powers should of course have a fixed end date, and that is why we jointly made a sunset clause so that we knew that those powers did not last forever, because that was never the intention, and that is why we must now negotiate a new epidemic law. So today we are on a different basis. We know much more about the virus today, and our health care has not been overloaded, as has been seen in other countries, and at the same time we have come closer to a vaccine. And it all provides a very good basis for discussing the new epidemic law. Our starting point is that the basis of the new epidemic law must be based on a broad majority here in the Folketing, and it is a bottom-up task for every government to make sure that there is a large democratic majority behind such far-reaching powers, because we simply owe it to the Danes. We must also ensure that health professionals' expertise is heard and involved in the decision-making process. An epidemic must be able to be managed in the same way as all sorts of other diseases. If one should ever have doubted the dangers of arbitrary decisions in crisis situations, the Minkskan Valley has at least discredited the ground, because the government's handling of the outbreak of infection at mink was premature, when the decision was taken at a coordination committee meeting almost panicked, and the result is clear: Denmark is today without one of its major professions, abolished overnight on the basis of an illegal order. We owe these minks a real compensation because it is an expropriation. And just as much we owe it to the minkkeepers, as well as to all other Danes, to create a better epidemic law so that we avoid future willful decisions as well as those that killed the minks. Although the order was not given under the epidemic law, the course at least shows the fatal consequences of willfulness. As I said, it is important to create an epidemic law in which public health considerations should not affect the rule of the people and there is a need for a comprehensive democratisation of the law so that we ensure that decisions are taken with the support of the Folketing. One might be a little worried about the forthcoming negotiations... whether they are actually going to be real negotiations or whether they are going to be skin negotiations. Because today it has emerged that negotiations are going on with a number of parties in the Danish Parliament, and funny enough, while that article came out almost simultaneously with it an invitation to a debate on Monday. And we'd be happy to accept such an invitation, but I'd just like to appeal to you that it's time for properness. It is time to get proper conduct back in the people's regime and to secure real negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140724	Thank you. This time there are so short remarks, and the three that are are going to be in this round. It's first, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140732	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado for the speech. When we negotiated the Emergency Epidemic Act back in March, on 12 March, the Enhedslisten made demands that the powers given should be reviewed every three months to ensure that there was ongoing parliamentary control over the powers given to the government. We could not get a majority for that then. And there I just want to hear the Conservatives say how they stand today: whether you agree that it is sensible to have some kind of continuous control over the powers given to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140807	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140808	In any case, it is good sense to have some sort of control introduced. Whether or not it should be every three months, I should not be able to say, because you also need a law that can work. However, I think it makes a great deal of sense to take it at a negotiating meeting. You just have to say that it's been a really, really long time, when nothing has happened. And to be honest, I get a little worried that this process will end up being dragged out so far that we end up in a timeline, and it will end up not becoming the good, solid craftsmanship that would like to be the basis of an epidemic law, but something that is rushed through because we have to reach it before a deadline where the current epidemic law falls, i.e. because of the sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140845	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140846	I fully agree that a thorough process is necessary, but we also have to recognise that it is true that there was a desire for an epidemic law to be put forward, even if no results had been negotiated. And that has been part of the reason why the process has dragged on. However, I agree that it should of course be the case that there will be time for a hearing. However, I understand that Conservatives support the fact that there must be an ongoing review of the powers given to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140913	Well, it is actually a fairly open answer from here, because such a power can be given in many ways. That is why I do not close the door too hard and say: we will certainly not do that. I am actually saying quite openly that we would like to discuss this. We would like to discuss bringing in some control instruments so that we can keep track of how the epidemic law is being applied, especially in the time we are in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140938	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202140941	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, too. I took note of the rapporteur's concern that the health authorities should, in the same way, have a decisive word in relation to the future, and I certainly think so too. And I agree with the part about having sunset clauses in relation to how long you can, like, have announcements that apply in certain areas. However, when the rapporteur mentions health professionals, I think that some of the things that have been talked about a great deal around are precisely epidemic commissions. What does the rapporteur think such a thing could consist of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141020-2	Well, it is important that we gather all the knowledge and that we get a general professional recommendation, but the most important thing is to get the people's rule back. That is why we can hear that there are demonstrations outside. After all, there is a concern that the people's rule is being overridden. And I just have to say that I get worried when I discover, through an article in B.T., that there are skin negotiations going on and that there is a negotiating trail going on in which a large part of the parties are not involved at all. So I would just like to point out to you that you are choosing a process in which you have the openness that I also heard the rapporteur's request in his speech. The openness is both to invite, involve and negotiate directly with all parties instead of running such parallel processes, because it does not give the good process and hopefully the good law that we should eventually end up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141124	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141125	I therefore agree that democratic control must be restored in any case. And I could easily see that it was a real committee which, as it were, had to be co-decision-making in relation to decisions to be taken. But that does not change the fact that some kind of commission is still needed to take note of it. I think that some of what we have learned from this process is that many authorities, i.e. both the NOST, the Agency for Patient Safety and the Statens Serum Institute, have been involved in doing some things, and could it perhaps be the kind of commission you see in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141204	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141205	In any case, it can be said that the regional epidemic committees that were in the old law have served their purpose, and that is why we need to set up a new tool. After all, it is important to have an overall professional approach and also to involve the Folketing, and whether this means setting up a standing committee in the context of parliament, for example, could be. As I hope I can be noticed, we are actually going quite openly into this discussion with a hope and a desire to find common ground and also get a good, solid epidemic law that can last very, very many years in the future and not only in the situation we are in right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141242	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141243	Thank you very much. This is the perfect transition to my question. Thanks for the speech. Mrs Mai Mercado mentioned that it was a question debate and this encouraged me to press the button, because I think it has been a little tame with questions for the previous speakers. The rapporteur mentions that we now know the virus better and that we are starting to have vaccines ready for that. It may be that I interpret it wrong, but does this mean that Mrs Mai Mercado thinks that now we have to make a law that works when we know the virus and have vaccines ready, or do I misunderstand what the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141318	In fact, it is almost the opposite: although we are in a situation where we have a vaccine ready within a few months, and we have become more capable of knowing the virus and handling the virus, as long as there are fewer people dying in Danish hospitals, it is still important to have an epidemic law which is partly geared to corona and partly geared to future pandemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141340	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141340-2	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear that, because it is of course, I think, extremely important that we do not make a law that works now but works for future unknown epidemics. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has thought about what tools in the existing epidemic law might be taken out. So, what have we given powers for which we should not give to future health ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141403	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141404	At the heart of the matter is the fact that a very, very large part of the power is placed alone with the Minister for Health, it presents a great challenge. That's why we can hear people out on the street making noise. It is, of course, in opposition to the absolute position of power in one place, and it must in fact be the most important thing, namely that future decisions must be taken by a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141434	Then we thank Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141442	Let me be quite clear: new citizens are extremely critical of the draft law on an epidemic law put forward by the government. And we are for two main reasons: 1) the content itself, and 2) how we got here. Because we are dealing with a government which violates the law, which lies about it and then deceives citizens. I would therefore also like to explain why we are as critical as we are. After all, we are because the outgoing Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities said in a written reply: "The government has decided that the seriousness of the situation has been taken into account. That is why it has been estimated that new legislation could not be awaited before it was withdrawn. Well, the government knew very well that it broke the law, but it couldn't wait. It is deeply serious that we have a government that does this, and that makes you start to lose confidence in a government. When the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities even said in the conciliation on 11 November that he has been telling the truth all along, that he has not lied, and that what he said in his written comment was true, the logical consequence is, of course, when the Prime Minister at the same time says that the government was not aware that it had no legal basis, that there has been a lie. And there is evidence on this, too, because at the press conference on 4 November, the Prime Minister illegally ordered all mink to be killed, including the breeding animals, and she did so with the following sentence: "But on the basis of the clear recommendation of the health authorities, it is the necessary decision to make in Denmark. There is just the problem with it that it has the Statens Serum Institute not recommended, and it is clear as the Serum Institute, as a consultation answer to L 77, writes the following: "To this it should be noted that it is not SSI that has proposed the killing of mink, which may be the view of the current structure of the section. In this context, it should be stressed that the SSI, with its risk assessment on human health, has carried out a risk assessment on its own by continuing mink breeding November 2020. human health, if after killing infected animals or furning during the 2020 season mink production continues into 2021 as normal. SSI has therefore not proposed possible solutions. Then we come to the deception. Because apparently the government is now trying to convince the people that what they're talking about wasn't an order at all. There was no illegal order; it was an invitation. There are no normal thinking people who share that view, but that is what the government maintains, and they even want us to buy the story that all civil servants had a collective meltdown and lost their professional skills and did not consult the government when it made the decision in the coordination committee, not on model 1, for which it knew it had no legal basis, not on model 2, for which it knew it had no legal basis, but on a newly-invented model 3, to which one simply did not ask if one had a legal basis. What's that all about? Of course, in a normally functioning reality, those responsible would take responsibility for their actions and take the consequences of their unlawfulness, but not in the political world. Here you can get along with it as long as you have friends in the Enhedslisten and SF and perhaps also Radicals, who keep their hands on you. It is indeed a sad state. Now we are here with an epidemic law in which the government asks the Folketing to show confidence in the government, but with the history we have and which I have just listed up, how the hell could one have confidence in giving more power to a government when it has clearly shown that it cannot honour it? There's the good English expression: Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141854	It usually has to be translated, but I think we don't. Lars Boje Mathisen You may try). There are a few brief comments, and we will take them. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141906	Thank you for that, and thank you for an unusual speech in a question debate, which is, of course, about us having a new epidemic law. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur would like to congratulate us on what the rapporteur thinks could make sense of including in a new epidemic law, which should, of course, ensure more democracy and more transparency and procedures for dealing with difficult decisions in a difficult situation. Perhaps the rapporteur also had an offer to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202141941	Now New Citizens have not been in the negotiations that the SF has apparently been to, where the government has presented the second version of the epidemic law. I can only deal with what the government has put forward for consultation as the government's proposal for a new epidemic law. And there we are very, very critical, because in this proposal we do not believe that the anchoring is in the Folketing, but that it lies with the individual minister, who can himself define what kind of disease we are dealing with and therefore give himself powers. We think it is extremely important that the anchoring is in the Folketing; we think it is extremely important that there is no coercion; and then we do not think that people should be forced to provide information and that authorities and companies should be forced to give information to a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142019	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142020	This is going to be a little easy, but I think I will just refer to the discussions in which both the rapporteur and I have participated, in which people from Justitia and the Institute of Human Rights and other good people have helped to give us some good ideas as to how such a law could be put together so that it both becomes democratic and, at the same time, we also ensure that the Folketing still has a hand in the decisions to be made. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142053	The negotiations were therefore a surprise that the government presented the draft epidemic law that it did. Then I hear some people say no, but it was under pressure of time. Now, listen to this: since we adopted the interim epidemic law, it has been known that until 1 March you had something new to do. Well, then it's just getting started. But it was only when we then put forward a proposal that it should now be done, and we put pressure on it before the summer break that it began. So time and again we have had to push him, so the excuse that we have acted a little backwards, I simply do not buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142129	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. And that is why we can now move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142139	Thank you for the floor. An epidemic law has a certain resemblance to a house insurance policy. Mr. Stinus Lindgreen in today's chronicle in Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten, and that is a view I must agree with. You have house insurance, and you hope you never need it. It should preferably just be in the desk drawer, it should be full-scale, it should be free of hidden costs, costs and annoyances, and that is also how a good epidemic law is designed. Looking beyond the world, one of the most dangerous things that can happen during an epidemic is that there is a political controversy about the management of the epidemic itself. In relation to the covid-19, it could be a political controversy about the principle of distance, or it could be a political controversy about using hand alcohol. Experience shows that in countries where the basic principles of dealing with the epidemic are seen as what we in Denmark would call either red or blue, things are worse than in countries where people across the political divides can see the reason for fighting the epidemic with the best means available to society. That is why it is above all our desire in the Liberal Alliance that we should have an epidemic law that is broadly politically anchored, because this is one of the ways in which we avoid a political controversy about the best way of dealing with an epidemic in the health sector. We want an epidemic law that does not happen and I do not repeat We want an epidemic law that does not spring from dissatisfaction with the current government and can be seen as revenge against the current government, for the new epidemic law must be applicable by many future governments far into the future and by many future Parliaments. It's not a secret, is it, sir? Stinus Lindgreen and I have been working across the blocks for some time to formulate sound principles for an epidemic law, and why is that not a secret? It is not because we have created a common podcast that everyone can go online and hear. That's as far as that story goes. If you don't have time to go online and hear this podcast, I can tell you a little bit about what's in it. There are, among other things: the fact that we have to have a law that contains a third category we don't have to argue about the name, social-critical diseases are fine. There must also be influence in determining when diseases are critical to society. Other things are an epidemic commission, the use of sunset clauses and better redress for citizens if they want to complain about something concrete. We have a model to regulate the interaction between the government and the Folketing already, and that is the Foreign Policy Name. Therefore, I do not see why we could not be inspired by the Foreign Policy Name and operate with an epidemic board working during the periods of operation of the epidemic law, but in the same way as the Foreign Policy Name is working on. The initiative we have had from the government today in the Chamber gives hope that we can have a broadly based epidemic law. That is why it is our wish that we get to the end of that project. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142543	There is not much time left for short remarks, and that is why I will only allow one brief comment, and that is for Mr Beazley. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142550	Thank you for that, and I will be brief. Thank you for a very good speech. We are not surprisingly very much in agreement, and I think that the rapporteur has made many good points, which seem to be receiving attention from the Minister as well. I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl said a little about the balance between parliamentary control and the possibility that a government can act quickly and agile not this government, but the government in office at all times. How can we ensure that a government can act when necessary and, at the same time, how can we ensure parliamentary support for the actions that are coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142625	That is why I would like to point out that we have the foreign policy name. The Constitution states that it is the government that conducts foreign policy, and this can sometimes be very, very strong, and it may be necessary to act, but it also states in the Constitution that there must be parliamentary control in the form of the Foreign Policy Name. And the way in which the Foreign Policy Name works is very, very much incorporated. Everyone knows what this is about. I have been in it myself and there is an excellent interaction between government and Parliament, which we have long traditions of handling in a sensible way. That is why I think we should be inspired by the way in which the report works, also in relation to epidemics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142705	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And that means that it is now the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202142719	Thank you for that and thank you very much for today's debate, which I think has been very, very interesting. When I was back in March in the middle of dealing with a new disease, which has come through one or perhaps more animals in China, probably, and which was very contagious, and which spread suddenly to Europe, where Europe became the epicenter and it also sat down in Denmark, I promised myself two things: to work everything I could to get Denmark safely through the threat, the crisis, with a health service intact, and at the same time to work to ensure that the next time there is a pandemic with an unknown, new dangerous disease that hits Denmark, then the person who then has the responsibility is probably not me, and I hope that there are many, many years to go, that is to say that it is another person, perhaps from another party who is responsible for better opportunities, better tools, more clarity, and that Denmark is more clear with regard to tests, equipment, medicines, but also with regard to legislation; epidemic law and epidemic preparedness in our relevant regimes. And that is what our proposal for an epidemic law, which I have outlined today, is part of. After all, the existing Code of Epidemics was urgently revised in the Parliamentary Assembly back in March. It was necessary, but otherwise it has many, many years on the back, and it has been something that has not really been dusted by enough often. Therefore, a proposal for an epidemic law that ensures action, overview and, of course, also the rule of the people, legal certainty and transparency. That is what I have explained here in Parliament in relation to our proposal, and I very much look forward to discussing it with the parties of the Folketing. And I would say that my aim is to reach a broad agreement with the parties of the Folketing, where we can go to the Parliamentary Assembly together and vote it through here. For my goal is that this epidemic law must survive many changes of government and also survive future health crises, without future Parliament entering new emergency laws late at night with a global pounding pandemic knocking at the door of our society. And that's my goal. I can't tell if it's gonna work. This requires that we all listen to each other and that we all perhaps also set aside party politics and look at the principle. I think this is important to the nation, and if we do so, I believe it is an important signal to each other, but also to the Danes, to the people and also to those who are currently spending a lot of time on facebook groups, spending time on conspiracies, those who are vaccine sceptics, those who think they are not safe in the fact that there is folk rule, legal certainty, transparency, health professionalism behind Denmark's handling of this pandemic. That is why I am very much looking forward to continuing discussions with the parties of the Folketing on the basis of the consultation responses we have received and the new proposal that we in the government are ready to move forward with. And if there is support, before Christmas we will be putting forward a new proposal for an epidemic law. I have heard today that there are several parties that want it to be consulted. I am in favour of this, so let us have it in consultation and also there get an open process and write it in, if there are good points there is probably there and then let us make amendments. The government is quite willing to do so, so we will then have an epidemic law prepared for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143142	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143146	Thank you. It is very touching that the Minister for Health is standing in the Chamber today saying that it is important to invite the parties and have discussions, and if anyone has anything, you can even table any amendments. That's amazing. Against this background, I would like to hear the Minister's assessment or explanation of what kind of e-mail went from the Minister to the three support parties yesterday, where the e-mail says: What kind of a model is this, what kind of a meeting, what kind of a way of negotiating, if you are now pretending to involve the whole parliament? Well, that would suggest something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143233	There's no way it does. As is also known to the Danish People's Party, we sent a draft in consultation on 30 September on the basis of the meetings presented by the rapporteur from DF, meetings with think tanks and other things. And then we sent a draft in consultation. But, of course, we continued our discussions. After all, we had bilateral meetings with each party. We have had meetings with the Left, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, SF, Radical and Danish People's Party. According to my notes here on 13 November, we had a meeting with the Danish People's Party. And then we have, of course, up to this urgent request, as all other governments have assured us, that there is no majority against the government. It is, of course, perfectly standard parliamentary work, as I know Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with his long parliamentary experience at We will continue our discussions with all the parties and look forward to those meetings. And I think there's been a call this week or next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143333	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143334	That sounds good. But what exactly is this model aimed at in this e-mail to the three parties and for which support is requested? So, it says: "It can't be interpreted differently than that there is an understanding of the new epidemic law and a model for it. And that's what you do with your three support parties. And it's actually legal enough, it's not that, but it's just something other than what you've been pretending to the Danish people, in terms of how you're going to work with this epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143415	But it's not. We can pretend that it is not the case that when there is an urgent request, it is not the government's job to ensure that there is no majority against the government. But that's just not true. Well, that's perfectly standard, and Mr. Cole knows that. Kristian Thulesen Dahl very well with his long parliamentary experience. I even think he has been involved in negotiating with various governments, including various urgent debates on questions. And, of course, there have also been discussions up to this, and a wise text has also been presented for the agenda, which I assume all parties can support. I think it's smart and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143455	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143457	Well, I don't know who sent the Minister of Health on a mission like Comic Ali. I sympathize with the Minister of Health. I would just like to ask one thing: in June, a majority is instructing the government to put forward a new epidemic law based on popular rule, transparency and legal certainty. Then, in September, a bill will be presented which contains everything other than that. Can the Minister for Health not reply to what in the world has taken place in the government offices in June, July, August and September, which means that the government is making a bill which goes against in every way what all the experts have recommended and against what a majority in the Folketing has imposed on the government? What is the explanation for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143559	There's no need to be angry or upset, sir. Martin Geertsen, for the explanation Mr. Martin Geertsen himself. The explanation is, of course, that we had discussions and there was a desire for more discussions and we also took them with the completely independent legal bodies and think tanks. Justitia and the Institute of Human Rights I also believe that Danske Lawyers were with us and advised us and the parties. The last meeting of the follow-up group was on 25 August, and then we were in September, and then we sent this bill in consultation. It was because there was a wish for it, so of course we did, but as Mr. Martin Geertsen also knows, we negotiated further, despite the fact that there was a draft in consultation. And we had a meeting, among other things. with the Left, where some of the elements I have outlined today were also up, and I look forward to continuing the negotiations, including with the Left, on the content of our concrete proposals and also on the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143706	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143707	Well, the last thing here was a confession. In other words, the government put forward a proposal with which it did not, in fact, agree, or what? What has happened over in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice during the period from a majority in the Folketing instructs the government to present a proposal for a new epidemic law based on popular government, transparency and legal certainty, for the government to present a proposal with exactly the opposite content?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143743	I think we are dealing with a confession case by the Left, because it was the Left Party which, as the only party in the broad circle of parties, said that this was going to be heard, despite the fact that we had just been sitting with think tanks and ideas, and we had moved on and were ready to enter into a substantive debate on how we could push this together and where we could all actually see ourselves in it. The Left was the party that said: no, it has to be consulted now. So the answer to the question is that that is what has happened, that is, that the Left demanded that we have it in consultation, and then we did it. And now we're standing here and having a hearing answer, and that's fine, but that's where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143819	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143821	Thank you. I am on both committees dealing with minorities, the German minority in Denmark and the Danish minority south of the border. I am well aware that it is the government's right to open and close borders, but I would still like to ask whether the Minister does not think that when new legislation is to be drawn up, we should also take account, for now we have gained some experience, of the two minorities who have cross-border relations, i.e. as far as we can stretch ourselves, of the fact that this relationship can, of course, continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143903	I fully agree that there is a special consideration to be given to the close neighbours and minorities we have. This has also been seen by the way it has been handled so far, i.e. that there have been specific regional approaches. Whether it can be included or should be covered by an epidemic law, I look forward to being able to dive into it. It may well be. At any rate, I think it would be quite appropriate to look at whether this is something that needs to be incorporated into the legislation. Here, too, I would like to say that it must, of course, be legal in relation to how to write it in, i.e. whether such a consideration is legal in nature. However, if our lawyers can find a wording that actually helps something that makes a good difference and on which the parties agree, then it is for me to see a noble and a good point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143953	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202143954	I am glad that the Minister is not completely rejecting the idea, and I look forward to perhaps finding a formula. Because I actually think it is important that we take that into account for our minorities. It's been a really, really difficult time for them. And now I think we have also had some experience of how to partially open a border for people who have a worthy purpose on one side and on the other side of the border. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144020	It was said a little ironic by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl that amendments are welcome but they are And now the government has this revised proposal, after we have had more time, also to read consultation answers and hear where the parties are after the reviews we have had and have had discussions with each party along the way. But it's not like this is written in stone. But it's gonna be on the cover of a newspaper somewhere, because I know how the Folketing works. But let us work towards it and accept good ideas and amendments, and let us see if we cannot find a solution in which most parties can see themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144058	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144101	Thank you. Now I can hear that rumors, speculations, conspiracies and everything else can quickly arise, so I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that there is no political agreement, no vote agreement or any conciliation on a new epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144120	Thank you. I can confirm that. I don't really know how to address this question. When I'm out in Denmark talking to those who, when you stand on Parliament's platform, are so fine are called ordinary people. Unfortunately, none of us are so much at the moment, but they are the ones who vote in, so they are the ones that we have to listen to in a democracy, namely the people in a government of the people. And I'm gonna answer all the questions, including questions that were about this. But I can just confirm, sir. Peder Hvelplund in relation to his question. There is no vote agreement. One of these hasn't been made. If there was, we'd probably have told you. Of course there isn't, but it's natural that there's nothing new under the sun that you get up to a question debate, an urgent question, even, of course, making sure you know where the majority is compared to, among other things. the texts to be submitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144228	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144228-2	I would just like to sign for that answer and, by the way, I would like to sign that the government, with the announcements that are coming now, has obviously listened to the criticism that has been made of the first draft that came from the government. For virtually all parties, except the government, were aware that this was not supported by me. And there I think it makes sense to start listening to those signals and, in particular, to ensure that there is parliamentary control, openness and ensuring that we avoid the possibility of forced vaccinations. So I would just like to sign that, that is to say, it seems that the government has listened to the signals that have come there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144305	Thank you very much for that statement. At least that is the purpose of listening. There are also changes and things are also being recognised along the way, and that is the purpose. Of course there may be criticism along the way of progress and other things; of course I accept that, and it is my responsibility, but first of all my responsibility to live up to the promise I made myself, namely: the next time a health crisis of that caliber hits us, the current Minister for Health and the Parliament that is must have far better conditions to deal with it than we had back in March.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144339	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144342	Thank you. Well, in Conservatives, we got an invitation to a meeting at 9:00. 11.29, and that was, 11⁄2 hour after the Prime Minister's Office was asked for a comment in relation to the government negotiating with the red block. That is why I would like to start by asking the Minister whether there has been contact or coordination between the two ministries, because it cannot be by chance that we should be at noon. 11.29 gets that invitation. It must be because you know there's a bad story coming. Then I think it is crazy that Enhedslisten should try to come to the rescue of the government by asking whether a vote has been reached. I mean, excuse me, but it's baroque. We are in a political debate where mistrust has flourished, which is toiled on confidence in politicians, and then we have to ask the Minister to negotiate in secret. Well, that's crazy. I would therefore just like to ask whether one can see that one creates distrust by negotiating and if one has not thought that one would negotiate in secret, if one can then see that this is perhaps the most amateuristic trait that has long happened in the Folketing and in the parliament context?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144501	Well, Mrs Mai Mercado, it may well look amateuristic. I think that this is entirely standard procedure. Martin Geertsen was up, speaking on behalf of what he called the blue parties. So this suggests that there have been probes between the blue parties leading up to this discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber. You can talk this up easily, but you cannot talk it up and then at the same time say that you are worried about confidence in politics. Because if you talk this up as a big new problem, you make a wrong picture of how completely standard work here in the Folketing is up to such a debate. I hope, moreover, that the blue parties too, if we can coordinate it, but otherwise each party will at least consider voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the parties in which I am also a member.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144609	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144610	This is where the Minister has the opportunity to talk it down in this way, and the Minister did not reply. I would just remind you that the Minister is speaking under the Minister's Responsibility Act. Following a media comment that there is being negotiated in secret, there has been coordination or communication between ministries with it came out that we get an invitation at 1 p.m. 11.29 for a meeting and a debate on the epidemic law on Monday morning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144647	I can say that it is completely out of thin air that invitations to these negotiations should have something to do with what B.T. writes. It is long prepared that there should be meetings with them. I hope that there is strong coordination between the Ministry of Health and the Prime Minister when it comes to things that are going on in our ministry, so I certainly hope there is. I myself am barely aware of this because I was in a meeting with the EU's health ministers at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144725	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144726	Thank you. I think it was sir. Martin Geertsen, who said the devil is in the detail. I fully agree with that, which is why we in the Radical Left are looking forward to seeing the text of the law and to seeing the consultation answers that might come when the new epidemic law is put into consultation. I would like to know whether the Minister will comment on what Mr. Henrik Dahl said. The Minister is putting forward something which, as I understood it, sounded as if the European Committee of the Regions was a model for this coming epidemic committee, while Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned something to be modelled on the Foreign Policy Name. These are two slightly different sizes, and does the Minister have any thoughts about for or against one model versus the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144802	Indeed, I heard it well, and that is one of the things I have to say that we have also discussed when we have met with the individual parties, where some have been concerned about the machinery of the boards, and others have been concerned about the structure of the European Committee. When we propose the European Committee ourselves, it is because we believe that there is a greater degree of resignation from the government and, of course, a question to the parties of the Folketing: do they put themselves behind the attitude of the authorities or do they not? We have the name to consult, but we have to obtain a direct mandate in the Committee on European Affairs, which is why I am most in favour of it. I am, of course, happy to be convinced here too if there are arguments to the contrary. I can immediately see the most benefits of having a European Committee-like construction, but I said "like" • Take a look at it. There are things that, of course, cannot be transferred one to one. I think that's logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144906	Thank you. And there is no follow-up brief remark from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen. So here it is, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202144911	Thank you. Now I am one of the ordinary citizens with whom the Minister would like to come out and talk. I've just come in here and I'm used to walking out there in real life, as the minister says. I would therefore like to ask a few questions about something I do not know if the Minister is finished on the phone. Excuse me, President, can I have a new appointment? I see the Minister is busy answering a text. Can I start over? Fourth Vice-President Yes). Well, that's fair enough. I'm not in a hurry. But as I said, I'm coming from out there from the real world, and now I'm standing here with these 32 pages about the new epidemic law. And what is remarkable to me is that it is completely cleansed and cleared of content on business. So I would like to ask the Government's position as to why it has been completely removed from the new epidemic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145006	Yes, our proposal to do so has been turned around with part of the Danish Parliament's parties. I do not want to tell you so much about what is happening in meetings with individual parties, and I do not really remember straight on whether it was up at the meeting with the new citizens either. But our proposal regarding the whole question of how we are to deal with various forms of compensation in the next pandemic can also be aid packages; it can be all this financial in relation to the private business sector, which of course suffers a loss is that we get some experts to look at it and make a recording for us; that we give them a deadline and a task. And then the experts must come up with a concrete piece on how it can be written into the law, and then meet with the parties that then help to make the law so that they can assess whether it is something they want to add to and write into the law. So that is our proposal. Because if this law is to be valid for 30 years or 50 years in the future, and it's our goal to be able to do so, then we also need to have some experts who can say: How can you write something with reservations about how Denmark's bnp etc. Does it look like that long a time frame? So that is our proposal. In other words, we do not have a concrete answer to it on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145121	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145122	I must strongly warn against this. For what is clear is that time and again the business community has acted on the backside; that business did not know what rights they had; that they did not know what compensation they could have; that mink farmers did not know whether to kill their animals or what to do. That is, of course, the consequence of the fact that time and again the business community has not known anything about what rights they had. And that is why it is important that it is in the new law so that they do not just have to find out afterwards. And if you are going to sign that you agree with what the epidemic law says and with what powers you give to the Folketing or to a minister, then then there must also be some rights to business, so that business knows once and for all what rights they have. Actually, they did with section 27, but they took it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145207	Yes, that is to say, the aim is precisely to ensure that there is as firm and well-described a description of the handling of business as possible. That's what the target is. And there is the fact that we are saying: we have not yet seen either from any of the parties we have met, or from the experts we have asked, or from our own lawyers, our own experts, something that you can say can be written in just as it is. And that is why we propose that we ask some experts about that. And what that group of experts is going to look like, we will have to discuss with the parties that have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145242	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145244	Thank you. If it were up to the Left, Denmark should have been given a new epidemic law long ago. We did something in March where there was an emergency. After all, the urgent situation has long since passed and we are still witnessing a government that has done nothing but delay the longest possible so that we can continue to sit on all power until the law expires in March. Now we need a new epidemic law, in which, fortunately, the government no longer understands, I believe, what the government itself sent in consultation, with proposals for absolutely terrible provisions in a new epidemic law that is almost worse than what we have today. But if a new epidemic law is to be able to survive many different changes of government, why is it that the government is up to an urgent request in the Folketing today to make block policy with the narrowest possible majority in preparation for what should be a broad cooperation in the Folketing on a new epidemic law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145352	I hear you're still stuck in this process discussion. It is a pity, however, that once again the Left is not concerned with content, but with the process, given that we now have the opportunity to speak content, when we now have the opportunity to discuss something as important in our democracy as an epidemic law and democratic control and parliamentary involvement and provisions for forcing all such very, very fundamental things. I have to repeat my answer from earlier. It's perfectly normal standard procedure. After all, an urgent question ends with a vote on proposals for adoption, which is why it is perfectly normal procedure at any time that a government has discussions with the parties of the Folketing on how such a text could be drafted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145458	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145459	But the e-mail that has been leaked to the press does not say anything about a proposal for adoption. On the contrary, the parties in the red block must give their feedback on whether they support the model that has been met. There we were just thinking that there would be broad cooperation across the political middle of the Folketing on a new epidemic law. We are obviously looking at things a little differently, and that is why I would just like to ask the Minister, in conclusion, whether he himself thinks that during the Corona crisis the government has acted forcefully and headstrongly. Is that the Minister's opinion and that of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145544	If Mrs Sophie Løhde should now move away from the home-prepared issues and read the proposal for adoption that the parties are behind, then it is precisely about the content of that model. I know that the Left would obviously rather talk about the process, but it is actually about the content, which describes exactly the elements I put forward in my speech, which will form the basis for broad political negotiations, including with the Left Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145618	Thank you. Now we have five minutes left, but I would like to make the last two brief comments. So let us help it along, because I know that the rapporteur for the questioners would also like to have a few minutes rounding. We'll help you make it on time. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145634	Thank you very much. I'm trying to be brief. I just need to correct this understanding that there have been negotiations with all parties. Yes, we had a meeting, sir. Peter Skaarup and I, in 15-20 minutes, were to say what it was about the epidemic law that has been sent in consultation that we did not like. On November 17th, a few days after the Prime Minister goes out and says that now we start afresh. Since then, we haven't heard anything. And that is what I want to ask the Minister: do we now have an epidemic law on 8 December at 1 p.m. 8.30 which we have an agreement on an epidemic law to which we must say yes or no? That is one question. The second question is: is the Committee on the Rules of Procedure being complied with in relation to the time limit for consultation? For that would not be the case with the proposal for adoption made by the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145730	As I remember it and it's with reservations, because it's something I got in my hand on the way in, I came from the EU meeting... was the meeting with DF on 13 November, so there was some time between it and the PM's announcement. As far as our meeting is concerned, as I also said to the party chairman of the Danish People's Party, it is not a 'yes' or 'no' to this. We will, of course, also listen to the debate in this Chamber today on concrete elements for those who have not been involved in the process that Mrs Liselott Blixt was also concerned with. Of course, we listen to them. And let's see if we can find each other. We have one wish, and that is that a broad agreement can be reached on a sensible and good long-term epidemic law. So it is not in any way a yes or no to anything that is finished; it is the goal to make a broad agreement. And yes, the goal is also to have a proper hearing, and I understand that there are several parties that are interested in that, i.e.. the draft law and then also respect the consultation deadline at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145833	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145834	Do I understand correctly that if the proposal is tabled before Christmas, the Rules of Procedure are respected, with a consultation period of four weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145848	I mean, it is enlightened, but I must admit that I am not a 100% expert, in relation to what might be said in some remarks or other, that there is a precedent for doing so, i.e. putting forward a legislative proposal before Christmas and then having a hearing at the same time. This has been done often and many times in the past without democratic problems, that is to say have a good, long consultation period afterwards, and then you can then change the proposed legislation. So that is why it is our proposal, and I also understand that the Folketing wants us to have a new epidemic law. And it must then be put forward before it can become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145927	Thank you. The last brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202145931	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for being here. I have just promised to say first that I would like to support the proposal for adoption No. V 25 to F 25. And I would like to say to the Minister that I am very pleased that all the coercion has come out of this proposal, as the Minister is now telling us today. But now I have not seen the text, and I understand that a commission needs to be set up to follow up and make recommendations, but that the Minister does not have to follow those recommendations, so I have a question: how exactly is it so specific?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150019	First of all, thank you for the report. With the proposal that we will be discussing with all the parties of the Folketing, it is proposed that we have an epidemic commission. We've had to invent things along the way in this crisis. Now we have a task force that will be restructured in our proposal and become an epidemic commission that will then have to make recommendations. And then it will be the case that if a future other government chooses to follow the recommendation, the government minister through the parliamentary committee will have to get support for this. If a government chooses to say that it will go further or that it will not follow the recommendation, or that it ignores the recommendation, then the recommendation must nevertheless be presented to the Folketing, and then the Minister still has to ask the Folketing whether there is, therefore, a majority against this decision, which will then be on the part of the government. And otherwise, of course, you have to keep to what the Folketing says. But I look forward to discussing all this in detail at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150116	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150116-2	I think that sounds good, I'm glad. Does the same apply to forced isolation, forced treatment and forced testing? Should it also be through the Folketing if the Minister does not follow a recommendation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150137	Yes, the idea is that the same should apply. However, it should be borne in mind that it is not the case that the Folketing has to decide. We've had 5-6 cases of necessary coercive measures against people. It's very, very tragic, personal issues that have been in this covid-19 situation. Excuse me, do I only have 10 seconds? Fourth Vice-President It was just my watch, okay. ) Yeah, I think that's it. Sorry, thanks. It was just to be able to answer the substance of the question there. It is by no means suitable for a Parliament to sit and decide on each and every one of them is up to a governing body. Nor is it a minister who should sit and do so, of course, not. It's a board of directors. And then those things are automatically brought before the courts. The idea is that we should be able to use it as a tool, and that would then be something to which the parliamentary committee should be able to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150229	Thank you. I'm sorry my watch had turned zero before the Minister's. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners for a short rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150243	I'll make it quick. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you to the Danish Parliament for a debate I think it was the Minister who used the word 'interesting debate'. That is at least one of the things the Minister has said today that I agree with. Then the Minister says that the Left is interested in the process. Yes, I can guarantee the Minister that we will. I can assure the Minister that we are doing this in the light of events in Danish politics over the last few days and weeks. We have a government that has broken the law! Yes, I can guarantee the government and the minister that we are committed to the process. Process is not a disgrace when it comes to complying with the country's legislation and to the fact that things have to be done according to general parliamentary principles. There are simply questions the government has not answered today. One of the questions is: why does the government put forward a bill that it itself opposes? In other words, you have had as long ago as June, when you are required to present a bill for September, to cut it down in accordance with what the Folketing decides. You choose to do something completely different. And then it has been claimed that it is the fault of the Left that a policy has been put forward which one does not agree with. Oh, come on. And on top of that, you start negotiating in isolation with the red block about a new epidemic law... a complete disregard of what the Prime Minister himself said in the Chamber that all parties would be invited. If you were a bit conspiratorial, and I am not so, you would argue that the government presented a bill in September, which you well knew that the Folketing and experts and all sorts of others were against and that could be poured down the board. Then a fresh start can be made with a whole new legislative process, so that the emergency law adopted in March can just go on until the sunset clause expires in March. And vupti! Then you sit in power and can rule Denmark as you have over the past many months. But of course I'm not that conspiratorial. Listen, our trust in this government can lie in a very, very small place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150511	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended and the time has passed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 3 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150527	I have to inform you that the following questions are removed from today's agenda: 8-14) to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (pm. No. S 450 by Thomas Danielsen (V), S 451 by Morten Dahlin (V), S 471 by Erling Bonnesen (V), S 483 by Anni Matthiesen (V), S 453 by Thomas Danielsen (V), S 454 by Morten Dahlin (V) and S 472 by Erling Bonnesen (V)), 21-24) by the Minister for the Environment (pm. No S 417 by Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), S 419 by Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), S 478 by Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and S 488 by Anni Matthiesen (V)). All the above questions arise at the request of the authors. I should also like to inform you that Question 25 is on the agenda (pm. No. S 388) to the Minister for Culture, by Mr Stén Knuth (V), is deleted at the request of the author. I have to inform you that Question 20 is on the agenda (pm. No. S 387) to the Minister for Industry, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby (DF). I have to inform you that Questions 6 and 7 on the agenda are no longer included in Mr Seligman's agenda. Morten Messerschmidt (DF) who enquires of the co-author himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150606	The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150615	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150616	Thank you. I read out the question and it is this: does the Minister agree that the warning of the failure to authorise the killing of healthy minks outside the so-called safety zones, which the Minister received in the government's Covid-19 committee on 1 October, should have led the government to prevent the illegal order issued by the government at the press conference on 4 November?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150645	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question, and the short answer is: No, I do not think so. Because I do not agree with the questioner's premise for the question, i.e. that I or other ministers in the Covid-19 Committee were warned at that meeting about the lack of legal basis to kill all mink. Let me explain this by examining the two paragraphs quoted in the statement, firstly from the case cited on pages 4 and 5. A number of elements are outlined, including the killing of all minks, a temporary and permanent ban on the holding and breeding of minks and compensation, which may be considered in the event of further development of the disease. The list is not exhaustive, for it begins with e.g. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Quote out. It is not clear, therefore, whether one or more of the elements mentioned require change in legislation. The second paragraph of the report, quoted on page 5, deals directly with one of the elements mentioned in the first paragraph, i.e. the element of killing all mink herds. It follows from this that, in order to do so, the necessary legal basis must be technically clarified if a decision is subsequently taken, in other words, to clarify whether there is already a legal basis or whether new legislation needs to be implemented. It is therefore not possible to conclude that there was no legal basis for killing all mink in Denmark, but that it was necessary to clarify whether there was already a legal basis or to introduce new legislation if it was later decided to kill all mink in Denmark. It is even decided that a decision will be submitted to the government if the professional authorities consider that the development of infection in the mink herds should require further action.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202150843	This is a serious matter, we believe in the Danish People's Party, and I have noticed that many others also think that you choose to kill mink and therefore healthy mink without legal basis. And we think it is very unfortunate that the way in which the government has dealt with things, where, as it were, the monkey has been placed with apparently one particular minister, but where the notes that we have seen and the information that has come out in the government's own statement indicate that it is not only one minister who has known about the issues, but also ministers other than the former Minister for Food. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice here whether the Minister can explain what the point is actually of a Covid-19 committee or, for that matter, of a Coordination Committee whose members who take part in the decisions do not read the cases presented to the committee. I would also like to ask if it is the case that the government should be taken seriously, whether it is not important and reasonable that in areas of enormous importance to all of us, including economic importance, the papers should be read when there is a meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151002	Of course you have to read your papers, and I don't know anyone who doesn't do their utmost to read all the papers they get. It's not the same thing as remembering all the papers you've read. But again: the problem with this question is, in my opinion, that the premise for the question is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151022	I would like to ask you something about other matters. Well, one of the things that goes wrong for crazy drivers is that because of too much speed they lose control of their vehicles. Can't you say the same thing about the government in the mink case? There's a lot of speed going on. It has to go very, very fast, you don't even have time to read the papers and consult the authorities who would then tell you whether things are right or wrong before you drive. I find it problematic that you lose control and lose track of this case, and now we have a situation in which innocent Danish traders have been hit. And then you can see that it shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151103	It is true that we have been here in an area which has been non-EU. I just think that we need to recognise that the authorities that have been delivering an effort over the last few months have been making a huge effort. In fact, I think there is a need for the questioner to acknowledge the efforts of the police, for example. the efforts made by the police in connection with the killing of mink. I think we need the huge, huge work that has been done over the last eight months by our authorities, including the police, to be recognised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151134	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151135	I do not think there is anyone here in the Folketing who does not recognise the enormous efforts of both the defence and the police and is grateful for that. What is the problem here, Minister of Justice, is that the government does not recognise that the law has been violated. It is the recognition that we lack. That is why I would like to ask: now that the Minister of Justice, in his reply to Mr. Peter Skaarup says that it was not quite clear that there was no legal basis, but that there was some kind of ambiguity which would then have to be clarified. That is what the situation on 1 October calls it, then, that at least it is certain whether there is a legal basis before proceeding? In other words, are there any considerations that the Minister of Justice can list here that can justify consciously retaining ignorance and yet going further?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151231-2	What needs to be taken into account at the meeting in question was that this was an element which was not discussed and which, moreover, comes back to what I said earlier, namely that it is also clear from the case that there must be technical clarification of the legal basis. So we are not saying that there is no legal basis, nor are we saying that there is a legal basis, we are saying that this should be clarified if we get there at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151259	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151300	So what we are told here is that on 1 October it was known that there might be no legal basis, and no action was taken to clarify it clearly against the illegal order. Because there was an illegal order, and there was no legal basis for it. So 1 October was not convinced whether it was legal or illegal. Can the Minister of Justice, from his legal period of study, perhaps recall that it is a bit like what we call dolus eventualis, in other words, accepting that there is a risk of doing something illegal? And does the Minister of Justice agree that this is one of the intentions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151337-2	I agree that dolus eventualis is the lowest degree of intention. I certainly do not agree that there should be a degree of determination here not to make sure that there is a legal basis, certainly not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151351	I have to say that when I hear the Minister for Justice, I have some doubts as to what actually happened at that meeting on 1 October. For the Minister says here, on the one hand, that there were some technical things to be clarified, but on the other hand, we are not told, at least not by the Minister today, whether or not we have tried to clarify the technical issues. And I would like to ask whether there has been any attempt to clarify this in the light of what the Minister is saying today. Has an attempt been made by the Ministry of Justice to clarify whether it was legal or not, if there were any doubts about it at all? I would also like to say that it has now become the case that the Minister says that we can no longer call the Minister for Justice's order an order. Is it then the same technical problem that is around these explanations, where most people might think that it was actually an order? For they did it, for they had to put these minks to death.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151448	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151449	What kind of order did I give you?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151458	We do not get an answer to that question because the question has been answered. But we move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice and asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151509	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151511	I was so surprised that I got a question that I had to find out where the question I am going to read now is. But it is here: what did the Minister do within the government, including in relation to the Prime Minister, to make known the lack of legal basis for the execution of healthy mink, which was submitted to the Minister on 1 October by the Covid-19 Committee of the Government, in order to put an end to the illegal order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151536	Well, when I asked the question, it was because I knew that we had the opportunity to continue talking on the exact same track. That is why I would like to repeat: what kind of order have I given? I have a duty of truth. Everyone else should, in fact, at least aim to hit the truth. Well, thank you for the floor, and thank you for the question. That is basically the same question as before. There is no reason to say that, in the light of the two paragraphs of the Covid-19 Committee, quoted in the report, the ministries, including myself, knew that there was no legal basis for killing all minks. As I explained in the answer to the previous question, the first paragraph of the question, quoted in the statement, does not make it clear which elements require legislation. And from the second section it cannot be deduced that there was no legal basis for killing mink in Denmark, but it had to be clarified whether there was already a legal basis or a need to introduce new legislation if later it was decided to kill all mink in Denmark. In addition, it was decided that a new decision document would be submitted to the government if the professional authorities considered that the development of infection in the mink herd should require further action. What was that order I gave you?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151639	Thank you for the question. The Minister obviously thinks that I should answer questions and also believes that members of parliament are covered by a law of ministerial responsibility. I can tell you that MPs aren't. Only ministers should follow the law of ministerial responsibility. That is why, of course, Members of Parliament can speak the truth anyway, and so do we. But what remains, I think, when the Minister answers here, is that we have a situation in which, at a meeting on 1 October, the Minister considers that it would be legal or not to kill all healthy minks. That is what the Minister thinks there are doubts as to where the rest of us are saying that it is quite clear from the things we can see that we cannot just do that. Then the Minister says: no, there are doubts about that, it needs to be clarified, it needs to be assessed technically. That is what the Minister is saying here in the Folketing today. Then I say: OK, let us now imagine that it is the case that it should be technically assessed, legally assessed, that there is an outstanding problem here. What, then, is the Minister doing in his own ministry to prevent or stop action being taken on the basis of the PM's illegal order or decision? What is the Minister doing in his system to prevent or stop illegal action from taking place on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151819	In fact, I did not say that members of parliament are subject to the duty of truth. I said that ministers are subject to the duty of truth. But I said that it would suit Members of Parliament to speak the truth, even in this case. I do not seem to know what kind of order I should have given, but of course we can return to another good time; I am sure we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter a great deal further. I do not think that the meeting of the Covid-19 Committee on 1 October really does not give the opportunity to draw the conclusions to which the questioner is referring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151858	In the debate on orders or not, I would say that the minkers who listen to what the Prime Minister and the Government say at that press conference have no doubt about what to do. They have no doubt about what to do: they must put their mink down. And then the minister can say it's not an order, but what is it? Well, that looks like an order. You do what you have to do, in the opinion of the government. I would just like to ask: does the Minister for Justice really think that it is right that we should continue with something that is not legal, just because we are referring to public health?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151936	Just for the sake of completeness, I would like to say that I did not attend the press conference, as long as I was ill at the time of that press conference. I probably wouldn't have taken part if I'd been well either. It's just that we shouldn't get mixed up, who has played what roles in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202151955	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152002	After all, it is very tempting to enter into the debate on what an order is. And under what circumstances is it to be given? Can it be done at a press conference? Can it be done in a press release? I believe that the Minister for Justice, if not the Minister for Justice himself, saw several colleagues of the Minister for Justice have had views that this is an order when it takes place in press release form, but not in press meetings, I understand. But I am not going to bow to the temptation, but I am going to stick to this question. After all, we were established before the Minister of Justice acknowledged that on 1 October it was unclear whether there was a legal basis. Well, it wasn't certain that there wasn't a legal home, but it wasn't certain that there was a legal home either. And there it is, of course, that the moment we agree that the fact that one positively maintains oneself in ignorance is one of the willful delicts we got to know just before relevant and interesting: what did the Minister of Justice then do on October 1st to spread the knowledge of the government that it was unclear whether there was a legal basis for the expropriation of the mink profession that was being carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152102	I took the appropriate decision in this context, namely to move there and to clarify whether the necessary legal basis was in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152113	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152115	So what went wrong there? What is happening from then on, when the appropriate decision is made, until the expropriation is carried out without ensuring that there is a legal basis? In other words, if you decide on 1 October that the ambiguity must be cleared away and you have a month until you issue the illegal order, then we know that we know it, and the Minister of Justice does not dispute it, it is regrettable, and that is the case, how can it be, if you seek clarification already on 1 October, that there will be no clarification? So before you see, apparently knowing that there is a problem, the illegal order is issued by whoever is the sender of the order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152153-2	I have reservations about that with the order; then we do not have to discuss it any more, nor do we have to discuss the unlawfulness of it. But some of what is also the conclusion in this context is that at the meeting of the K Committee, the relevant minister responsible for the matter should have raised his hand and said: there is a legal problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152217	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152219	Well, I have to admit that I think it paints a picture of a government that doesn't really keep an eye on what's happening. Because it is said at some point that there is a need for some technical clarification that is what the Minister is saying here today and that it cannot therefore just be concluded that it was illegal to do so after the meeting on 1 October. Then there has to be some technical clarification. And then it's just that I'm thinking, "Why don't you clarify that?" I mean, why is there no one, and I ask the Minister whether what was going on was legal or illegal? I mean, I only see it as an attempt to wipe off the responsibility of some officials, but the reality is that the government has not done its job.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152308	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152310	I simply do not agree with that. As far as the question of clarification is concerned, part of what is recognised as a problem in this case is that the relevant minister in the K Committee should have raised his hand and said: there is a situation here that we have to deal with. That is one of the things that has been regretted in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152330	Thank you. The question has been answered. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, but has been asked by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152341	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152343	Thank you for that, President. My question is this: what is the Minister's position that driving schools and their pupils continue to experience unacceptable long waiting times on driving tests, despite clear promises from the government to improve the situation, at the latest in consultation on 1 September 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152403	Thank you for the question. Of course, it should not be the case that driving school pupils who are ready to go to driving tests should wait an unreasonable amount of time to get there. As the questioner also points out, it was the Kingdom police's expectation that waiting times would look better by the end of the year, as we are undoubtedly approaching. Unfortunately, it has been found that several Zealandic circles, i.e.. Copenhagen Police, Central and West Zealand Police and North Zealand Police, continue to face challenges with long waiting times. This is despite the fact that most Zealandic circles have delivered several practical tests in October compared to October last year. The problems remain the greatest in the Copenhagen Police Department. The National Police have reported that the Copenhagen Police are constantly trying to allocate additional resources to the area and that the circle is focusing on reducing waiting times on driving tests. Furthermore, as I also mentioned in the consultation, almost every second student is still failing in Copenhagen, which requires an even greater supply of driving tests, thereby increasing the pressure on the timings even more. It is clear that this is an unsustainable situation which we must try to contain as soon as possible. The National Police have confirmed that at the moment the police circles must try to do just that. For example, the Copenhagen Police Department has released driving test experts by using civilian staff for theoretical tests, just as the Copenhagen Police Department currently has four driving test experts during training. The Nordsjælland Police Department is further training two driving examiners. The National Police Department has also stated that it is uncertain whether the Central and West Zealand Police and the North Zealand Police Department as expected will be able to meet the service target by the end of the year, but it is expected that this will happen as soon as possible. As promised in the conciliation on 1 September this year, I will inform the Committee on Transport of the status and development of the timetables before the end of the year. Of course, I intend to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152556-2	Thank you for your answer. After all, the conciliation on 1 September was on a very serious basis, and I am also pleased that the Minister recognises that the situation is unsustainable. But I am getting regular reports from the field, if I may say so, in the form of driving schools which are joining, and I can take some just here from the recent past: that there is still many weeks of waiting for driving schools and their pupils, with the resultant extra costs and major problems. That driving tests, which should have been carried out here in the area, take place on Bornholm, Lolland-Falster and even in Jutland in large numbers. The fact that 100 driving tests have been cancelled in North Zealand since September has therefore been cancelled, and it is not exactly something that helps the situation and that 200 theoretical tests were laid out this morning alone, which had been torn away in a few seconds, and they do not cover the need at all. That is why I have to ask the Minister if it is not possible to get a little closer than it is to be nearest and so on. Because the situation is distressing, not only for drivers, but indeed for their students as well. It is a great many people that this is about and that it affects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152705	I fully acknowledge the problem, and when the questioner mentions those examples, I can just say that my own son, and we live in Hillerød, had to go to Nakskov to take his theory test. It was then at 8:00. 8:00 in the morning, which meant that he had to drive down there. Of course he must not until he has his driver's license, but he was driven down there in the evening and had to have an overnight stay in Nakskov in order to go to the theory test the next day. And I know that right now, even for him, it is also incredibly difficult to get to the practical test in Hillerød. So I fully acknowledge the problem. But I also think it has to be said that, on many parameters, the National Police are trying to fight to make things better. But I fully acknowledge the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152747	Thank you. But when I raise it again, it's because you can't feel any kind of improvement out there. Well, I hear the police are trying to do it, and that's good. But you just don't feel any difference, and that's what's despondent. Also around large driving licences, major problems are reported: driving licences for bus drivers and truck drivers, and this has negative consequences for business. That is why I have to hear the Minister, if we are not out there, that we need to go a little more firmly to this as a minister, because it is a question of allocating resources to solve an important task.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152823	I think that is basically true. Well, I actually think that if you cut to the bone, this is going to be a resource issue. It is taking hold, and I mentioned some of them: the use of civilian staff for the theoretical tests, the preparation of more test experts, etc. But I think the questioner is right that this is also a resource issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152850	I have no doubt that the Minister has good intentions in this matter. However, there is a lot of talk about orders and non-orders in this time. We have heard that before today in this Chamber. So is it not time for the Minister simply to give an order that this should now be resolved? It is about a very important social function: it is about road safety, driving licences. This is something that really has to work and people pay for it themselves. Is it not time for an order to be issued that this should now be made to work, even in the intervening period, which goes until the task is to be elsewhere, namely in the Customs Authority, can we expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152927	It may well be that it would help if I issued an order. I think we need to look at the initiatives that have been taken. And then I think that one of the grip we are going to use is also to consider whether this is the right place, which is one of the elements involved in the negotiations for a new agreement for our police and prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202152952	Thank you. Then that question has been answered. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, asked by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153005	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153006	Thank you, President. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that the Ministry of Justice's new interpretation of section 70 of the Constitution, cf. Annex 4 to motion for a resolution (Doc. B 32 from the 2019-20 parliamentary year, also jeopardises the support for the German schools in the border country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153024	Thank you for the floor. The document referred to in the question is the Ministry of Justice's note of 16 June of this year on B 32. In the notice, it is estimated that B 32 to exclude State aid to certain free schools, where more than half of the pupils have a foreign background, does not raise questions in relation to Paragraph 70 of the Constitution. The consequence of this assessment is that Paragraph 70 of the Constitution does not prevent the Danish Parliament from deciding to introduce legislation which excludes State aid to free schools, where more than half of the pupils have foreign backgrounds. But just because the Folketing has an opportunity to adopt a law within the framework of the constitution does not mean that the Folketing should do so. The interpretation of the Basic Law does not in itself alter the rules on the right of free schools to state aid. In addition to this, the important point, which can also be read in the notice from the Ministry of Justice, is that it remains the assessment that the system proposed in motion in motion for a resolution is still in place. B 32 will raise important issues in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. I can therefore reassure the questioner that neither the Constitutional Law nor the Ministry of Justice's interpretation of the Constitution jeopardises the support of the German schools in the border country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153144	Well, I'm really glad to hear that the Minister of Justice can respond to such a relatively clear answer in this Chamber. The reason why I have asked the question is that the government has, at this very moment, basically raised doubts as to whether the government will support the international schools in Denmark; whether the government will support the schools of the minority; whether the government will support schools that can have a religious basis. And this is not just due to the interpretation of the constitution and the notice that I am asking about it. This is also due to the reports made by the Social Democratic Party before the elections. When I also need clear answers from the government in relation to the support for the German minority schools, it is because we have just seen examples of the government saying that it wants to safeguard the institutions of the German minority, but at the same time there is a draft law in consultation that has been proposed that German services should no longer be held in German in Denmark and that the services of other institutions should not be held in their language. We saw a financial agreement last year, in which it was decided to say that better standards should not be ensured for self-serving and private institutions in Denmark, which has actually resulted in 11 out of the 19 German kindergartens now receiving less support than other institutions in Denmark. And that is fundamentally completely against the agreements we have made with both the Copenhagen Declaration and the Bonn Declaration, in other words the agreements that we have committed ourselves to in order to ensure that our national linguistic minorities are actually equated with the majority population. That is also why I am asking the Minister for Justice today very clearly, in view of whether we can be absolutely sure that, as with other legislative proposals, there will not suddenly be legislative proposals on the part of the government, thereby endangering the institutions of the German minority, in this case in the school sector, as a result of the change in the interpretation of the constitution made by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153346	I would like to arrest the premise that the minority in the border area is not being properly treated. In fact, in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, we have done a great deal to ensure that there is a possibility of continued cross-border traffic, even in a situation where it might well be said, purely in terms of health care, that this could be more restrictive. So I do not agree with the premise. However, it has to be said that if the questioner's nervousness were to be believed, the questioner could take comfort in saying that, as I said earlier, it would raise important issues in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153428-2	Yeah, and I'm glad the Minister of Justice says that. The Minister of Justice has also said so in the answers to some of the questions that have been answered, and it may be that we will also get that answer tomorrow when we have a resolution which is a re-submission of the B 32, which originally gave rise to the notice. However, when I ask in the Chamber today, it is because we have repeated examples that, as the Minister also says, the government cares about the institutions of the German minority, but so specifically in relation to legislation, both in relation to nursery schools and in relation to services, nevertheless does something else. That is why I think it is also important that the Minister of Justice and the rest of the government, and not just individual ministers of the Council, should also commit themselves in accordance with the obligations we have in relation to our national minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153511	The questioner himself has also been a minister and therefore knows what it means to have a resort and not to have a resort. The part of the border issue that affects my region is, above all, in these times the question of the possibility of cross-border travel, where I think we have endeavoured to ensure that there could be as normal interaction as possible, including in a very, very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153532	It is quite true that after a long period of time, when concrete blocks were placed at the border crossings between Denmark and Germany, and when there was airtight closure, people were not able to visit their family members. Fortunately, even after pressure from my colleagues, they managed to open up, and we were happy about that. There should just have been from the beginning, and that is actually why I am raising the issue today in relation to the notice that the Ministry of Justice has made. Time and again, we find that it is some others that need to bring in the concerns about the institutions of the German minority, because it is not part of the government's first proposal or the first legislative proposal, for example. in the field of worship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153613	I do not agree with that. And I also think that, in relation to the issues raised, one can be reassured that, although there is an opportunity to put forward legislative proposals, there is no obligation to put forward legislative proposals. Moreover, the protection provided by the European Convention on Human Rights can be a source of comfort.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153630	The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister of Justice and to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. The next question is to the Minister for Health and the Elderly and has been asked by Mr. Peder Hvelplund with Mrs. Rosa Lund as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153641	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153642	Thank you. The question to the Minister for Health is: In view of the fact that 0 of the estimated 25,000 illegal migrants in Denmark have used the offer of coronatest and isolation facilities, will the Minister ensure that illegal migrants can be guaranteed anonymity by both testing and isolation, such as: The Red Cross recommends that they not subsequently risk a return?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153707	Thank you for the question. As the questioner knows, this is a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. I have therefore obtained contributions from them. First of all, it is emphasised that there are both test possibilities and isolation facilities for illegal migrants. Illegal migrants, on an equal footing with others without a Danish social security number, can take advantage of the test offers made available to foreigners, for example. At the same time, they will be able to use the running test function where tests are offered for example. socially vulnerable persons. The government has ensured that a bed, food and health offer can be made available to those who have no place to live or go in isolation and who are dependent on the Foreigners' Agency. And I have been informed that the Foreigners' Agency does not have the possibility to offer accommodation or health services outside the asylum centre system within the current rules. Having said that, it is clear that we have a dilemma here: we must give priority to the health of society within the framework of living in a rule of law, and vice versa we should not just turn a blind eye when authorities come into contact with people who are here illegally. That is why foreigners who are illegally staying in Denmark, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has already said in the establishment of the effort, must not, of course, be here. That does not change Corona and I must refer to the minister concerned for further questions about the residence of foreigners in Denmark. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202153838	However, it is no coincidence that we are raising the question with the Minister for Health. It's because there's a health issue in this. We have been in complete agreement with the government in the way of dealing with corona, i.e. in having a precautionary strategy and in focusing on the vulnerable and vulnerable groups. But now there are 25,000 illegal migrants here in Denmark. At least that is what the ROCKWOOL Foundation estimates, and it is people who go out on the street and with whom we travel by bus and who shop in the same places as we do and who live in the cities we also live in. They're people we can infect, and they're people who can infect us. It is therefore a good thing that both isolation facilities and testing facilities are provided. But when it turns out that there is no one out of the 25,000 people who use it, then it should be a cause for concern. If what is necessary for them to be tested and isolated is that they run the risk of getting a single ticket out of the country, then it is no wonder that they do not use it. However, this poses a health challenge, and that is why both the Red Cross and the Gadejuristen and the Council of Social Affairs Ministers are calling for a free-ride system to be set up so that they have just the opportunity to turn to us so that we can ensure that they are tested and isolated. The Corona virus knows we don't really care what status people have. It spreads no matter what, and that is why we must also ensure that the people who are in society have the opportunity both to be tested and isolated, and I think, in particular, that given the increased levels of infection we are now seeing here in the metropolitan area, there should be an opportunity to say that we must, of course, ensure that those people have the same opportunity to be tested and isolated. That is why I should like to ask the Minister for Health whether, from a health point of view, the Minister for Health will not weigh public health on the grounds of paternal immigration legislation and ensure that there will be a free passage system for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154044-2	I do not want to, and I think it would have some very, very unfortunate implications. But when it comes to testing, this group of people can take advantage of these running test functions, such as: is designed to test socially vulnerable people, including homeless people, for covid-19, and this also applies to foreigners without a Danish social security number. Tourists etc. It is also possible to make use of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154114	But now that organisations such as the Gadejuristen, the Council of the Socialist Left and the Red Cross are directly recommending a free-riding system to ensure that there is a systematic offer to these people, is it not essential that we give priority to public health and ensure that we can help to reduce the spread of infection that exists? There we know that both testing and isolation are absolutely essential, so should we not, from the point of view of health, offer this system to these people as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154146-2	No, because these people are people who are here illegally. These are people who have no right to be here. That's what the situation is. We have a group of people who have been refused to be here. They are therefore in one way or another illegally staying here in Denmark, and therefore they should not be here. If you have the right to be here, you also have the right to all the benefits that generations before us have built up, and I think that is a beautiful and right principle. But I also think it is a right principle that if you are here illegally, you are not supposed to be here anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154218	Thank you. Then it's co-questioner Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154219	Thank you. As always, I tried very hard to listen to what the Minister said, and it is quite right that you can choose to be tested if you are in Denmark illegally. You can use these mobile test stations. The problem is that if the test turns out to be positive, you do not go into isolation because you do not dare to go into isolation because you are afraid to be thrown out of the country. Then we have a health problem, for like my good colleague Mr. Peder Hvelplund just said, these people are on the street like the rest of us and they use the same facilities, both shopping places, but also public squares, parks etc. So I cannot understand why it is not for health reasons that we are setting up a free-for-all system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154313	I do not know the actual figure. Sir. Peder Hvelplund mentioned a very, very high figure, namely 25,000 illegal immigrants, but it is a high figure we have in Denmark. This is not high compared with many other countries, including many other European countries, but it is a high figure. I believe that in many ways it is very problematic to have such a high number of residents illegally in the country. And some countries have much, much higher figures, and they have even greater health problems, social problems, labour market problems, cultural problems and crime problems. There are a lot of problems, and that is why my answer is the same as before, and that is why we do not agree. That's how it must be. My answer is that if you are here legally and have the right to be here, we have free tests, we have a health service that helps, and we even have free isolation. If you're here illegally, you shouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154410	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154411	But we are just in the situation where there are some people who are here illegally, and there is a very clear reason why we should ask the Minister for Health and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration about this. For the discussion and resolution we would like to have does not, in fact, deal with the question of how we ensure that there are fewer people staying illegally in Denmark. The resolution and the discussion we want are about how to ensure the health of all of us; how to ensure that fewer people are infected. And since these people are here, shouldn't we make sure they could safely go to isolation like all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154447	Yeah, and I guess those people can go into isolation, too. There is a possibility of testing, and there is also the possibility of going into isolation. However, if the questioner thinks that we should give free accommodation and board in hotels to people who are completely illegal and who have no basis in any way, then I have to say that I do not agree with that. I think that would lead to the opposite, namely that we would make the problem grow further rather than contain the problem and that there would be even more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154521	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154522	Thank you. Now I know the Minister for Health well enough that the Minister for Health knows that the virus doesn't really care what kind of status you have. The spread of infection is going to take place, and so I would like to ask the Minister again: since we have the knowledge we know that these people are here, and we know that they are helping to help both to get infected and carry on the infection, why is it that we do not have to ensure that we stop the infection chains, which are, of course, our primary task right now? And then we can discuss whether these people should be here or not. We can discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but we can discuss with the Minister for Health that they are here and that we need to break the chains of infection that arise. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154609	I fully agree with that part. That is also one of the reasons why we have a running test function, among other things. to vulnerable persons, especially homeless people, that is to say, precisely the group mentioned here. They may avail themselves of testing offers. This offer is also made available to tourists and other foreigners without a Danish social security number, so that is possible. I would therefore appeal to everyone who has symptoms or any other reason to be tested, and that applies to all people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154642	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund and Mrs. Rosa Lund. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154652	Thank you very much. Does the Minister agree that the warning of the failure to authorise the killing of healthy mink outside the so-called safety zones received by the Minister in the Covid-19 Committee of the Government on 1 October should have led the Minister to prevent the illegal order issued by the Government at the press conference on 4 November?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154714	No, I'm not. I simply do not agree with the premise of this question. And I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the statement sent by the Ministry of the Environment and Food on the lack of powers to extend the previous work on the killing of mink to the whole country. As is clear from that statement, the matter contained precisely that the Covid-19 Committee of the Government dealt with the wording on 1 October, and I quote: the Ministry also assesses MFVM's statement, and I would rather read that such an approach requires a change in legislation in this area. Quote out. However, that sentence relates to various measures, for example: killing all mink in Denmark, possibly combined with a temporary or permanent ban on the holding and breeding of mink. And this is, of course, supported by the fact that, prior to this sentence in the case, it was quoted: should the development of infection develop further, more far-reaching measures such as: the killing of all mink in Denmark, possibly combined with a temporary or permanent ban on the holding and breeding of mink could be considered. It should therefore be stressed here that these are examples of measures that could be considered. And the matter also contained the following wording, and I quote again: the Ministry of the Environment and Food, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and the Elders prepare the technical clarification of the necessary legal basis if a decision is subsequently taken on the killing of all mink herds in a geographical area or throughout the country. Quote out. This means that the three ministries would prepare a clarification of the necessary legal basis if a decision were to be taken later on on the killing of mink in a geographical area or, for example, in the area of the environment. in Denmark as a whole. So these are examples of possible future actions when the case involved killing in a geographical area or throughout the country. And so it can be both the killing of mink in a geographical area or the temporary prohibition of mink or permanent etc. And that is very clear from the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154920	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154921	That is to say, when this message was received on 1 October, the ministers sitting around the table thought that you could go out and kill all mink crews, whether they were healthy or sick throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202154941	No, it is also clear from the statement that the question of the legal basis for further extension of the killing effort is not being discussed at the meeting, because that was not the decision, and there is therefore no reason to address the matter at the meeting of the Covid-19 Committee of the Government on 1 October as a warning of the lack of a legal basis for killing all minks in Denmark. It was first necessary, as I quoted, to clarify what measures would be taken. That is why there is no justification for this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155009-2	I ask, of course, because when you read from a statement there is a great deal of information, and that is why I would just like it to be clarified in relation to what is being said. But when we know that there has been a warning or that there may be something that needs to be investigated, it is of course puzzling to all people that more than a month later you go out as Prime Minister and say: All mink must be put to death. And the next day, the police will start. What has the Minister done after the famous day, October 1st, when it could be seen that there might be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155050	However, as I have said, it is very clear in this case, and it has been stated in the report that there would be a review, for example, that these measures should be relevant. Therefore, the system must work so that they carry out such an assessment and put it forward, it should be relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155118	But there was no legal basis for that. That's what we're discussing. I mean, you had to re-treat, but did you have it ready when you went out and said that all the minks had to be put to death, where you already started the day after 3 November when you agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155138	Well, as the statement also shows, it is precisely the case that there is a technical clarification of the necessary legal basis, if this becomes relevant. That is why it is up to the concrete Secretary of State to clarify this, to ensure that this happens and to bring it to the attention of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155203	Thank you. Then that question has been answered. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health and the Elderly by Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155214	Fortunately, we can continue. What did the Minister do within the government, including in relation to the Prime Minister, to make known the lack of legal basis for the killing of healthy mink, which was submitted to the Minister on 1 October by the Covid-19 Committee of the Government, in order to put an end to the illegal order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155233-2	Thank you for that question too. It is, of course, closely linked to the last question we have just dealt with here. First of all, of course, I would like to refer again to the statement by the Ministry of the Environment and Food on the whole question of legal bases. However, I would also like to focus on and reiterate that the text of the statement shows that it is not clear what the unresolved legal basis relates to. Thus it can be both the killing of mink in a geographical area, the killing of mink throughout Denmark, a possible temporary ban on mink breeding or a permanent ban on both team and mink breeding. I would add that it is clear from the statement that, among other things, at the meeting. a decision was taken that the government would be presented with a new basis for decision if the professional authorities considered that the development of disease in the mine required the implementation of further measures. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the government is aware that the decision to put the mines down is a serious intervention for those whose businesses and life's work are affected, and I would like to express my deepest sympathy for that. The decision was necessary. Mistakes have been made along the way, these mistakes are regretted, and that is also appropriate. But that does not change the fact that it is a serious intervention for the people who are affected by it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155356	After all, we have been in our follow-up group and have just been told something when there was mink that infected or where the virus mutated etc., which is why it must also have been in the role of the Minister of Health to ensure that there was also a legal basis for doing something at these mink farms. I know that there was another resort, but you are also in a coordination committee where you have to coordinate with each other, and if you are told that it needs to be looked into, you are also a little bit more on your toes in order to find out whether it is legal to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155433	I can answer that I became aware of the problem of the lack of legal basis in relation to the fact that the Minister for Food contacted the rapporteurs during the weekend. This is not something that can be laid down in the laws for which I am responsible, so that is the way I became aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155502	It seems a little strange, and I think that in a government you have a duty and a responsibility, no matter what minister you are. There is today a letter in Jyllands-Posten, written by a lecturer who teaches young people in social science and right and duty. She says she doesn't know how to teach the young people, for: "In a textbook it says: "In a rule of law a general principle of legal certainty applies. This means that citizens are protected against attacks by the state. So I'm thinking, isn't it something that the Minister for Health is also concerned about, that actually has the greatest responsibility in this government when we speak corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155543	Yes, it is. We have said from the outset that we are on unfettered grounds, that there are many things we have not tried before in Denmark, including the decision on mink and to implement it. I am still completely convinced that this was a necessary decision, and that is also what our experts are still saying. Nevertheless, mistakes will be made and mistakes have been made, and the minister in question has resigned for the same reason. And I am both deeply unhappy that he withdrew, but of course also that the mistake was made, not least in relation to the mink growers, but also in relation to the whole of society. For those mistakes, we must do everything we can because we are not committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155627	I wonder, because you are one of the governments with the most advisers and officials employed, and I know that you cannot have everything in your head, but your duty is also to hire some people who can advise you correctly. So I think you have a responsibility no matter what, and whether you say: well, it is the other minister who has done it. No, you are a government, and you do it together to all the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155656	Thank you. I just want to point out that you and yours are also directly indicted. It's just in the plural. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155703	The minister. Thank you. I must then make every effort to say the right thing. I would like to say to the questioner that the purely medical justification for the resolution is fully in line with my objective. The specific legislation and the legal framework that was lacking are the responsibility of another ministry, and these statements show this very, very clearly. It can also be seen that the draft law which is being discussed in the Folketing is also the responsibility of another minister, the minister to whom it belongs. And that is why the division of responsibilities is that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155736	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt and to the Minister for Health and the Elderly. The next question, No. 423 to the Minister for Children and Education, and that is what Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155806	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155808	Thank you, President. Will the Minister take the initiative to offer the SPS to all Fgu students and will the Minister bring the proposal into the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202155810	Thank you for the question. One can say that fucking away is still a relatively new type of education, and that is why it is of course something the government will continuously follow, and that is why I think it is too early to say whether one should finally go one way or another and whether one has finally landed at the right levels. The students have the same opportunity to apply for SPS assistance as the students in the youth programmes. Some of the students will probably also need support lessons in teaching, and there is no possibility to apply for SPS, so it is just like the part we are talking about. And it is because it is already thought into the design of the fgu and, incidentally, also of the economy behind the fgu that it is part of the inclusive learning environment itself, because it is a different target group than when we talk about the other youth education programmes. So this has been taken into account in the form of higher tariffs; one simply gets a larger amount per. This is in order to say that there will be a need for such a large group of pupils that we see it as part of the basic tariffs themselves on the ground. On average, therefore, the institutions also receive approx. 12% more per This is why it has not been one of the government's priorities now, in the context of the draft budget, for the Fgu students to have additional hours of support than the extra 12% set aside in relation to the past. But of course the government will not reject it; that is to say, we must also see how the fucking thing is developing, and we have already allocated more money to the fucking guy earlier this year in connection with the fact that we thought there might well be a need for a boost. So it's just to say that I don't think we're done talking about fucking bullshit. We also have it up to the next meeting here on 8 December, and I look forward to discussions on this subject as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160002	Thank you, Minister. I think you'll be really sad out there when the Minister doesn't want to bring it into the financial law negotiations. As the Minister knows, and I am also quite sure that the Minister is concerned about it, I am very damn close. They have had a huge, difficult start-up: vuc students, production school students and also some from these municipal offers. It has been a huge exercise just to get started with all the work on the important youth work here. And then the corona has put down such a huge muffler. The students were sent home, and then they had to return, and it has been difficult to find internships, and the student composition is also difficult to challenge. I am sure the Minister knows that too. I also believe that the Minister is aware that FGU Denmark has in fact made its own study of how many students are having difficulty and how many should actually have more help. I am aware that the decision to make a fucking taximeter was adopted which was higher, but here it just calls for us to help these fucking fucking students. And I would like to hear the Minister say this, so that we will discuss it as soon as possible, when it is obviously not part of the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160128	As Minister, I have not said that this is not part of the financial law negotiations. I told you, it's not part of the government's financial bill. But what is being negotiated in the context of the financial law negotiations is not what I am talking about. It is being negotiated, which means that what is going on at the table there, I do not think we should be discussing here, nor is it usually good tone. I would say that earlier this year, and it is not a joke that we have done so, I sent a piece of paper to the Parliamentary Assembly and I received, incidentally, and thank you for that, the Left's support for the idea of adding another 57.2 million. kr. It is precisely on the basis of the problems we know there are at the beginning. And let me just be specific about this: i.e., in relation to what you got on avu, fvu, obu, kuu, production school courses and agu, i.e. the old courses that fucking replace, you get 11,190 kr. more per year-old student in grants. That's 165 million. kr. for the whole fgu area. This was therefore the starting point for the reform of the economy. And then on top of that, we added this 57.2 million. kr. And it can be said that the first part is precisely devoted because we know that we are dealing with a student group that needs a more inclusive learning environment and therefore per year. definition needs the extra support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160249	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160251	Thank you for that, President. Now I am also burdened with having been part of the production school world and know the target group or the young people who come there. And I've seen how big problems and challenges they have. I admit that what has been brought over to start with on fucking funds has been higher. I'd like to sign for that. But I also think we simply need to help the association out there and the teachers who are looking at a student composition that is difficult to challenge. So I would like to hear: if it is not possible to help the FGU Denmark with SPS support through the financial law negotiations, is it not the case that the Minister is authorised to make that decision himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160343	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160345	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council. As I did previously, with the support of the Left, 57.2 million were sent. kr. We have the opportunity to negotiate and undo extra money and make additional subsidies. That is to say, it is not necessarily tied up in a financial bill debate; that depends on the circumstances. So it can be said that earlier this year it was quite a few months ago we have also set aside a quite large extra amount of money. So, yes, you can. I would like to say to the Left, and now we have it at the meeting here on 8 December, that if we are going to look at it on a relatively regular basis and have also sent extra money, it is because we have a desire to get the fuck out of here properly, and we thought the amount they had received was too small. That's why we dropped extra money off. If you had to go in and carve out the SPS independently, as is suggested in this question, I would be sorry if it meant, at the same time, that you lost the money you had already been given to it. And that's why I'm not sure it's the best solution. But I think we should discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160447	Then it is the questioner with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160450	Thank you. In fact, I believe that it is a paradox out there that fgu students cannot get SPS help, but when they go to vocational training, they can actually get it. That's one. The second is that I think we really need to look at whether the meter in this area should either be increased separately from the SPS, or that the meter should generally be increased, because they have a difficult target group out there. Hopefully, the Minister will also know this through the studies carried out by the FGU Denmark itself. So I hope the Minister will take this up quite quickly. I think we need to help in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160533	Well, it's a little bit of light bulbs and bananas here, because when a student comes from fgu, he gets to eud, yes, then he can get SPS support hours. But that's because there's a lot less teaching power per year. student on eud. After all, it is calculated into the fgu's economy that there must be more teachers, because the students who are there need additional support as a starting point. That's why you can't really compare the two. For the extra support comes precisely because it is not built into their economy in advance and there is therefore no power for the students on eud without additional support coming in. However, it is not a rejection of the fact that it may well be that we should go in and look at the fgu economy. We have made a commitment on the part of the government that we want to do so, and we have it at the meeting here on 8 December. I am therefore also pleased that we will have the opportunity to discuss this in this Chamber. I think it is equally important for us to get the fucking thing moving properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160625	Thank you to the questioner, sir. Stén Knuth, and thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European Then we come to a bunch of Conservative questioners, but they'll ask the Secretary of Defense. And the first questioner is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160640	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister acknowledge that the deployment of the defence in the so-called operation mink killing has been seen in an ordering manner among minkkeepers, despite the fact that the Prime Minister's order turned out to be illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160655	Let me start by making one thing clear: the defense hasn't killed mink. No soldiers have been deployed to kill mink, and there has not been an operation mink killing. The involvement of the defence has consisted in supporting the food authorities. This has been done on the basis of section 7 of the Defence Act and on that basis the work coordinated under the direction of the National Police is coordinated in the national operational staff, the NIST. The defence may, at short notice, be provided with manpower and resources, a crew trained to act properly and properly towards others. The defense and defense soldiers haven't ordered anyone to do anything in this case. In fact, it is clear from the instructions given to the soldiers in advance of the task-solving, the so-called soldiers' card, that no power can be used to enforce the task-solving.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160750	What then is the position of the Minister that the defence continued to, let us say, assist the killing of mink, even though it had become clear that the Prime Minister's order was illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160803	The defense has not contributed to any illegal work. The defense has acted under section 7 of the Defence Act. There is therefore full authority for the tasks of the soldiers of the defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160820	But I guess we all agree that the order was illegal. We also agree that the soldiers who have been deployed in this operation have known about the lack of a legal basis. Or what is the Minister's position on this? Does the Minister think the soldiers have known about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160841	The defense has not participated in any illegal order. The work done by the defence is under section 7 of the Defence Act and the only new thing here is that the questioner makes it appear as if it is the defence that has contributed to the killing of mink. And the defense hasn't. The defense solves many different tasks, also in connection with corona, among others. a. In relation to transport, the Home Guard, manning of call centers, detection of infection, etc., this is therefore a perfectly legitimate work under section 7 of the Defence Act. So I don't recognize that the defense should have performed tasks for which there is no legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160926	The questioner, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160927	Thank you. I wonder if the Minister can understand if some of her soldiers might have the impression that they have contributed to something illegal here. There is also evidence that it can blind the reputation and reputation of the soldiers in the Danish population that they have participated in this. And what will the Minister do to build this trust and that the Minister will not be involved in sending his soldiers on illegal missions in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202160959	No soldiers have been deployed on illegal missions. No soldiers have been deployed on illegal missions. The only people who say so are the Conservative People's Party. And that is why I urge you not to tour around with allegations that are not right. Because that is what can, if necessary, fade the defence and the reputation of the soldiers. There are also no soldiers who may have been in doubt about the powers in relation to the tasks they have performed; they are described in the soldier's map and therefore I can urge that we stop touring with something that is simply not right. There has been full legal basis for the tasks carried out by the defence: Section 7 of the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161039	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of Here, too, is the questioner. Niels Flemming Hansen of the Conservative People's Party, and the Minister is the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161052	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161053	Does the Minister believe that there has been a rapid response once the Chamber Attorney has been started to check that the ISS is complying with the contract with the Defence for Service Delivery only last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161106	Yeah, I mean that. And I would like to correct the mistake that something has happened first in this matter with the involvement of the DA, because that is not right. Since the start of the contract in 2018, the Danish Property Agency has been working to make the contract with ISS work. Most recently, an office has been established in the Danish Property Agency, where on a daily basis and in coordination with the ISS, action is being taken to improve ISS services. This means that local staff are assigned to the places of employment, which follow up on the services ordered and provided. However, I have considered that we have now come to a point where there is a need to escalate the case further, and therefore solutions need to be found that go beyond the contract management that the Danish Property Agency has carried out so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161155	Thank you very much. We hear stories of dead animals in bed drawers, and we hear stories of bad food, poor cleaning and sperm on sheets. We also know that the contract describes a service level, i.e. a level of service, a level of cleaning, which states that it needs to be clean, but that it does not necessarily have to be clean. What is the Minister's position on this in a coronatid, and what has the Minister done to remedy this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161227	I have just answered what I have been doing over the past year in order to rectify these matters. The contract with the ISS has been concluded under the previous government, of which I remember Conservatives themselves were part. The legal and financial terms of the contract are complex and are binding on both the ISS and the Danish Property Agency. What I think is important to bear in mind here is that, if there is no proper legal basis, the bill for a possible solution risks ending up with our soldiers and volunteers, and I do not think that is right. That is why last week I gave the Danish Property Agency an initial mandate to, together with the Attorney General, uncover the legal and financial conditions of various solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161312	Can the Minister confirm that on 3 September an offer was made by the ISS on how to get out of the contract and an offer on how to resolve the cooperation in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161328-2	A great many exercises have been done to solve the problems of cooperation which are obvious. A great many attempts have been made to do so, but the complaints remain there, and I do not think that is fair to our soldiers and volunteers who are doing really, really important tasks. That is why I have given the mandate that the Danish Property Agency, together with the Attorney General, will be able to identify the legal issues. But let me finally say that the bill must not end with our soldiers. The bill must not end with our soldiers, and you cannot just jump out of a contract in the middle of it, if that means that this is the money we need to spend on equipment for the soldiers and additional colleagues for the soldiers who will then have to cover the slip that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161414	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161415	Good. When does the Minister consider this problem to be resolved? We have 20,000 soldiers who get bad food, have dead animals in their bed drawers, etc. In addition, we have about 1,000 ISS employees, who also fear for their jobs. Can the Minister possibly give a thought or status as to when the Minister thinks this problem can be resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161444	Let me start by saying that there are very large differences in places of employment. Now I've visited a lot of them, actually pretty much all of them, and there's a lot, much difference between the levels around. We can also look at the complaints. There are some places where it works well and some places where it works badly. But, of course, what matters is the legal basis, because a contract is binding, and that is also why it is so important that we have a proper legal basis and do not base it here on opinions or opinions, or whether you like the food or not like the food, but base it on law and failure in the performance of the contract. That is why the legal basis is so crucial here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161520	That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, and we thank Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 18, which is also for the Secretary of Defense. The questioner is sir. Marcus Knuth also from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161536	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it was the right decision to deploy Danish soldiers in the so-called operation minkafløning, when it has subsequently been found that the Prime Minister's order to kill all mink in Denmark was illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161550	As I have just answered in a similar question from the author's party colleague, the food authorities chose to look against the defence because they needed help, just as the health authorities asked for help in the spring to test centres and call centres for example, because the defence can, at short notice, be provided with manpower and resources. The defense and Home Guard can support other authorities' task solution under Section 7 of the Defence Act, while the Emergency Management Authority can support under Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. The operational effort in relation to mink has been coordinated under the direction of the National Operational Staff, but there has therefore been full legal basis for the tasks carried out by the defence, namely Section 7 of the Defence Act and Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161636	I think that is a really bad answer. Now I tried to put some questions to the Minister last week, and the Minister completely ignored it. Now the Minister says that Conservatives are touring around with false accusations, but over the last week I have talked to a large number of journalists who have asked the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, and each time it is the same answer: no comment. So I hope that the Minister will give a clear answer to my questions today. My first very simple question is: who gave the order to send Danish soldiers out on farms with healthy mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161713	The legal issue discussed in other contexts is not the Defence support of the FDA on the basis of Section 7 of the Defence Act, and involving the defence soldiers in this discussion, i.e. on the overall legal basis for the killing of mink, of which the defence has not been part at all, is decisively to undermine confidence in one of our society's core institutions. And as the questioner with his previous background in the defence is aware, defence can contribute personnel and equipment when the situation is difficult, and so there has been a need for this. On the whole, I am proud of what the defence, preparedness and home defense have done here in the crisis in all possible areas, but I would like to reiterate that there has been a full legal framework for all tasks carried out by the defence, preparedness and home defense, namely Section 7 of the Defence Act and Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. Therefore, it does not make sense for the defence to enter into a discussion that there should be no legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161814	Frankly, Minister, my question was very simple: who gave the order to send Danish soldiers to farms with healthy mink? I myself, as the Minister says, have been in the defense. Soldiers don't go on a mission without a living person giving an order. Who gave that order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161831	I repeat once again that it simply does not make sense to mix the defence aid, whether it is call centers, infection detection, count mink or help to dispose of mink, into the big discussion about the killing of mink and the legal basis for it. The defense has operated under Section 7 of the Defence Act and the preparedness under Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. That's how it happens in a lot of contexts when the defense needs to go out and help solve tasks. Of course, it is ensured that there is a legal basis when the defence goes on assignments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161909	Now I try a third time: Who gave the order to send Danish soldiers out on farms with healthy mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202161918	Well, the defense has a broad piece of legislation that is about the defence taking out and helping when there are tasks where there is a need for assistance. This is fully provided for in Section 7 of the Defence Act and, in the case of preparedness, in Section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. The defence can act within, as well as the defense can go out and help when there are bird flu and there are dead birds. That's where they can do shields. So it is not necessarily a matter of ministerial approval because the defence is acting within the law. So this whole chasing thing is wrong... that there should have been illegal orders in the Department of Defense area. That is wrong, and I think it is unreasonable to defend itself to keep saying that and to keep chasing this issue. Paragraph 7 of the Defence Act has been applied, and that is not a matter for discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162008	Thank you. That was question 18. We move on to Question 19, and there is the question also by Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party, and the Minister is the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162023	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the defence has been authorized to carry out everything the defence personnel have been ordered to do in connection with the killing of all Danish mink crews?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162034	Let's do it one more time for mr. Marcus Knuth. The defense hasn't killed mink, and no one has ordered the defense to kill mink. The task of the defence has been to support the Danish Food Safety Agency, whether it has been in connection with the count of mink, support for the deposit of mink, the setting up of cleaning points or the blocking of digging areas. It is a support given on the basis of Section 7 of the Defence Act. The tasks of the defence in the case of undefiled mink crews outside the safety zones have been carried out only with the consent of the minkkeepers. The defense and defense soldiers haven't ordered anyone on this case. They have carried out their duties professionally in support of the Food Authority, and in fact the instructions given to the soldiers in advance of the task solution, the so-called soldier's card, clearly state that no kind of power must be used to enforce the task solution. I must stress again that the defence can support the efforts of the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority under section 7 of the Defence Act. The then Chief of Defense has also emphasized this to the defence staff and also to the public, and I hope the questioner has taken note of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162142	I think this is crazy. On 11 November, General Lollesgaard, the commander of the army, is in a facebook video and tells how hundreds of soldiers are doing what he calls operation mink killing. When I ask the Minister who ordered the soldiers out, I cannot get a clear answer. I cannot think of a time in the history of Denmark when soldiers have been sent out on a mission where no one ordered them to go. They simply packed their things and got off by themselves. So now I ask the Minister for the fourth time: who gave the order to send Danish soldiers to farms with healthy mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162222	The only thing that's crazy here is that Conservatives keep chasing a problem that's not there. There has been a full legal basis for defence activities, and that is why one should not seek some ministerial approval every time the defence takes action when it is within the law. And this is within the law, and no matter how many times Conservatives ask, it doesn't change that the tasks that the defense and defense soldiers have solved are within section 7 of the defense law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162255	Now we have a prime minister who has acknowledged that her order had no legal basis. So there's no doubt that the law wasn't there. But my question is still the same: Who was it? Did General Lollesgaard himself decide to pack his bags, get in a truck with a few hundred soldiers and drive to Jutland on farms where there was a healthy mink? Or who gave that order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162318	It is simply wrong what Mr. Marcus Knuth continues to say that there should be no legal basis for defence activities. The defense has had a legal basis and has a legal basis for carrying out tasks within the scope of Section 7 of the Defence Act. And that's what the defense has done. For example, when there is bird flu, as I mentioned before, the defence also contributes to the collection of dead birds and their disposal. The Home Guard contributes when shielding or when there are activities around. It is not the case that when you act within the law, for example, there is ministerial approval, and that is where, Mr President. Marcus Knuth goes wrong in the city. Because here the defense acts within the law home, so no explicit order should be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162409	Now I have asked four or five times who gave the order, so I will not waste the parliamentary and minister's time asking the same question again. So I would like to ask another very simple question: has the Minister ever asked whether there was a legal basis for actually sending the soldiers to farms with a healthy mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162428	Yeah, of course I do. Of course, both I and the defence have assured us that there was a legal basis for the tasks that the defense is part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162437	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth for today's efforts, and also thanks to the Secretary of Defense for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20, and that's for the Minister of Business. The questioner is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, and she has a fellow questioner with that is such an extra opportunity we have when we have Question Time in the Folketing. The questioner's name is sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. He'll come on later.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162504	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162507	Thank you. The question is: how does the Minister intend to rectify the 6 000 or so jobs lost in rural areas as a result of the government's destruction of the mink industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162518-2	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the mink growers in Denmark have undertaken a very large task. They do so for the sake of public health, which is why it is, of course, also crucial that mink farmers and all the associated professions should feel that we are helping them. At the moment, we are working intently to reach a broad political agreement, hopefully, which will ensure that mink farmers and the very mink-dependent followers receive the complete compensation that they must, of course, receive. As far as the job situation is concerned, in June 2020, in other words earlier this year, two qualification agreements were concluded which both promise the unemployed and the employed. Among other things: As an unemployed person, you are entitled to receive vocational training at a rate of 110 per cent in occupations where there is a shortage of labour this year and next year. At the same time, this year and next year, an extraordinary amount of funding has been allocated to short-term vocational training courses which allow the unemployed to undergo rapid and flexible retraining. Job centres therefore have a number of schemes in the toolbox which can support abandoned employees at mink farms and from the following industries. Last but of course not least, the government has also proposed, for the negotiations on the Finance Act, that funds be set aside for a genuine conversion effort aimed at business and workers in certain parts of the country. Some of the proposals we are proposing include: to set up regional growth teams, which should make recommendations on how best to invest in local business forces, and that is also where the mink industry has filled a lot, but does not do so anymore for natural reasons. So the government is ready to invest locally in order to strengthen employment in the areas that are hard hit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162712	Thank you to the Minister for that. Regional growth teams sound fantastic. However, in order for them to be able to work in practice, it is also necessary that there are some jobs out there to which they can refer. And what worries us in the Danish People's Party is that the jobs that have been lost in rural areas as a result of this minkmassic do not just apply to mink farmers and those who work at mink farms. This also applies to those who sell cages, to those who sell mink feed, to fur factories. These are all jobs where the people who work there have competences in one particular field, one particular area, and they no longer have any alternative. Then you can retrain them. It's an option, yes, but for what? And are there any jobs when you live in a rural area? What jobs are available in rural areas to seize these people? That's what I'd like to know if the government's been thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162816	I very much agree with the questioner's focus on the following: it is not only the employees on the farms, but also the employees in these many accompanying industries. It can be furry, it can be feed centres, and it can also be society at all: a local area that has been raised by the fact that there have been mink farms that should have electricians visiting or having other things. That is why regional growth teams are also at the heart of this. Growth teams are not someone who should refer someone to work, but it is skilled people from the local areas of the various regions of Denmark who must sit down and propose initiatives that create new jobs that create growth, so that there are precisely some jobs that arise where the mink industry has left a gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162902	Should I understand that the government is ready to create new private jobs in rural areas? Is that what I have to understand, that the government is ready for it? Because we are in a situation where on Læsø you have some mink growers and employees in secondary jobs for mink growers, where you can ask, no matter what you want to retrain them to: What should you do on an island like Læsø with 1,800 residents? What are you gonna do? What are you gonna retrain for? There are just no jobs, and you just have to admit that. There are no jobs. Is this part of the government's intention to relocate even more state jobs that can remedy and compensate for this, or what is it that the government is going to do so that we do not lose the 6 000 jobs in rural areas on the floor?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202162953	But it is absolutely true that this is our wish. I think we share the desire to create more private jobs in our rural areas. And that's why I'm really looking forward to seeing what these regional growth teams can do. They want a broader regional focus, but of course they need to ensure that within those regions, for example. Nordjylland, where Læsø belongs, is created some new jobs, so there are also jobs. It is already there today, but it is about creating even more jobs, and that you can retrain in relation to moving on in life, both in your own and in your family. So it's not just about making a one size fit's all-business policy on the back of the corona crisis, but about going more regionally to work. I believe that this is a recipe that can be used for something, including in those areas where, for example, we are talking about the environment. The mink business has filled a lot, but then it doesn't anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163042	Then we'll have the co-questioner, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, on the field. First it's 1 minute question and then it's 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163050	Thank you. It is, in itself, an absurd discussion that we are going to have at all in this Chamber today. The government starts by smashing the wine glass, and now we're going to discuss how to patch it up again. But that is, in fact, the sanctimonious truth. That is the challenge that Denmark is facing, because 6 000 jobs are divided into atoms, and then it may also cost 20 billion. kr. We'll just have to find them, and then we'll be able to leave. Some of the things that have shamed me a little have been something in the debates and discussions we have had, and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. We have among other things. heard some of the proposals that come from politicians who come here from the stone bridge in Copenhagen that you could just start producing mushrooms. So I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that there is a need for 1,200 new mushrooms factories in Denmark? Or does the Minister think that there is a need for more organic livestock farmers in Denmark, not to mention on farms with an average of 12,000 m2 of land at their disposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163156	I venture to say that I do not think there is any basis for 1,200 mushrooms producers in Denmark other than those we may have in advance. To stay in the serious department: Of course, this will be very different, and it is true that the average soil add-on to a mink crew is not very large, but there are of course also variations. There may well be some who have a lot of land laid on, and if you do not already have chickens today, it may be that someone will change to it or change to more agriculture or another type of farming. I don't think we should write that off as a way to go. But I am concerned about what Mette Hjermind Dencker also raises in the opening question, namely how the local areas where the mink industry has filled a lot and now suddenly is gone are being helped now. Of course, there are a number of different initiatives here, but I believe that these growth teams can do something, because they can go in and address more regionally, more focused what they are about to do. So I expect a great deal from them and also hope that it is some of the things that can land when the Finance Act lands and that money will be set aside for it. We have proposed a framework, but also that concrete money be set aside for it. Because then there are suddenly jobs to go to so that it is not just mushrooms it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163318	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163319	Thank you. I know that the Minister is more sensible than the ones he is working with, but I just think it should be included in the picture that these are the proposals that we are being presented with in this incredibly gloomy situation. On top of these questions, which are of course very well-founded, it is therefore also a question of how many jobs will lose in a city like Copenhagen. If, for example, you're gonna have to... looks at the stock exchange at Kopenhagen Fur with four times three or four weeks of sales, and if you multiply by how many thousand nights at Copenhagen hotels, it gives how many times some, for example. Chinese, visiting Casino Copenhagen, how many taxiatures, restaurant visits and purchases from Georg Jensen are made, and all sorts of other things, has the government also calculated how much loss it makes in jobs in the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163413	I agree very much. We have heard a lot about North and West Jutland, because the density of mink farms has been greater there. You can, for example. go to Gjøl and see how much difference it makes in a community that is small in advance when this profession then disappears. But I am very aware that there are both derived effects in a city such as Copenhagen, but, I should say, also in the western part of Copenhagen, where there are very many people who are either employed at Kopenhagen Fur in concrete terms, but also in other contexts, and who are now facing a difficult future. The answer will therefore be the obvious one again, namely that the regional growth teams, which not only cover North Jutland or Central Jutland, but will also cover the capital, will provide the right answers to the individual areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163504	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Dencker, and then we go over to the main questioner, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker. Sorry, it's his sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163511	It was nice to get married so quickly here in the Assembly Hall, I've never tried that before, but I think I'm gonna have a lightning divorce. So it's good that we can have it. We have talked about several things in relation to the change to other professions, and there have been many things on the field, in relation to whether the mink growers who have a farm and some square meters can re-order to other forms of agriculture. And regardless of what we think of fungus farms, there is, of course, an opportunity for some to switch to another form of farming. But what's a furry factory gonna do? What's a mink feed factory gonna do? What does a factory producing cages for mink need to remodel? And what are all the people who stand to lose their jobs going to do? Do they receive compensation, as the Minister says, or do they receive real compensation because their work has simply been lost and there is no possibility of replacing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163615	It is true that there is a huge challenge in our secondary sector. And some of them are characterized by the fact that they are so attached to the fact that there has been mink growing in Denmark that this is what they have become specialized in, and they are not standing immediately and can just do something else. It may well be that a veterinarian who has been accustomed to inspecting mink can relatively easily see some other animals I do not know but in the large broad business groups mentioned by the questioner there is, of course, a challenge. I am not going to reveal everything that is happening at the negotiating table, but I think I can venture to say that one of the things we are discussing is, of course, whether we can find a way of compensating these industries which have been very dependent on mink production. Because they've been knocked back as much as the growers are now, when the mink is gone. So that is some of what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163708	I would like to thank Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker and the Minister for Industry. There are no more questions today, as Questions 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 have been drawn. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163734	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202163820	Thank you so much. I would, of course, like to start by thanking you for the floor, but I would also like to start by thanking you for the initiative and thank you for the commitment to those people, women and everyone else who have supported the citizens' proposal which, in a short time, received support and received plenty is deserved mention. I think it deserves praise, and I know that there is always such consideration and debate about whether citizens' proposals bear anything, whether they are doing something good, and you can have all sorts of opinions on that. However, it has to be said that this proposal for a citizen has been entirely in favour of, and perhaps even also, I would be tempted to say that an agreement was made with all the parties of the Danish Parliament that eggs taken in connection with fertility treatment or illness can be stored in future until the woman reaches 46 years of age, that is to say. until women can no longer receive fertility treatment. So not 100 percent. of, but a very, very large part of the content of the citizen's proposal has been changed, and it is then introduced. Would this have happened without this citizen's proposal putting it on the agenda? You cannot know that for sure, but I have to say that it has not happened before, and it has now happened that it has become a major theme for many parties from all over the political spectrum and also something that I personally cared about and care about and have a great deal of interest in. The citizens' proposal that we are going to deal with today is to extend the permitted retention period for all fertilized and unfertilised eggs, regardless of the reason for the removal of the eggs. The political agreement reached by the government with all the parties of the Folketing back in October thus meets most, as I said, but not all of it, because in the agreement we agreed to abolish the five-year limit for eggs taken and frozen during fertility treatment or in connection with disease. This will be translated into a bill soon. This ensures that women and couples in fertility treatment do not have their healthy eggs destroyed just because they have been frozen for five years. It's not just a simple thing to get eggs taken in the course of treatment or illness... it's not... it's been incomprehensible to these women, these couples, that their eggs should be destroyed. There has been no professional reason for this for me to see, and that is why there is no political one, and that is why it is good to stop it. But there is also, we must be quite honest and say, and I would like to say this here too, a single element of the legislative proposal which has not been included in this political agreement and thus is not included in the legislative proposal, and this is about the abolition of the five-year limit for egg storage, which will be frozen without any medical indication for possible future use. That's what you're popularly referred to as "a" and that's an English term, sir. Mr President, social freezing, social freezes, we must translate them into words. The Government cannot support the removal of the five-year limit for egg storage for eggs that have been removed and frozen without any health reasons. It would be the same as sending a signal that you can just wait to have children for later in life, and it would be a completely wrong signal to send, especially at a time when we can see that fertility is decreasing and where we can see that in Denmark, together with a large number of other countries, we have children later and later. We must also be honest and say that there are many elements in the construction of our society that are cultural, social, labour market, educational, which work against having children, and that is why it is also postponed. And you can't keep putting it off having kids. Yesterday we had one of Denmark's leading experts in the field of fertility in the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and the Elderly, who concluded that it would be a disservice to do people a disservice if they introduced this extension to everyone. Therefore, because of this one element of the motion for a resolution, the government cannot support this proposal itself. But we are following up with other legislation. On a completely personal level, I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that in the old days, earlier, it was almost such a little taboo to say: I have had so much difficulty in having children. I can say that in my own family we have also had a hard time having children. We now have two girls, but it has not been quite easy to get them, and we have also gone to fertility treatment. And it is now many, many percent of Danish families who receive help, and Danish children who come into the world with greater or less help. And that's good, we can do it; it's great. After all, we are happy about our children, and families who have succeeded in doing so are happy, and families who do not succeed in doing so, because there are illogical limits, of course, are unhappy. That's what this proposal is all about. 90% We support that, the last 10%. We cannot support the reasons I mentioned before. And so we're following up with legislation on these 90 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164412	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164416	Thank you. I am also pleased with the citizens' proposal and very pleased with the agreement that has been reached, so thank you for that too. But I also note that the Minister himself points out that there may be some social conditions that make women simply have children too late. It may be industrial relations, it may be jobs that are not as good as creating room for one to be employed if it is the case that one is of childbearing age. Does the Minister think that it would make sense that, alongside resolving the problem for those women who, for medical reasons, cannot have children, we are also trying to set in motion a study which is about whether we have a society and a labour market that creates plenty of room for women to actually have children while they have the utmost test of having them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164510	Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. And I think we need to work together on that. I do not think that this is one or two tools; it is really a global view that we need to look at our society with. And it's not just a Danish phenomenon. Nor is it just a Nordic, a Scandinavian welfare problem. This is a problem we see in many, many Western cultures. And we can see that the countries that do not succeed with what there are countries that have some figures that are even more serious than those we have in Denmark must set up their economy in new ways and have to organize their culture in new ways and their families in new ways; they have many problems to deal with, of course also the personal problems that are and also the mental challenges that are when you really want to have children, but biology says that now it is too late. So it is a job that I would very much like to lead as a responsible minister, but I would also like to invite the Danish Parliament to contribute in the ways it now makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164617	I thought that sounded like a handshake, that we should do something about that too. Because that is precisely what fertility doctors are also pointing out, that is to say, one of the biggest problems is that women simply have children too late. And what kind of society have we created if there is no room for children during the period in which we have the utmost difficulty in getting them? Well, it could be while we're a student. Maybe we should look at the education system. Perhaps we should look at the support we give to young people during that period; after all, it is not free. But creating the social framework for us to have children naturally, I hear the Minister also saying is a theme that we must try to address precisely in terms of fertility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164702	That handshake is hereby given. And I just want to say in this context that my own analysis and my own experience is perhaps it is also because we have been through something similar in my own family, with my own wife that it is not possible to beat the young women on top of the head. And it doesn't just go beyond that. Someone has tried that and of course can campaign something, but it is a structural social problem, and we cannot just pass it on to the individual and say: then you have to adjust your life to this. If everything else is employers, friends, family, girlfriend, finance and other things say the opposite, then it is not possible. That is why we need to look at the much more holistic and all shoulder a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164743	Then there are no further brief comments and we thank the Minister for this round. We move on to the rapporteurs and the first is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202164759	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that it is a sensitive, difficult and nuanced debate that we have today, because it is about your children's right to have children and the possibilities for it. I would like to try to address as much as possible the 10% described by the Minister. We have reviewed the 90%, but I will try to attach a few more words to the 10%, and therefore why the Social Democratic Party is opposed to social freezing. We have a decline in fertility in Denmark, and almost one in ten gets help at a clinic to have children. This is partly due to the fact that the average age of first-time feeding has increased over a number of years. If the period during which women can freeze their eggs for possible future fertility treatments is extended, it may also help to send a false signal, both to women and to their surroundings, to be able to delay their pregnancy until later. It also sends a signal that having children is something that can be planned and postponed to suit the needs of the individual. However, the removal of the five-year limit for frozen eggs, which alone is removed and frozen for possible future fertility treatment, could in fact lead to frozen eggs being stored for up to 20 years. So, a young woman of 20 years of age can have eggs taken and then use them later when she is 40 years old, and it may seem advantageous to take the eggs at a young age so that they can be used later when the woman later in life wants to get pregnant. But it can also create false security, and if women end up using their eggs only when they, for example, use them. is 40 years old, and yet, despite the freezing of eggs, you find it far too late. And the age of women in themselves is also very important in relation to the possibility of pregnancy. But I also think that we should try to raise the perspective, that we should ask whether this debate is really the right one. In other words, the problem of the decline in fertility is a major social problem which we should be discussing, namely family planning. The whole discussion about pregnancy, parenthood and family planning must be dealt with, I see in a completely different way, and shouldn't we really move this discussion to discuss how we become families? Should we not instead be proactive and look at how we structure society, as the Minister also talked about, in relation to the possibility of pregnancy and family planning? Today, there are a great many factors that must be in place before children are discussed. We have structured a society in which education, which is also addressed by the rapporteur for the SF, housing, economics and careers, should preferably be fully in place before this talk about children also becomes more than just talk, and these factors pressure many young people to postpone their family planning until later. This has also led to a marked increase in the age of first-time feeding and has led to a drastic increase in fertility challenges. So is it really not necessary for us to have a general discussion about pregnancy, about parenthood and about families? Do we have the necessary knowledge for women and for families, no matter how else that family is screwed up? Do we know what it's gonna take? We have a responsibility for each other and therefore we are not in favour of abolishing the specific five-year limit for social freezing. What, then, if we come to press a woman or if a partner does, or if an employer does, or if you are trying to postpone your education? Are we not really creating a false narrative, as one can say so modernly, that children are something one can always have? Should we not rather take hands of each other and try to shift responsibility from the individual to the social structural problems that are present? I think it is important that this is the signal that we are also sending and that we take care that this is about the way we are structured. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we are committed to seeing the resolution in the light of a much wider perspective, because we have a responsibility to each other and we have a responsibility to change the way we make family and pregnancy planning. Instead of being progressive in dealing with it, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165304	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move quickly on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165316	Thank you for the floor. As rapporteur for the family of the Left, I cannot stress enough how important this issue has been to me, and I think I have said so many times over the last six months. For involuntary infertility is one of the greatest social challenges of our time. Several Danish couples and lonely women are still finding it harder to have children. The average age of firstborn was in 2019 291⁄2 years, and about 1 in 10 Danish children are today conceived in a clinical way. So we have serious fertility challenges in Denmark, and these may be health and disease-related challenges that prevent successful fertility treatment and, in the worst case, can lead to infertility in a couple or a woman. But it may also be because many choose to have children later in life and so the biological clock ticks faster. In the autumn we followed DR's heartbreaking, but also invigorating documentary series when the stork flies by. Here you could follow the struggle of seven Danes to become parents despite difficult and unfair challenges with infertility. Many feelings were at stake in these couples and families: anxiety, stress, depression and life crises. Fortunately, the seven Danes are not alone in the fight against infertility. With their 2015 campaign have you counted your eggs today? • help focus on the challenges of declining fertility in women and men. The impact measurements showed that it impressed the target audience and caused them to think about the message. This is relevant because it shows us that campaigns and information have a crucial effect in society. The claim about the biological clock must always be taken seriously. Fertility treatment in Denmark has been an area of great debate over the past many years. I think you could call it an ethical and political minefield. Nevertheless, we in the Left dare to move into this minefield, because it is important for Danish families and their quality of life. The Fertility procedure has not been set up optimally for today, and it was with great interest that I met the proposers behind the citizens' proposal in June. And now I see that you are listening up in the gallery, so I can look up to you and say thank you very much. Thank you very much for sharing your heartbreaking accounts, also on behalf of others. Thank you for throwing light on an obvious problem in the system, which we, politically speaking, should have seen much before. It is you who have inspired us to the broad agreement that the Left entered into in October to lift the five-year limit for the storage of frozen fertilized eggs and unfertilised egg cells in connection with fertility treatment or a course of disease. It is an agreement that we are very proud of, because it helps to secure the lifeline they need involuntary childless people. On the other hand, we are concerned to support the extension of the storage of frozen eggs without medical indication, that is to say what the Minister also referred to, namely social freezing. It is important for the Left that we distinguish involuntary infertility from voluntary exposure. And today social freezing is already offered on a private basis with self-payment. We in the Left are actually concerned about offering similar treatment in public. We are concerned, among other things, because we are concerned from a human point of view about whether the possibility of storing eggs for longer periods of time can create false expectations of how likely it is to actually be to get pregnant with thawed eggs. We are very pleased with the agreement we reached in October on involuntary infertility. That is why we must first of all see the effect of this and see what good things can carry with them. But the fight isn't over. There is a great need to initiate and further develop preventive action against infertility, because a large proportion of Danes have a limited knowledge of the risk factors in relation to reduced fertility. We want to respond to this by increasing the amount of information campaigns and preventive action against young women and men so that they can make an informed choice about their health in order to promote fertility. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165820	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165826	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask a few questions about what the rapporteur calls social freezing, i.e. the fact that eggs are extracted from non-medical sources. After all, the Ethical Council recommends doing so, and there is also the experience of Britain that shows that it is not being used very extensively. Now the rapporteur says that it may be because it is done under false pretexts or on the basis of false hopes, but it may also be women who, for some reason, because of the fact that there may be cancer in the family or for other reasons, choose to take out eggs without there being a direct medical reason for it. Should not that group of women be equated with other women, so that they also had the opportunity to get eggs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202165920	Yeah, you could. There we have just chosen to say in the Left that we do not support that, and we say that because there are some ethical challenges in this. Let us say that you could divide up the women who entered social freezing, so that you only helped them where it really made sense and where we were sure that it did not end up in a course that costs the white out of the eyes and where the woman or the couple never got a child out of it or where it ended up with infant death or where it was born with disability. Because we've also seen out of these numbers that there's an increased risk of it, and that's why I just mentioned the increased risks that are. Then I also have to say in relation to the statements made by the Ethical Council that I think we should perhaps look at them afterwards, because I actually have the feeling that the Ethical Council subsequently said that they did not actually take a position on the specific part of social freezing. Otherwise, there's something I've misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170010	But then I would just like to hear: if it is for ethical reasons, or because there is a concern about the state of health, why is it supported that it should be done in private clinics? I mean, this is about giving the opportunity to do it in public health care as well. Why is it that those who can afford it can do it well, but that it cannot be offered to everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170035	That is because I would like to spend the money on prevention. I would like to spend the money on prevention and information campaigns because I have a real concern that the women you are talking about will never end up having the child they want, because they have not understood the risks that come with not having their children at an age where it is possible and where there is no child with disabilities or a case of infant death. I have a sincere concern that those women will afterwards stand and say to the parties of the Folketing: you should have helped us with this; you should have supported that; you should have set in motion a prevention campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170109	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170112	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. I share the desire to be more preventive in relation to fertility challenges. I think this is a frighteningly big problem, and I also know that it is extremely burdensome for the women that it is about. I also think it makes sense to work more preventively in relation to it, and I just want to hear what the rapporteur himself is thinking: is it the labour market, is it the maternity leave of men, or what is it necessary to do, in order to make it easier for women to make a choice to have children at an earlier stage? Or are there any other preventive measures that the rapporteur thinks could make sense, like taking along, perhaps in some reflections on how we can actually also take up exactly the part of the challenge that the citizens' proposal also addresses?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170206	I have just mentioned that the rapporteur asked me that it was the Minister for Education in relation to this study programme, and many of us are reading more today. I remember my lecturer on the fortunes at the University of Southern Denmark saying, pretty much before every lecture: Now have the children while reading! It is just to say that we may have arranged ourselves in a way where some things may not have followed, and where there are actually some things that could keep up without it having a negative impact on the family. I have personally been happy to have my first child during the study, but I think there are many women who have some reservations about that because that is not what they are used to, regardless of the fact that more and more women are doing it. Then there is a lot about employment policy and family policy, for example. in relation to maternity leave, and a directive will come up in the near future anyway, so let us at last just look into it, so we will have some equality too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170255	It is precisely the gender perspective that could be interesting. In other words, I have now represented women who see that once they have completed their education, they can often only get short-term or hourly employment until they are reasonably sure that they are done with those children. If we are to achieve equality in this area, perhaps we should look into ensuring that fathers also have maternity leave, so that we can at least solve that part of the problem in terms of equality. In other words, where is the Left compared to guaranteeing men maternity leave on equal terms with women?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170336	After all, there are also very many fathers who want maternity leave. I also believe that some of this is in a history and in what we are doing. That is why I say that information campaigns can actually do something. I think that information campaigns such as this one are good. Women have you counted your eggs today? ▪ can help to move some things. It has to be about something else if we are to hit both men and women, right? And that's where the Left stands. I would actually like to spend the time and resources working on this, but it will be in order to prevent the things that we can avoid in the future; for I am frankly afraid that people are sitting at the age of 40 and never have the children they want, because we do not focus on helping them from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170419	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments and welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170428	Thank you very much. I would also like to start by thanking those who have made the citizens' proposal, because that has led us to debate this whole issue of fertility, not just the proposal itself, but fertility, children, family, working conditions and equality, and we are going around it all. But it has also been the case that, after a day of many debates and when we have a little disagreement, we actually have an agreement to extend it for more than five years in an area where there is no medical reason not to do so. So I think we should also be happy with the times when we can land a broad agreement, and I hope the Minister is • even though he looks a little tired. But we have also had the debate on social freezing and, as I also said, we have been in many different areas, and I would just like to say that, for the Danish People's Party, we sometimes have to come back to the family, come back to what is why we are here and live. Well, I'm really happy to be a grandmother, that I could celebrate my youngest grandson's 2nd birthday on Sunday, and the big one in 4 years can also crawl around and play with. How sorry I would have been if my daughter had just waited until she was 41 years old, so she was 21 when she got them, because then I would be 75 when those kids were 2 and 4 years old, and I would be a little sad about that. So you have to think about your grandparents when you can. Of course, there can be many obstacles to having children at a younger age, and I am not saying that you should have them at the age of 21 either. But we just know that in relation to the age at which you are most fertile, perhaps we should look at whether we as a society are built to support a young couple who want children, and that is, whether you are a man-woman, a man-man, a mother and a father-whatever. It is important that, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, education can be taken at the same time as having children. It can therefore be difficult in a society where we have very strict conditions for when to deliver a child to the institution, when to pick it up, and if you do not come and pick it up, it goes to the social services, and otherwise you are reported. Well, there are just so many things where we have to look at how we can do this so that it doesn't become a burden to have a child, but the joy that it should be. We also see other countries where you have longer maternity leave and where you can go longer and take care of your child, and we also want that in the Danish People's Party. So we're gonna have to try to see if we can't make it a little better, instead of continuing to push this hamster wheel that's gonna keep roaring around, that we're gonna be older and older, and that we're gonna have to go against the body's anatomy in terms of what we're gonna do. That is also why we have said that starting to freeze eggs simply because you want to push it or a company will push it or what may be of measures is not what we are in favour of, but that you do so on a health-care basis. So it has to be my word about it. But it was nice that we got this country a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170749	There is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170753	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for an inspiring speech. I have not yet had the pleasure of becoming a grandparent, but I certainly look forward to that when it happens. After all, there were many elements to what Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned, with which I agree: the very thing about ensuring that there are better conditions and better opportunities both for having children and also for having children. But it does seem to me that when Mrs Liselott Blixt starts talking about when to have children, it is probably up to the individual to assess. In other words, it is probably the right to be able to dispose of one's own body and also to be able to define when it is one's desire to have children that we should be involved in supporting them, and not also there beginning to make narrow rules on how to behave in order to have children in the way we think we should have children, but just to open up. That's where I'm, among other things. It seems that eggs can also be taken from non-medical sources. There may be many reasons why you want to do so, but if you do so on an enlightened basis, it is also an opportunity to be able to choose in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202170900	But now we're not gonna be the creator. Well, there's a reason we're made as we are. A woman's body was designed to be most fertile at a certain point in time. The bones of a woman's body are designed to carry the children in a certain way. That's why a man and a woman were created differently. There is a reason why men's sperm can be viable longer. There's a reason there's a cycle for women. We can't change that. Well, then we'll start tampering with what's been created once, and we don't want that. Well, the body is made to be fertile while it's young. Now we hear about women who become mothers at the age of 50, and the reason why we have more midwives, and that we need more staff out there, is that it becomes harder to carry a child and have a birth that goes easy. So for this we just have to say that we support that you can do what you want and that you live a free life: We have to go back once in a while and say that there is a reason that we are created as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171005	But that is where there is a fundamental difference in the perception of the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten. The fact that you have the opportunity also gives you the opportunity to live the life you want and to have the freedom to choose how you want to live your life. Because that is where we give opportunities, and when we do, we just have to make sure that we do not start to discriminate and say that there are right ways to live, and then there are wrong ways to live. When the possibilities are there, we need to open up the possibility for as many people as possible to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171040	But I think the Enhedslisten misunderstands it. Because we must not decide what to do, but when the public authorities provide a system, we must know what signals we give and what we do. It's always the individual's choice. If I say that now I am 55 years old, and I wonder if I can't go to some country and have a baby, then I'm the one who decides. But that doesn't mean that it's the state that has to go in and give me the puff there because it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171108	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171116	Thank you very much. And thank you to those of you who have put this issue on the political agenda. Those of us who have children know how much they fill in our lives and how much joy it creates. For some it comes naturally, for others it requires medical help. If you really want a child, I fully understand the frustrations that come if you do not succeed and you have to seek help. For those couples who are undergoing fertility treatment or who, due to disease, have to take out eggs for later, it naturally creates further frustrations if they come under pressure because their eggs will soon have to be destroyed. For there is no doubt that there has been an imbalance in legislation when women can be subject to a five-year freeze limit. There are no health-care arguments for this limit, and that is why, like previous speakers, I am very pleased with the agreement reached in October. After all, it ensures that we abolish this unreasonable limit and, in future, eggs frozen in connection with fertility treatment or disease will not be destroyed after five years, but instead be stored until the woman reaches 46 and therefore can no longer receive fertility treatment in Denmark. It makes very good sense, and it will be of great importance to those couples who want a child burning, but who have been under pressure because of an arbitrary time limit. Because it makes no sense to destroy eggs that can be safely used for fertility treatment and that can please future parents. It should also be borne in mind that the removal and freezing of eggs, as the Minister also mentioned, is not a simple procedure. All the more reason to hide them as long as possible so that women have not gone through without reason. As mentioned above, the agreement only covers the freezing of eggs taken in medical indications. And that does not mean that the whole citizen's proposal is being fulfilled. In the Radical Left, we immediately agree with the priority of involuntary infertility. However, we are always open to see whether further adjustments need to be made over time. However, I also think that several of the previous speakers have pointed to some of the ethical dilemmas inherent in this so-called social freezing. However, in the Radical Left, we were happy to support the agreement in October and I hope that it will benefit a great many future parents. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171334	You're welcome, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171343	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you very much, who have tabled this citizens' proposal, and congratulate you on the excellent result. What fantastic support for an important subject. I am concerned that, in the midst of our frustrations over corona, we are also picking up the good experiences. One of them is that we actually extended the five-year limit for the storage of eggs for fertility treatment, however, only during a period when waiting lists were suspended and therefore women risked that eggs would fall to the current five-year limit. Therefore, when the announcement expired again, it made very good sense that we acted quickly, at least on behalf of the women who, due to illness or fertility problems, have had eggs taken out. I remember that it was SF that was quick on the trigger and wanted to put this agenda with the Minister for Health, but I can hear that there are a lot of other colleagues who share the same opinion. So why don't we all just take credit for getting this exact agenda set? The removal of eggs is a wild and stressful process, but some women only have this one chance of having children later. I am therefore really pleased that we had the agreement that will ensure that in future women can have eggs taken on medical indications and can keep them for longer than five years, but that they can be stored until the woman reaches 46 years of age, which is the age limit for women to receive assistance in the treatment of fertility. Unfortunately, having eggs taken for later fertility treatment is not a guarantee of pregnancy. Many others have already said so, but it is a hope that should not be put out unnecessarily. Especially women who know that they have their last eggs frozen should not, of course, risk destroying eggs because of a rigid 5-year limit. The fact that pregnancy is not a guarantee is an important information. Both the biological clock and nature can be a hard companion for women seeking pregnancy by means of fertility treatment, whether the background is medical or social. In the SF we are concerned that we ensure help for women who, for medical reasons, need to have eggs taken for later fertility treatment, and the decision is fine in line with the recommendations of the Ethical Council. We need a more thorough debate on so-called social freezing, because although we also recognise in the SF that some women have a desire to have eggs taken for later use, we should first consider whether there are social structures that are causing women to put off project baby to a greater extent. And, unfortunately, I think that is the case. At least in my time as trade union chairman of a women's profession, I have learned that relatively more women had to put up with hourly or shorter temporary jobs when they could otherwise be ready to start a family after training. The desire to establish a family must never be an obstacle to women being able to obtain employment on an equal footing with their male colleagues. Nevertheless, the question often sneaks into employment conversations, and with the possibility of social freezing, relatively more people may feel pressured to delay having children for career reasons. Childbirth for men is part of the answer, but that's not the whole answer. I myself have been there where the desire for a child waited too long. I therefore also know how it is experienced when you see pregnant stomachs and prams everywhere. That is why I am also concerned that, as a society, we must help when nature sets our feet, but we must also ensure a society that does not open its doors to young people's desires to have children in time. In the SF, we therefore support that part of the citizens' proposal, which is intended to ensure that we do not destroy eggs that have been taken for medical reasons, and that task has been solved. In the SF, on the other hand, we would very much like to continue working on the second part of the proposal, which deals with eggs that are withdrawn for social reasons. That part of the proposal is, on the one hand, very costly and, on the other hand, the risk that it will be the dream that never comes true is, unfortunately, too great, and that is why, as other rapporteurs have said, I think it is important that we look at the prevention and structural conditions before we take a decision on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171817	You're welcome. There is, however, a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171820	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I broadly agree with. However, in relation to the fact that we have to look at the structural and preventive measures: I fully agree with that too, I just do not see why it should stand in the way of us giving it an opportunity here. After all, this is not something that strengthens the fight for prevention and structural change. This is just an opportunity we're going to be able to give to some women, and it's something they choose for themselves, just like other women do. But they do so on the basis of the conditions they now have and what they consider to be the best choice for them. So why should we deprive them of that opportunity? Well, why shouldn't they have that choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201202171905	It's not like I want to take the choice from anyone. I just think basically that, as it becomes an opportunity, it will also happen that society expects more and more that women can just postpone it by having children, and I think that would be a slippery path. So I really think it is more important for society to be prepared for children to be born at the time when women are the most fertile. And it might make sense that we also looked at some structural conditions instead. So it's not really because I want to prevent someone from making some choices. I can also easily see some situations where it could make sense. However, as we can help to control precisely the increase in the family, much more pressure will also be put on women to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172001-2	But I just think it is when you look at the experience that, for example, is happening. is from Britain, so turns out it's typically about women up in the '30s waiting to find a life partner or a co-parent. And it doesn't really matter to them. Well, there's just an opportunity that they could have to choose to freeze eggs one that could be used when they find a co-parent. It would put them at a disadvantage if they didn't get that opportunity here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172031	Well, the possibility is there. I mean, you have to remember that. It's still gone. So it is not the case that we are ready to take the right or the opportunity from people, and that is not the case in the agreement that has been reached. But basically, I think we have a problem if we do not recognise that there are also some structural problems that can actually be a factor in the fact that we, as women, may also be putting off project baby during the period when we should have had our children instead. That's about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172106	Thank you to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen and welcome to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172117	Thank you for that, President. Fortunately, this summer we reached an agreement to lift the current five-year limit for freezing eggs in connection with fertility treatment and disease. But I and I think there is a big deal, but the agreement only applies to eggs that have been taken out in connection with fertility treatment or in a medical indication. We made the deal, among other things. because of the citizens' proposal and after the Ethical Council made a recommendation that the retention period should run with the age limit for fertility treatment. The Ethical Council considers that unfertilised eggs taken in connection with disease should be covered by this withdrawal during the five-year freezing period, as does Enhedslisten. In the Enhedslisten we believe that there is no reason to have a 5-year limit for freezing anyone's eggs. This is an important matter in which we should not make a knotted legal distinction between gender, between fertilised and unfertilised eggs, or between what is the reason for the eggs being taken out. Women who get their eggs frozen down no matter what reasons you can now have for it should not have them thrown out after an arbitrary storage period. It could be women who are smacking with life in some way. It can, for example, be done. be a woman with family cancer who does not get the medical system to suggest oocyte collection with medical indication, but which means that the woman may be afraid of getting cancer later and therefore would like to have taken eggs out earlier. It may also be single women who would like to have children but who would like to wait for a fellow parent to take the child with them. These are all reasons in which we should not interfere. The argument that very young women will freeze their eggs and forget to have children early is not supported by research. Experience from England shows that having frozen eggs down for reasons other than fertility treatment or medical indication has not become a large pool. Research also shows that it is mostly women up in the thirties, usually without partners, who get frozen eggs down. It is an intrusive thing to take out eggs, and it can be painful, and then there is no longer any medical concern that the eggs should be damaged by freezing. This citizens' proposal also raises a very central and very important issue of equality in the law. Men today can have their sperm frozen as long as they want, and for exactly the reasons they now have. There are no questions about this, and we in the Enhedslist do not think it should be done for women either. We see it as very difficult to argue in order to maintain this gender inequality in the law. The Enhedslisten supports the citizens' proposal and we believe that we must ensure that we do not end up with new discriminatory and unequal legislation. We believe that funding should be found to lift the five-year limit for all women and for all eggs, and we find it difficult to see why it would be a particularly heavy financial burden to extend this political agreement we concluded this summer to all eggs. As a very last thing in the Enhedslisten, we also want to help look at the whole area of fertility treatment. This is an area in which user charges take up a great deal and where many women and couples have worn out and hard work and where there is great inequality and great commercial interests. This should not be the case, and in the same way we could look at the structural and preventive measures that make it easier both to have children and to have children in the society we have now set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172453	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172457	If we just focus a little on looking at the social structural trends, I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur if he could unfold a little, what it is that in the Enhedslisten one is so individual-oriented about this proposal, rather than raising oneself to a perspective that is about the incredibly many social structural things that make us have seen a decline in fertility in Denmark in general, a decline in the number of children, and that one is significantly older when one becomes a parent. So what is it that makes it exactly in this case you go looking at the individual and where the responsibility is placed with the individual, instead of trying to look out and see what then are the reasons for it? There I am very concerned to hear what the rapporteur thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172608	Now there is no contradiction between individual and society. After all, this is about creating a society where we, for example. This ensures that fertility increases, among other things. through the prevention of environmental pollutants, and where we ensure that there is better structural opportunities for having children, ensure that for those who do not have a lot of money, too, it will not be a great financial expense to have children. Well, there are many things we can do to ensure that we have a society where it becomes easier to have children and have children. But that doesn't change the fact that when we do the opportunity for example... the removal of eggs and the freezing of eggs in connection with fertility treatment, we must, of course, also ensure that there are no discriminatory measures in relation to the fact that it does not affect unequally with the individuals who are in society and that everyone is given as equal opportunities as possible. That is where I think the agreement we reached this summer has a bias because it does not take account of those women who, for some very good non-medical reasons, could choose to say that they would have liked to have taken eggs. So it is, in fact, an attempt to eliminate the discrimination and inequality that can otherwise arise in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172727	Perhaps the rapporteur's arguments could lead us to this kind of argument. But I do believe that the perspective lies elsewhere. I believe that the central point is that the shift from parenthood to parenthood, which has been so markedly put under pressure, also shows that there are companies that are pressing women's opportunities, because this is an opportunity. So I get really preoccupied with it and just have to be sure that the rapporteur is on board that we are working on reducing the age of pregnancy, that we have to have given people the opportunity to • whatever it is for parental design, that we have to make sure that we make a society that actually makes you able to have more children and that you can have them earlier, and that we can try to see if we can find out some ways in which not so many parents have to go through a time-consuming and incredibly hard period, also emotionally, when we see that one in ten children somehow comes into contact with a fertility clinic. I think that is actually a great many, and I think it is worrying, and I hope that Enhedslisten is ready to help carry out that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172846	The rapporteur can be fully assured that we are. I just do not believe that we are doing this by depriving anyone of a right or depriving anyone of an opportunity or failing to give anyone an opportunity that we are giving others, and I think that is what we are doing with this proposal. Because when we see that there are women, it is typically women up in their 30s who choose to have eggs taken out because they want to wait for them to have a parent, then I think we should give them the opportunity to do so. I also think that we should organise our legislation to ensure that family forms take on different forms today. I think we can do that, while generally increasing the possibility that it can be easy both to have children and also to have children and to have children to grow up. So I don't think these are things that are mutually exclusive. I just think it is essential, when we make this kind of legislation, that we avoid any discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172945	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Per Larsen from Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202172958	Thank you. Children are a great gift. I'm so lucky to be the father of three, and that's one of the biggest things that can happen to you. That is why, of course, there is also a great desire among people to have children, and fortunately we also have the opportunity to offer fertility treatment today, so that more people will have the opportunity to have children than in the past, where there were some who had to live without children. Fortunately, there is an opportunity today to remedy this situation. But we should not take it for granted that you can have children, and that is why it is also important to ensure that you have children at an age where fertility is optimal because it increases your chances of having children when you are young. We need to have more children if it is possible at all to motivate society and perhaps also to organize it in such a way that it becomes easier, even in the young years. Perhaps some models could be devised there. Apparently, there is also a need for some focus on sex education. I was quite frightened the other day, when you were out talking about sex education and what opinions young people have about different things in terms of contraception and venereal diseases and such things. There you can only say that you could be somewhat shaken by the ignorance that appears to be among the young people. So I think it would be a good thing if we were to make it quite clear to young people that it is important to ensure that they have children at a young age where fertility is optimal. Then, of course, I am really, really glad that the five-year limit has now been removed. Because it is extremely dangerous for some people to go through such a fertility programme, and then it is quite inappropriate to destroy the eggs when they reach the 5-year limit, and then perhaps to have to go through fertility treatment again if it is the case that a desire to have a child arises. And it only makes sense that we're out of it. But we are opposed to social freezing, and we are partly against it from an economic point of view, because we actually have too little money in the health services in many areas and could use some more. So when we have to make priorities, and we do this all the time in health care, this is at least one of the areas where we can say that we are not ready to set aside money for storing eggs even without medical or other reasons. So that's where we are. We're against social freezing on public account. There is the possibility, if you want to, but not by public payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173302	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. And I want to know if anyone wants to be rapporteur for the new citizens on this issue. There is neither the Liberal Alliance nor the Liberal Alliance. Then I think that we are going to the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173327	Thank you. What makes this issue so difficult is that it is an ethical issue, much more than it is a political issue. That is why we have to make our ethical position clear a little across politics. I have been thinking about this for a very long time and we have been discussing it for a long time and, in the light of today's debate, the alternative is to support this motion for a resolution. For us, it's a lot about freedom. There are things in this resolution that restrict women's freedom, but there are also things in this resolution that increase women's freedom. And we think that the last thing weighs most heavily on our scales, in that women themselves decide their own eggs, that is to say, they get the opportunity to do so. In this debate, the Enhedslisten has actually given me an additional argument, and this is the issue of equality. In fact, when men can have their sperm frozen, I also think that women should be able to have their eggs frozen during the period laid down in the motion for a resolution. We have also looked at the English experience, and there is nothing there either, I think, which indicates that in England at least this is the race straight down a slippery slope. Then there is the argument that, for example, we have to do something about it. has family cancer, but cannot prolong the freezing of its eggs for medical reasons. In other words, there are many people who are exposed to it and who, for that reason, would like to see the freeze extended, but who cannot have it, in other words for medical reasons. And I actually think that's a legitimate reason too. It is clear that there are a lot of social structures that place women at a disadvantage in the labour market. There is no doubt about that and that must be prevented, and that must be changed. And that is a long, long process which I do not think is going very well at the moment. But the fact that we are voting for this proposal does not mean that we are opposed to promoting women in the labour market in all possible ways. We are certainly in favour of this in the alternative, for example. men take a greater share of maternity leave. But summa summarum: when we take up our positions in the alternative, we support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173611	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173616	That is simply more a comment than a question to the rapporteur. It is because I have made a mistake, and you have to admit that you have. I've just promised to greet from New Citizens and say that they disagree with you and agree with the rest of us, so they want to support that we decline it I've been up and ask the secretary if it's okay to say it now. But otherwise I would like to thank you for a very fine speech from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173648	Thank you. There are no other brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Torsten Gejl. And thank you to Mrs Camilla Fabricius for telling us that New Citizens had signed up for the debate. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201202173723	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 3 December 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
