ParlaMint-DK_20200512130101	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130104	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130113	Thank you so much. The entire Folketing is behind a long-term plan for a step-by-step and controlled reopening. The fact that we have that consensus is quite unique in Europe, and I am sure that it will provide a great deal of security for the Danes. This week, we've started the second phase of reopening. Thanks to all of you in the real world that makes it work. As we open up our society again, we are also getting the economy going more and more. This time we should not do as we did after the financial crisis, where those who had the least were hit hardest. The recovery of the Danish economy must be fair, it must of course be financially responsible, and then it must be sustainable for the sake of the climate. We must not only restore; we must also reinvent. We need to find new ways of working, new ways of organizing ourselves, seize the opportunity to do better and transform our society. I am glad that we have decided to extend the parliamentary assembly, because we have a great deal to do. The Corona crisis has claimed high costs humanly and economically. Many have become unemployed, many have lost their loved ones, and companies have gone bankrupt. Fortunately, it has also been possible to hold hands under many jobs, under many employees and under many companies. The aid packages have worked, they have been a good investment, but the aid packages are only temporary and they need to be phased out; businesses and self-employed people are about to get back on their own feet. Here in the Folketing we have agreed that the financial expert advice should continue. This is part of the recovery agreement that we reached last week. The government will propose that the three economic experts who advised us on a reopening also advise us on how to move forward with regard to the aid packages. We will contact the parties later today in order to get the framework for this work in place, and we must negotiate, for good reasons, the phasing out of the aid packages before the summer recess. As the aid packages expire, the government will also look intently at the upskilling of those who, unfortunately, are now affected by unemployment. We know that, in all crises, it is particularly unskilled people who are hit hard, and that is why we must quickly take action this time with both training and qualification. We should also like to have that negotiated before the summer holidays. We also need to ensure good opportunities for internship. Students in vocational training should have better chances of finding and retaining apprenticeships. We will negotiate this together with a solution to the problem of employers' training contributions. On the whole, instead of just doing what we usually do, we also have the possibility of a green track change right now. We must therefore think our green ambitions together with the recovery of the Danish economy. The first step is a housing agreement. The general housing sector is a cornerstone of Danish society; a lot of people live for rent, and a lot of people have basic housing that needs to be renovated. We have proposed from the government that 30 billion be set aside. kr. for the renovation of the general housing sector up to 2026. It will be the largest housing deal ever. It is good for the tenants, it is good for the climate and it is good for employment. I understand that the negotiations are going well, and I would like to sign for that. The government is also working on the climate action plans, of course, and as agreed in this Chamber we will invite negotiations on the climate action plans as soon as possible. One week ago, we also had a broad agreement on compensation. In this way, we have brought peace to the economy of the municipalities and a better balance, so that there is better advice for welfare throughout the country. I hope, of course, that Parliament can use the extended session to get even more good and broad agreements in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130519	Thank you to the Prime Minister in the first place. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time followed by a question for which there is one minute's speaking time. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130533	Thank you for that, President, and thank you also to the Prime Minister. In the past, and I repeat, I have praised the Prime Minister's handling of decommissioning, which was handled effectively and with good information both to parties and to the public. But during the reopening here, it's as if the government is losing its grip. There has been a great deal of secrecy about key information. The aid packages have been delayed, businesses have been rude, we don't have a working test strategy.I understand that there has been another one this morning • children are going to school, and so they shouldn't, anyway, if parents have corona. These are the things that undermine the absolutely necessary confidence in government and authorities in a crisis situation in which confidence is essential. The same applies in political discussions, where it is essential for both confidence and for a good result that they take place on a proper basis and that the government does not provide us with information that is essential for assessing the effects of the initiatives that the government is proposing. It seems quite obvious that it has some form of significance when the distance requirement is halved from 2 m to 1 m, both for the risk of infection and for the potential for reopening more jobs, send back the first and second g's, open the high schools, open the museums, open the border, which is still kept closed, or something else. So the question is really quite simple: Did the Prime Minister know that there were new guidelines on the way with lower distance requirements when the Danish Parliament parties were gathered at Marienborg on Thursday and the night to Friday? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130727	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130729	Thank you. The President of the Left knows the answer to that, because, as we also talked about at the meeting, there is ongoing work going on with the health authorities in relation to the guidelines, including the distance requirement. But the final recommendation was not finished until Sunday, when it was also withdrawn. I would like to inform you of today's figures here because I have just received them and now that we are together, we can be pleased that there is a fairly large reduction in the number of hospital beds with corona in Danish hospitals, and that there is also a small decrease in the number that needs respiratory help. So the effort continues to go well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130805	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130807	Thank you for that information. Then we just need to know how many have been tested. I therefore find it rather difficult to believe that a Prime Minister who takes pride in marking that she is sitting at the end of the table did not have the slightest feeling that the Health Authority was on the way with these changes to the guidelines. So that does not sound like the Prime Minister who wants to be aware of all the decisions taken by the government. So let me ask another question: when did the Prime Minister know that the new guidelines were coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130841	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512130844	The number of people tested is being asked, and I think we might as well get that straight away. 334,260 Danes have been tested now, and this means that Denmark is one of the countries that tests the most sovereignly. We need to get even more tests done. The capacity is in place, and I therefore regard it as a completely bottom-up task both for the regions, but also for the state, that even more are being tested, and that is, according to what Enhedslisten has said several times, a completely crucial part of being able to open up society, that we know how the infection develops. The answer to the second question is the same. We, all party leaders, talked about it when we were gathered at Marienborg the other day and evening, and perhaps even some of the night, that there is always work going on in and among the health authorities in relation to the guidelines, including the question of distance. However, the guidelines from the Danish Health Authority did not come into place until Sunday, and there we were informed immediately before what the rules were going to look like in concrete terms thereafter. After all, both of us will probably have to stand up for the fact that we cannot keep all the information on the table because the disease is developing, and fortunately the guidelines do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131005	Thank you. The last question, please, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131007	That's right. We need to recognise that we do not know everything, but we may also have to put forward more openly what we know. That is why, last week, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament launched a manifesto of openness, which is therefore about, and unfortunately, it is necessary to force the government to have a much greater openness about all the decisions that are being taken, about the data being used, about the models that are being used, you were even so nice to send out the source code last week, and thank you for that, but it did not come until after we launched this manifesto of openness, and there are many ways of getting through that. So I would actually just like to call on the Prime Minister to take on board the manifesto that a quite broad majority of the Danish Parliament has endorsed, and that is why I would like to ask: does the government intend to apply that manifesto to the letter? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131101	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131102	But there is openness. The calculations underlying the considerations we are making in the government and the decisions we have taken widely, all ten parties. After all, it is all ten parties in the Folketing that are behind the reopening of the Danish society that have been publicised. It can hardly be more open. However, it is not the case that a corona crisis and a subsequent economic crisis can be dealt with and that everything can be put forward in advance before the crisis strikes, even at the beginning, because then we did not have the available material at all. However, all the material underlying the political decisions taken incredibly wisely on Thursday of last week is publicly available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131141	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. We move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131149	Thank you. I would also say that it was fine that we made the agreement we made last week, but I would say that it is important for us in the Danish People's Party that we do so on a fully informed basis. And to the extent that new things then emerge subsequently that change the conditions, it must also be possible that I would have almost said go back to the negotiating table. So it may also be a question of whether to do so. But what I want to ask the Prime Minister is in relation to the fact that in this corona crisis there are many things we have to deal with. And one of those things is how to ensure the sense of community and the unity that is necessary to get us through the crisis as well as possible. And when I speak of unity and community, it is also a question of ensuring that there is a law enforcement of the rules that must now be applied everywhere in Danish society and that you do not get such an insidious feeling that there are slightly different law enforcements depending on what some groups in Danish society are dealing with. I think most Danes remember that not long ago it was shown at Islands Brygge that there was a mother with two children who got a fine of 2,500 DKK, because she masturbated to be in an empty playground, but in addition there was a residence ban, the police were entitled to give her a fine. But, on the other hand, Danes have also seen that in our immigrant environments there has been a rather more lenient approach to complying with the rules of conduct. And there are many Danes, I can at least look at my inbox, an impression that there is less strong law enforcement on the part of the police. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether in any way the police have had the experience or perception that it would be okay to relax the law enforcement of the rules that apply in immigrant environments; that is to say, whether there is something that makes you think that you are enforcing the rules there with less zeal than you do with Danes, and whether that is why we are really seeing that it seems as if in immigrant environments there is a tendency for you to have less compliance with the guidelines and the rules of behaviour than so many other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131400	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131402	Law is law, and law must be observed, and no matter who does not comply with the law, the police must of course follow up. I do not know what lies between the lines, but do I understand that the question is whether there has been a political announcement that this government thinks it is okay that there are 30 men in the Gellerup Park and have a common prayer while there is corona? Now I have actually promised not to use that word anymore, but that is a completely absurd claim. The police must be there, and any activity of this kind must, of course, cease. What we saw, if that is the example referred to, is such a gross disregard of everything that is needed in this time. I shall not be able to answer why the police were not present; I assume you are in the future. And the kind of religious or political markings, or whatever they may be, that we saw there, must, of course, cease, that is to say, in relation to the specific example. So the law is equal for everyone. Perhaps I should just say that I have seen these examples, and I can only distance myself from those parts of the immigrant environment that will not support the efforts against corona. But I also have to say that my impression is that quite a lot of people, including immigrants, are doing their utmost to combat this disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131528	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131530	But the thing is, the police weren't there. Well, at this prayer meeting, or whatever it has been, 30 or 40 Muslims, or how much it is, in the Gellerup Park at Århus, it was Sunday night? Apparently the patrol car that had to go and handle it was involved in a road accident or some traffic chaos, or whatever it has been, so in the country's second largest city you could not enforce the rules, but you could enforce the rules on Iceland's brews with DKK 2,500. Fined to a mother with two children. The police were present and have subsequently said that the situation was thought to be fair and that it was somewhat under control, but you can see from the pictures that no one is keeping 2 m's distance or I don't know; there are at least not many, and there are hundreds of people gathered. So can the Prime Minister not understand why the view that law enforcement may be slightly different, depending on who we are dealing with? I agree that this must not happen, but will the Prime Minister ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131648	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131650	There should be no difference in law enforcement in this country, which is why I was actually surprised that there were parliamentary politicians out criticising the police having enforced the law on Islands Brygge. Because that's not gonna work. In other words, when there is a residence ban and, moreover, when there are restrictions on the basis of corona, that law must be observed, and it does not matter whether it is a mother with children or it is people who want to pray or gather in a religious context. This isn't the errand we're gonna be busy with. It is, of course, that the rules and the law are observed and that the police must be present. I do not know the reason why a patrol car is not being sent in the specific situation, but it is quite obvious that if there are any problems in a residential area with those who do not comply with the rules, then the police must also be more present; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131740	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131741	Thank you. And I will use this to tell the Prime Minister that we in the Danish People's Party have fought against many of these mosque buildings around Denmark. We've fought against them coming up and being built with minarets. We have fought against the call for prayer from Muslim mosques in public space. We do not think it belongs in Danish society. But what we can see in this time of the corona crisis is that, in several places, prayer calls are being made in public spaces via large public address systems or otherwise, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer whether she thinks this is a good development or whether she agrees with us that we should have stopped that. So, we have even had the Danish churches closed for a period of time, and at the same time Danes in different residential areas have been able to hear Muslim prayer calls. We don't think that's where we belong. What is the Prime Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131840	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131842	I am asked whether I think this is a good development and I do not think so. We have freedom of religion in Denmark, we do not have religious equality, and I think that is extremely important to hold on to, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131853	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512131900	But I would like to start by welcoming those who have now been able to resume their education, their training, their work and who have been able to reopen their activities during the past week or come to it. It is an expression of what has repeatedly surprised the experts and the mathematical models we have relied on when we have made decisions, namely how effective the common sense of the people has been in the fight against corona. Our ability to listen to and understand the recommendations of the authorities and to comply with them and our willingness to do so has been such a powerful weapon that we have had to change the predictions over and over again because it turned out that things were actually going better than we expected. This is clearly positive, which is why I was also pleased when the health authorities made their recommendations; I took it as an expression that things are going better now than they have done in the past, that things are going better than expected and that, therefore, some other guidelines, including a reduced distance requirement, can also be given. But of course it puts you in a rather awkward situation when we have just been sitting and discussing whether it should be one or the other kind of zoos; if, when we open large centres, we can also open museums; if you in cinemas are going to sit too close to each other • then we are in a situation where decisions could have become some others if we had had that basis for decision-making. That is why we were so insistent all the way through to get the full health professional updated decision-making basis, and that is why today we are somewhat awkward that the government was not able to bring it forward, not as a criticism of the authorities, but as a criticism of the process that was organised, because that was what could enable us to make more sense of it. But we cannot roll back time, and that is why the question to the Prime Minister is here: When it is indestructible, even with the figures that have just been provided, goes better than expected, and it was part of the agreement we made last Thursday that we look at the phases again... the Prime Minister is then ready to, when there are also updated figures, on the basis that it has been four weeks since we started phase one, to let the new and updated things from among other things. The health authorities are the reason why we are looking at whether there is anything we can really adjust this week?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132118	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132120	So, first of all, the work provided by the SSI and the expert group is just mathematical models, and that is why we must not base our decision-making power solely on that; it is part of the basis for our decision-making. And it is quite true that the fight against corona seems to have gone better in Denmark than we had dared to hope, and it is very much thanks to the Danes' change of behaviour and the massive support to get us through this. So far, so good. I disagree with the premise that there was no good basis for decision on Thursday. And I think it is important to tell the Danes that we had the basis for decision that was updated at that time. It could look different on Sunday, it could look different in one week, and we could be in a different situation in 14 days. I just remind you of one example. In one of the South-East Asian countries, which has been named one of the countries that has handled the situation best for good reason, the infection had been controlled, but it seems that one man in one nightclub has started a great many chains of infection. So fragile it can be, and that's why we can be in a different situation in one week, in 14 days, in one month. Therefore, this work cannot be organized as in ordinary political negotiations. We have to keep following the development of the disease, and of course we are doing so this week too, and we will be doing so next week. Phase two has barely begun. Something's started. The retail trade has begun. The professional sport has begun. However, many schoolchildren who are not yet in school will not be in school until Monday, and this also applies to the opening up of, for example, the catering industry. So I assume that all parties support the agreement we made on Thursday. And, of course, we must constantly assess whether things are developing in a completely different way from what we had imagined. But phase two needs to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132319	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132321	It is just because one senses such a difference that I was really surprised at the announcement on Sunday and perceived it as an expression that things are going better than we knew last Thursday, i.e. when new guidelines could be used as a basis. And that is exactly what we took into account in the agreement: then we could discuss it again. I did not get that commitment, but I still want to insist on that in the context of that agreement. Otherwise, at least you are left with a picture of a little again that you can write things down, but when reality manifests, it may not quite count anyway. And that is not fair, I think, for political cooperation. One of the other things we wrote down was that before 1 June it must be clarified not least for the sake of the many in Denmark whose jobs depend on tourists • how the relationship is on the border. I can see that there are many discussions between different countries and that the Commission is on the way to something, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister's position: is it not obvious as soon as possible, and at least at the latest at the same time as Germany, to normalise the situation on the Danish-German border, if only for the sake of the Danish economy, where the economists, whom we have served, are actually pointing to this as one of the most serious challenges for the economic situation right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132439	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132440	I think I dare say, on behalf of all ten parties, that everyone wants the borders to be opened at some point, and then there may be differences in temperaments as to how quickly we want to proceed. And I do not think that there are any parties that are not interested in tourism. I look forward to the day when, as a country, we can again welcome those from outside, who wish to visit, for example. the wonderful coast of Jutland and elsewhere, but it must of course be done in a wise and intelligent way, which must be reconciled both with the countries around us, that is, what we do in Europe, what it means in relation to the risk of infection, and what it means in relation to how many people are suddenly in our country. It is an ongoing assessment that we are making and, of course, we must be in close dialogue with our neighbouring countries first and foremost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132537	Sir. Morten Østergaard for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132539	I had actually reserved the last question to sign again for the nice words about the green transition. Meetings have been a little small since the invitation was given there a few weeks ago, in relation to that theme. But I hope so soon, so that no moss grows on the invitation. But I have to stick to that border issue. In other words, when we talk about cooperation and conversation with other countries about it, it is not an unreasonable question to ask the Prime Minister whether it is the Government's view that, at the latest, at the same time as Germany, we should open the Danish-German border so that Germany does not allow Danish tourists to vacation in Germany, while we do not allow German tourists to go the other way. This is surely a matter of opinion which, in any case, puts things a little in front of the fact that we have to go together and that we have to talk to neighbouring countries. That is why I would just like to ask for clarification on this for the sake of the many, many, even in the border country, which is perhaps particularly listening this year, whether the cooperation is now as close as the Prime Minister pretends, or whether you want to go alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132647	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132649	There is no reason to say that I pretend that cooperation on the border country is important, because it is. But we are still away with a virus that is still at risk of being deadly for many people if it gets out of control. The premise one tries to build up that one can see one month or two into the future and make all decisions is simply not right. I mean, I'm sorry, it's not right. What if the infection is out of control in 14 days' time in Denmark or if it is in Germany? If the pressure of infection explodes in Germany and the number of newly infected people every day surpasses what we have seen over the past two months, that is one situation. If Germany continues to navigate very well in relation to corona, that is another situation. And that is also true of Denmark. So I would like to say to the point of being very firm about the future at a time when we do not really know where we stand: we simply cannot. I would really like to open the border, I would really like to provide security and security, and I am very fond of tourism, but it must be done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132753	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512132801	I would actually like to start by congratulating all the parties of the Danish Parliament on the fact that, just before the big prayer day break, we could gather together on a reopening plan for our society. That's good. This is a very strong signal, and it is good for the further cohesion and stability of the management of the corona epidemic in Denmark. The Danes are looking to us, and right now all Danes have a great responsibility to ensure that the reopening actually succeeds. We must continue to keep our distance, we must continue to wash our hands and scrub off, and we must so maintain good hygiene. At the same time, we have also put a lot of pressure on many of you who are out there: the educational staff, the teachers and our healthcare professionals, who have been at the forefront of the whole corona crisis first in terms of mitigating and then in terms of managing the infection and now also in relation to the re-opening phases. It won't be easy. It is absolutely essential for SF that they can carry out their work in a safe and sound manner. Last Sunday the educators' union was out with a concrete proposal to ensure proper conditions and security for our children in the institutions. As the distance requirement is relaxed, it is essential that the minimum standards plan be brought forward and that additional resources be allocated to cleaning and hygiene in the future, so that it is not only now but is made permanent. For that is one of the things that has been lost in the institutions over the years: that there has been insufficient hygiene and that there have been too few adults. That area has simply been pruned. Perhaps it was an idea and perhaps even a good investment to maintain the demands of far better hygiene and the good standards in our nurseries and kindergartens that our children are experiencing right now. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the government could imagine supporting us, that is to say, that we are bringing forward the introduction of minimum standards in Denmark and making the current efforts for hygiene permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133006	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133008	First of all, I think it is incredibly liberating that there is also a party in the Folketing that is pleased that all ten parties can work together. I think the Danes are deeply grateful that, at least when it comes to substance, we do not spend our time on tricks and disagreements but sit in the negotiating room. And we'll be there for many hours. It was night before we finished, but then there was also a broad agreement by all parties. I think they are so fond of it, and I think there are many Danes who sit and think: Keep working together, put all your zeal and all that scam aside, and solve the task together. So I am very, very much in agreement with that, and I think it's a good thing that it's Denmark, when it's best that we spend our energy working together instead of working against each other in the middle of a crisis that has such a high cost. I very, very much agree with that. Then there is the question of minimum standards. We have made an agreement there together, and it still applies away. We are going to have to negotiate with the municipalities about next year's economy, and the demography is still going to be important. I see no need for us to start advancing agreements, and certainly not at a time when we do not know what is happening to the Danish economy in the future. In general terms, however, I would say that we stand by the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133132	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133134	That sounds like something we'll be coming back to for years to come. There should be no doubt about that. SF has this as a heart case. Yesterday, the SF proposed that we extend the maternity leave for those families who are currently having to bring a small new one into the day nurseries. We are putting forward the proposal to take the pressure of some of the parents who are already struggling with Corona measures and to remedy the situation in those institutions that are having difficulty in really having parents in the running-in phase. Because what is the problem in many institutions is that they want to have children, but that parents must not be in the first days. I myself, as a mother, could not imagine giving my daughter the first day of the day in the crèche and not taking part in the drive-in. It is understandable because of Corona measures that this is the way it is, but I think we should find a solution for those parents and look at whether they can be offered extended maternity leave. If their maternity leave, e.g. end on 1 May, it may be extended over the summer holiday. Parents can contribute with their 3 weeks summer holiday, but we also make sure that this is a peaceful process for our crèche children and their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133242	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133244	One might say that if things basically continue to develop positively and we keep having the virus under control, then I think that, as Parliament, we should start to move away from everything that is about temporarily dealing with a corona crisis to look into the longer term. Because we're opening up our society. This also means that people have to go back to work and that children have to be in day care. When it comes to the concrete issue of running-in, surely there are some specific challenges now, but should we not have confidence that it will be resolved in the individual institution? I think you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133321	Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133323	I do not agree with that, because the challenge is that parents really do not have maternity benefit in the end, for example. must stay home a little longer because they cannot deliver their child. There are a lot of these things that require compensation. I therefore agree with the Prime Minister that it is not about the long-term, but that it is about solving here and now problems. One of the problems that we are still facing, which has not been resolved and which I believe to be a little catastrophic is that we have not solved, are the risk groups here who have been told today that they really should not come back to their work. has cancer or other things that make them have to take good care of themselves. They must be given the opportunity to pay compensation. The salary compensation is waiting for it, and I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if we can agree that there should be an agreement in place I cannot speak Danish anymore before the end of the week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133417	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133419	Fortunately, however, we can understand what the SF President is saying. After all, we have set aside a sum jointly for this and agree that there may still be some who do not actually have to come to work because they are in the risk group. Then there are some debates on what exactly it should look like, and they must be finished as soon as possible. We can then send that message together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133444	Then we thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133452	Thank you, President. I'd really like to start by signing for a test strategy... it's a relatively new word in my vocabulary, but it's one I've been using a lot lately, and I've gotten in good condition... combined with a device for infection detection and combined with an offer to get into isolation, voluntarily of course, for those who can't be at home, for example. Because they live small. This is absolutely essential if we are to be responsible for what we are doing when we reopen. I also think that this is a prerequisite for what we are doing to be sound and a prerequisite for my not being more concerned about a smaller distance requirement. And then I would also like to sign that the Prime Minister said in his introduction that this time we should do it differently than during the financial crisis. That was one sentence, but I certainly noticed it, and I think there are a lot of people who are unemployed or at risk of becoming unemployed who have noticed that. Then I would actually like to talk about the aid packages and about companies in tax havens. Because it has also been a minor discussion in relation to the corona welfare society is really worthwhile now, also for many companies that I think are sitting here and praising themselves happy to operate exactly in Denmark and not in many other countries, because the community is taking care of it. However, if there is also to be a welfare society afterwards, we must be sure that everyone is contributing. There have been companies that have not done so because they have been placed in tax havens and thus have not paid their share of the feast at home, even though they have earned their money here. And fortunately, we then got into the latest agreement on the aid packages that the aid packages should not go to companies located in tax havens. I would really just like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister does not think it is important and right that we ensure that such community aid does not go to those who are just avoiding contributing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133704	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133706	I can answer that very briefly, because I think so. And I am pleased that so many parties supported the fact that we should have the aid packages and that they should come quickly. The negotiations went fast, but we agreed to hold hands under as many as possible through this part and that the money should then of course go to the right ones. So I think it is a very, very good element that has been included in the agreement. Then we can always discuss how to define what tax havens are and what it is for a list, we refer to it may also be that that is the question that is coming now; I do not know that. But, of course, I think so. And, yes, I hope that we can be as many parties as possible who agree that we want a fair recovery of the Danish economy. The opposite would also be a really strange point of view to take, because no one is responsible for the corona crisis that hit us, but some pay a higher price than others. There are some who cannot work at home, who are in the most vulnerable jobs, who are more predisposed to the disease than others. There are some who sit looser on the labour market and who are always fired before others, namely those who do not have very long education. After all, we have started to recover, and the agreement on the Landsbygningsfond has to be based on what Mr. Morten Østergaard mentioned earlier, of course also have a climate angle, and throughout that recovery plan we must always look at the fact that it must of course be financially responsible and that it must be green, but this time it must also be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133849	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133851	Again, I would like to say thank you for that. If we return to the aid packages and tax havens because I think that the Prime Minister has probably figured out what the next thing is going to happen, then Denmark was one of the first countries to make a condition in the aid packages that if you were located in tax havens, you could not have access, and this has made the European Commission point out last week that companies in other EU countries should not be exempted from aid packages because the free market, the free movement of capital, is above it, even if it is companies located in well-known EU tax havens such as the United Kingdom. Luxembourg. This in conjunction with the fact that the EU's blacklist is flawed... I don't think Switzerland is even on that tax list... our agreement is actually flawed. In other words, there are still companies which are located in real tax havens which can access the aid packages and thus the common fund. So isn't it time we made a national blacklist of tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512133959	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134002	I really think it is very wise to do what is the basis now, namely to refer to the EU's blacklist of tax havens, so that there is something that is comparable and also transparent. Then we can have a discussion about whether the EU list is ambitious enough and whether it is updated quickly enough. We would like to take part in this discussion, but I really think it is very wise to refer here to a common EU list.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134032	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134034	I mean, just a week ago, a report was actually made that shows that EU countries are losing over 184 billion. kr. in tax revenues for multinational companies which transfer their money to the United States via tax havens such as Switzerland, Great Britain, Holland and Luxembourg, which means that they are also other EU countries which are actually tax havens. And these are just figures for American companies. For Denmark, it is over 4 billion. kr., we lose along that path, and it's a lot of money we're talking about • it's equivalent to thousands of nurses or almost a whole withdrawal agreement. After all, Belgium and France have already taken the initiative to draw up some kind of national list, which is supplemented by the fact that the EU list is flawed, so there are others that we can share here. Shouldn't we go in that direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134133	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134135	I must be honest in saying that I am not aware of the work going on in Belgium and France, so I would naturally like to follow up on that. I do not really think there is any basis for my answer to be so much different from the previous question. I think it is a good idea for there to be a common EU list, and we can, of course, enter into a discussion on whether that list is ambitious enough. But on the basis of this, I would like to reserve the right to dive into what has been done in Belgium and France, because frankly I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134204	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134211	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying that it is a good thing that Denmark is moving forward, and we should be pleased about that. I think that's good. No matter where we came from, we now have an agreement that our country needs more work. It's good for people who come back to work, it's good for people who can open up their own business, and we have to hope that they get through it and that they get through it. Imagine that swinging the Dankort can now be described as a patriotic deed. It probably gives gray hair to the head in some places, but still. I'd really like to follow up on last Question Time. We can talk a lot about what we stand in right now, but I am increasingly somewhat worried about what this will have in the longer term, what Denmark looks like in the longer term. Of course, as we have also talked about before, it comes down to the fact that coronamilliards are also real billions. They don't matter. They don't have any other value. If you borrow 1 billion in corona, you still have to pay back 1 billion, so to speak. I was out a lot last time whether we are not ready to tell the Danes that our welfare society is going to change, because we cannot necessarily afford the same thing or many new things in the long term. I didn't quite feel that the Prime Minister bought my premise in the last question hour, but still. Does the Prime Minister really believe that this will have no consequences for the Danish economy and thus for our society, as we know it, and the promises that have been made? If we look into a future where bnp falls 9%. By 2020, can we stand and say: Don't worry, dear people, this is not going to be felt, this is going to have no consequences? I will be very, very puzzled about that, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether she is quite sure that this could not have any consequences and that there is something that we are looking into in the future that may not be as we had expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134409	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134410	I am quite sure that I would be advised not to do what I am doing now, namely to go in and say that you think there are some questions in a Question Time that are more interesting than others. I think they would advise me not to say that, but now I'm going to do it anyway. Of course, we can always discuss some specific matters in the management of corona, but that question, Mr President. Søren Pape travels is absolutely crucial. I do not know how exactly I have expressed myself in the last Question Time, but I do not think we are so far apart in that premise, because of course this will have consequences. There is someone talking about this being a much bigger crisis than the one we saw during the financial crisis, and someone talking about that being the worst thing we've seen since the Great Depression. Denmark is a small, open economy, and we are totally dependent on our exports and our manufacturing companies, of the world around us, so yes, it will have consequences. That is why we also need to make the recovery of the Danish economy wise. Some have advocated that we should do it immediately, but how can we do so when we do not know the consequences yet? It is true that a coronamilliard is a billion, and if you spend all the money now, there is no money in the autumn. So I am not sure that we are so far apart, but it may be that we are going to be far apart in how to solve the crisis and what means we should use. But there is a need to start a discussion now that this is going to have some long-term consequences, also of an economic nature, and the premise that the parties, including the government, should therefore be careful just to make proposals that cost money, I am actually very, very much in agreement with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134605	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134608	I appreciate that, because I think that is exactly what becomes reality. It wasn't long ago, a year ago, we had an election campaign where we were discussing, of course, from the community we knew at that time, what it was for a society we were going to have. I think that both the current government and the current support parties said a lot about the need to strengthen the public sector now, that the public sector was starved and all those statements that I know are deeply disagreed with. I think we have a great society, I think we have a very, very large public sector, and if it is starving in Denmark, then the rest of the world must be going down completely. I think we all agree that the money must be made first, and the prerequisite for affording this welfare and the welfare society, of which we are all in some way in favour, is also that we can afford it. Allow me to say that it cannot be Arne's turn and that it cannot be the turn of everyone else. The compensatory reform also requires an increase in the service ceiling if that is to make sense. I'm just thinking, where is it that all that money should come from at a time when we're being pressured on our economy? If there is a new margin for manoeuvre, should Denmark be further indebted? What's going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134716	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134723	Now we are starting to become a little more disagreeable, and of course the Social Democracy and the Conservative People's Party must also be, at least in parts of economic policy. The analysis of the fact that we have to deal with what the corona bill will be before we begin to dispose of it is very, very much in agreement with it, and it will also in my view be the only responsible thing to do in relation to the forward-looking economic policy. I also have to stick to the fact that the starting point for Danish economy was good. We had low debts, and it looked very good at employment and unemployment, and the interest rates were low, and so we are one of the countries that has been able to allow us to hold hands under both companies and employees in this situation. I think that the crisis has shown us that the conflict between the public and private sectors is useless, because it is the interaction between the two that makes us strong, both before the crisis, but also during the crisis. I still think it's Arne's turn, because they're the ones who're worn out who can't just keep working and they're in the same situation. But it is clear that, in the broad economic debate on the way in which we dispose of the money, we will of course have to dispose of it in a different way after corona than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134837	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134839	Yes, and that's why I think that the prerequisite for having those discussions is that we know our economy, and it's clear that the more Denmark becomes indebted, no matter how good the economy we have, the more important it is to our society. It will also have an impact on our society, what the room for manoeuvre really is, and it is clear that one of the next things to come is, of course, also a room for manoeuvre from the Ministry of Finance. It's not as easy to do now as it might be in a month or two or three. After all, we are also in a situation where a great many people have been sent home on compensation for wages. We must remember each other that it is potentially unemployed in the near future, we hope not, but it may be, and now that we are in that situation, it is just that I am surprised that more promises will then be made in addition to what raises costs in the public sector. This must lead me to the final question, because I am still looking for a guarantee that the companies that are now going to fight to get up do not get a • in the eyes of the goose • premium called increased tax increases later this year, i.e. that the Danes and companies should not be penalised by taxes and charges. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this is not going to happen either?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134954	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512134955	So now it's not a punishment to pay taxes. One of the reasons why we have so far got through the corona crisis is that we have such a strong public health service with very, very skilled staff. The prerequisite for that is that we pay our taxes. So it is not a punishment to pay taxes, it is part of the social contract that you enter into when you are in a welfare society like the Danish one. Of course, we must be aware of this, as far as the government is concerned, of the tax issue, and in my view all parties are now obliged to bear in mind that a number of companies, which until three months ago stood strong, sharp, may suddenly be in a situation where supply chains change, where the possibility of sales and exports change, and where domestic demand may look different, as can be the global one. I think that everything in terms of economic recovery will not be as it would have been before corona, because in my view everyone is obliged to think new and, of course, to take special account of Danish business in the particular situation we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135109	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135116	Thank you for the floor. On Sunday, the Danish Health Authority published amended recommendations to lower the distance requirement as a rule from 2 m to 1 m. The assessment is now that social distance of 1 m is sufficient to prevent the spread of infection. This is good, because it makes it practically possible to open much more of Denmark than the parties agreed on Thursday at Marienborg. I have heard that the Prime Minister believes that the agreement would have been the same, even if the 1 meter requirement had been part of the discussions. I do not agree with that at all. Zoological gardens, amusement parks, museums, theatres and cinemas would be able to open properly if they had to adjust to a distance requirement of 1 m rather than 2 m, for the overall framework for how much could be opened would have been much larger. We would have been able to open much more if we had been inaugurated in the Danish Health Authority's concrete plans on Thursday. We were not; we were given a loose explanation that there would be some new guidelines, but no indication at all that it would be a landmark new course in relation to the distance requirement. I have today to say that it is an experience that we have reached an agreement on the reopening of false premises. I therefore need an answer: why did the Prime Minister not ask the Health Service to explain the changed distance requirements before the negotiations on Thursday, or at least during the negotiations? And if, on Thursday, the Prime Minister himself was not aware that the new guidelines of the Danish Health Authority could contain a reduced distance requirement, then it must be deduced that Søren Brostrøm and the Danish Health Authority invented these new guidelines on the morning spice during the weekend. So, is this how the Danish Health Authority works in Denmark? Did the Prime Minister really not know that these new guidelines from 2 m to 1 m were under way when we were in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135326	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135328	I think I have to correct at least one thing in what is being said, and that is that it was not the two-metre requirement that made things open in phase three or four only. That's not true. That there are things that can only open up in phase three and phase four for example cinemas is after all the consequence of wanting a controlled, phased opening. It has nothing to do with the requirement of 1 or 2 m. There is not a single country in the world that opens up at once right now; you cannot find a single example. On the other hand, you can find examples of countries that are longer in the opening than other countries and that is Denmark. It may be difficult to hear in the political debate, but we are actually one of the countries that has been able to open up first, and now it looks as though we can open up a lot. But that has nothing to do with the distance requirement. We are opening up in stages because we need to control the disease and because everyone, at least when we are in the negotiating room, recognises that the development of the disease needs to be monitored. Then there is a difference between how much you want to open up, how fast and what you want to open up, and that is an incredibly difficult priority. That is a very difficult priority. But it is just to say that the fact that, unfortunately, we cannot open up everything now does not have to do with the distance requirement, but it has to do with the fact that we in Denmark have decided that it should be phased in, that it should be controlled, and it should be wise to agree or disagree with that. To the question of the Danish Health Authority: The Danish Health Authority's recommendations were completed on Sunday. Would you have wanted them a few days earlier? Yes, but it may be that the guidelines will be different in a week. As I said to the party leaders the night to Friday, one can of course decide politically to decide the guidelines. We have then chosen not to do that in Denmark; it is the authorities that decide them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135527	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135529	In relation to the first, I still strongly disagree. I hear today, and I also heard during the debates, that some of the things we were worried about were whether we could keep the full distance, and everything else must be harder to hold if it is 2 m than if it is 1 m. One of the consequences of the fact that we were not aware of the Health Authority's new guidelines is that Zoo has not been opened. On the contrary, we have now been given a mandate to the zoos against opening up. First of all, and I mentioned this during the negotiations too, I find it difficult to understand the logic of walking around Frederiksberg Gardens while not being on the other side of the fence in Frederiksberg Gardens in Copenhagen. Secondly, it is serious, and an injunction really signals that the government would not allow Zoo to open if they had done so earlier where the injunction had not entered into force. Zoo must therefore be entitled to compensation and it would be quite reasonable for the compensation to be paid to Zoo and others who have been closed by injunctions now to be paid retroactively from 11 March. Does the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135637	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135640	I guess there are two things to say about that. One is that the ban on zoos, where you cannot drive in, applies until stage three, and that is a political decision between all ten parties. It follows from the agreement we have. It's decided. This has not been fully heard in the public debate, but it is a concrete political decision of the ten parties. That is one discussion. The second discussion is whether we can do more to help the zoo, which has been in two different regimes along the way. We would like to discuss this with the Zoo and I have great sympathy for the Zoo, and I fully agree that all possible considerations and good preparatory work have been done in relation to how to handle all the Danes who would like to see the animals in the Zoo, and I look forward to the opening of the Zoo. I am very pleased that it is part of the political agreement that the Zoo is in the next phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135740	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135742	I am pleased that a dialogue will be held with the zoos on compensation. This may also require a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing, because it is a little outside of the agreements that have been concluded. But we support one hundred per cent that, when there has really been a reluctance to open up, it should also be covered by compensation. Back to the third question: on 21 April I asked here in Parliament whether the Prime Minister would help give the Danes their frozen holiday money back. And the Prime Minister replied: "I really think that both I and the Minister for Finance have said on several occasions that if there is a solution to the holiday money, we are happy to look at it. There is a liquidity challenge, and if it can be solved with the holiday money, we can consider it. Now the shops are open, the restaurants open, cafes and taverns open on Monday. Private consumption must push it all off, and there is no reason not to give the Danes their frozen holiday money back. So my question here is, did the Prime Minister have a look at the holiday money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135844	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135846	We are looking at a great many things, but we would also like to suggest that we do things in the right order. As far as the economy is concerned, the most important task in our view is to have the best phasing out of the aid packages, as is possible at all, and then we are talking about more general recovery. We have then, in addition to the proposal, proposed by other parties, I should like to say that we are getting started on the Landsbygningsfonden and, as I said, it may well be that the holiday money can be included in it. But first the aid packages and their phasing out, and that is not an easy task. It sounds like such a stroke of pen, but my assessment is that it will be much harder for the Folketing and the government to phase out the relief packages than it was to decide them. So this is the next major task before us, and I hope that the aid from the three economists in relation to the reopening, which I have the impression that the parties have been pleased, will also be able to be included in the work on the aid packages. That is certainly our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512135952	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140000	After all, the closure of the health care system has created a rather large hump that needs to be made up. And we know that in the coming many months both doctors and nurses will be incredibly busy, at least as soon as we start re-establishing patients' rights, by reducing this hump. In this context, I have come up with an idea which I would like to share freely with the Prime Minister and call for this to be pursued. And fortunately, it's a very simple and simple idea that can help ensure that the doctors and nurses have more time for the core task, more time for the patients and more quickly reduce this hump in an extraordinary time. The idea is quite simple: before the summer, the Prime Minister, in cooperation with doctors and nurses, will draw up a list of all the unnecessary bureaucracy that takes time from patients, from nurses and doctors, and then say: all this bureaucracy will be suspended for a year until the matter has been taken up. And when I suggest it, it's partly because there's this hump problem, partly because we've known for years that doctors and nurses are having too much bureaucracy. There's that famous study from the Danish Nursing Council that shows they're spending over 12 million. hours a year on unnecessary paperwork, in particular double registrations, but also records in general. They must make fall screenings, nutrition screenings, pain screenings for all patients who come in, even if they are healthy and just need to be controlled. In other words, it is also unnecessary bureaucracy, which may not be duplication of effort. And last year the Chief Medical Association had a study in which eight out of ten doctors said that bureaucracy had increased in recent years, and eight out of ten doctors thought it took time from the patient. That is why the proposal is actually quite simple: let us start a partnership and ensure that by 1 June we have a list of bureaucracy that we suspend one year forward. And if we are in a situation where nurses shout and say: Oh, no, we miss making pointless duplication or patients are so overwhelmed that doctors look at them instead of into the computer screen, then we can always restore bureaucracy. Is this something the government wants to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140202	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140204	This isn't so stupid, it's not. And what I hear from the health services is an enormous pleasure that this coronatid has been allowed to work interdisciplinaryly, holistic; the professional boundaries have been reduced and there have been fewer levels that have been asked about everything. For at least in the beginning, where there were a lot of covid patients, there was a lot of busyness. I am extremely opposed to the overbureaucratisation of the public sector, so this idea is not crazy. The question is whether it is the right way to go, to make lists of what you do not want. So the question is, can we achieve the same result by saying that they have to scratch out there, but then with less documentation requirements? We can discuss that; the idea is not stupid. There is one thing in an otherwise excellent speech that I would like to arrest, and that is when the questioner says that health professionals will be busy when the investigation guarantee is back in operation. I don't think that's a true picture... the health professionals have... and they're going to have that in the coming period, because they both have to deal with a lot of testing; they have to deal with covid patients, and they have to increase the activity in relation to the general health care. So the urgency will not be linked to the processing guarantee or the investigation guarantee. It will come in, and it has done so throughout the whole period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140336	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140337	It's not that we need to spend a lot of time on that part. There have also been many stories in the media about doctors and nurses saying that they actually do not really have so much to do because the normal treatment of patients is shut down and that there are not very many corona patients. So I think there may be a greater lack of busyness than busyness in these days, but there is no doubt that, as we normalize society, there will be all sorts of delayed operations that need to be made up. And I'm glad the Prime Minister signs constructively. But I just need to hear: is there something more concrete about the commitment? Is this something to be looked at and said that we are suspending some bureaucracy one year forward, and we have as our goal that we will do so before the summer? As the Prime Minister himself noted, there are all the positive and encouraging stories from nurses and doctors. And that was also in Berlingske here a few days ago, where they said it was absolutely fantastic that they should not ask three middle managers to be allowed to do their job. Is that something you want to do? Or is it such a: yes, yes, it's a good idea, but it's not going to happen? Well, can we get a concrete promise on that? It may as well not be my idea exactly, but what stands in the way of doing it, although the method may be a little different?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140436	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140438	Well, I have incredibly much sympathy for the idea, and there's something in it, because we need them to spend their time on the right thing out there. There were negotiations in the field of health, which unfortunately did not end up with an agreement, because I think it went a little the other way, I think, with more demands, right? So whether it is possible to reach a political agreement, I dare not say, but the idea is the right one. I will pass it on to the Minister for Health and suggest that we, together with the regions, look at how this can be done as unbureaucratically as possible. I like the way you think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140519	Alex Vanopslagh for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140521	Then I almost have to come up with a new question now that it was signed up so constructively. I hope that the Minister for Health will not defy his Prime Minister on this issue, when the Prime Minister says so clearly and clearly that this is a good idea. Let me think of something new. So I'm actually gonna pick up on my colleague, sir. Søren Pape's question about this distribution of the crisis bill, because I get a little worried when the Prime Minister says several times today that this time the crisis bill must be fair and fair. It is rather as if this means that the public sector should then be spared and protected. The crisis bill affects people in the private sector so far. They are the ones who lose their life's work, they are the ones who go bankrupt and have to turn the key, they are the ones who lose their job while the danger is not in the public sector. When the Prime Minister says that this time the crisis bill should be fair and fair, is it to be understood that fair and fair in the PM's approach is that the public sector should not help to pay the crisis bill by keeping a little back on consumption and perhaps by not hiring so many colleagues in the coming years? Perhaps there are some benefits or new expenses that need to be taken care of. Or what is it that the Prime Minister thinks was not fair and fair in the last crisis management?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140631	It is, of course, because justice and the public sector are being equated here. Well, I mean, the concept of justice is much wider than that. And when we look at the unemployment figures now, we see a pattern, as we have seen in other crises, namely that it is those with the shortest education and, moreover, often the hardest jobs that have also lost their jobs this time too early, and that requires a tremendous amount of attention on our part, so that this does not put itself in structural long-term unemployment among unskilled Danes who find it difficult to get back into the labour market. This is one of the most important things for me when we talk about a fair recovery of the Danish economy. It is also true that it is the private sector that is currently being fined with bankruptcies for some and with redundancies for other companies. That is why things need to be balanced. We need to get the Danish business community back on track after this crisis, but the unskilled person who has now lost his job completely innocent because of corona must feel the community very strongly this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140734	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512140748	Thank you, President. Last Question Time I asked the Prime Minister whether the Corona crisis might have given rise to thoughts in the government about the introduction of bourgeois pay, and I could understand from the Prime Minister that, to put it mildly, it was not at the top of the government's list of priorities. I could actually understand that it was probably no place on the government's list of priorities at all. Although this is an important point for the alternative, I would like to mention that this issue has nothing to do with the citizen's salary. My question is about the study on cash benefits without counterclaims, which has been completed and evaluated in Finland. Here there were briefly explained 2 000 people who for two years were exempt from coercion and control in the Finnish employment system, and 2 000 people who continued in the normal employment system, i.e. with coercion and control. The idea was to see if the Finns would still seek work if they were not forced and sanctioned, and the results were actually really interesting. Indeed, it turns out that the experimental group of 2 000 randomly selected Finnish unemployed people, who were forced and sanctioned, found just as much, even marginally more, work than the labour control system. At the same time, it turned out that those who were exempt from coercion and sanctions felt more secure and were more happy and had a higher quality of life. In fact, if that attempt is in the hands of believers and experience could be transferred directly to Denmark, it means that we do not need to force and sanction people for finding work, and thus a few billion could be saved in the employment system. And if the lifting of coercion and control results in better well-being and quality of life among the unemployed, it also suggests that it will result in a series of derived savings in the social and health sectors, where we have very high costs of human distrust. After all, it is not possible to draw great conclusions on a single experiment, nor can we transfer the Finnish experience directly to Denmark, but since it is not the only attempt on cash aid without counterclaims that has actually been successfully settled, and since the potential benefit of the experiment can be very high both human and economical, it might be time to investigate the matter further in Denmark. So my question to the Prime Minister is: what does it take to allow us to make an attempt to free the unemployed Danes, the case workers and, above all, the municipalities, where you look at whether a group of cash benefits recipients actually seek and find work without forcing them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141014	Now, I will not start by saying no, no, no, as I did last time about the civil salary, because this seems to me much more interesting, and I would like to take a closer look at the Finnish experience, which I must be honest to say I do not know. It will be impossible for anyone to claim that the Danish employment effort has produced the results that we need as a society, and if we cannot conclude that, then it is no use just to continue with the employment policy that has been going on for many years. I am a huge supporter of right and duty, simply because I basically think it is healthy that you support yourself and that you wake up in the morning and think what I can do good for this society instead of the opposite. So the right and duty thinking is my DNA as a Social Democrat. I must also note that, although there has been a right and duty in the field of employment for many years, we have women with a non-western background who have been on a service for 20-30 years without contributing to Danish society in terms of the labour market. It hasn't worked well enough, and I can at the same time note that when I visit Vesterbro here in Copenhagen, not so much the smart cafes, but inside the Men's home I meet hugged souls, abusers, deeply indebted, who have had a terrible childhood and didn't get the help of this welfare society and been whipped through by 16 different case workers without a perspective for a better life. There is simply something that does not work in this employment effort. We set out to try to solve some of the problems years ago. In the end, we red taped the area even more, made it even more legal, so there is simply a task that we have not undertaken. So I say here one cautiously: let's take a look at it. It doesn't work well enough as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141155	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141156	Thank you. Well, we'll approach the subject carefully. The next few questions are about the Corona crisis, and the first is from our Members, whom we ask every time, whether they have a question for the Prime Minister, and this time they will ask the Prime Minister: What has the Minister learned from the Corona crisis that the government can use proactively in relation to the climate crisis? Can we look forward to more consistent and goal-effective interventions, such as: in terms of formulating sub-laws and milestones in the Climate Act, now that we know that the government, companies, organisations and citizens can handle more comprehensive regulations than we actually dreamed of?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141240	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141242	I would say in general terms that the regulation we have seen during the Corona crisis, with associated restrictions, I will not propose to transfer to anything else. They have a sunset clause and must cease when it is no longer needed. This was an extraordinary situation and we are still in an extraordinary situation, and the way of thinking, in other words with an assembly ban and other restrictions, we should not transfer to other areas. But this crisis has taught us many things, and one very, very important thing is that the Folketing can make incredibly large and difficult decisions when the seriousness comes to light, and I think it is very legitimate to say that some of the seriousness we have seen in dealing with the corona crisis must now also be transferred to the climate area, because there is a crisis that can therefore be at least as great and on the long track even greater. So it is certainly an experience that we can collectively take with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141341	Sir. Torsten Gejl, last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141342	Thank you. In order to spread the same case a little to the rest of the world, I have my last question here: can the Prime Minister confirm that the government will press for the European Commission's recovery package to be as green as possible? Will the government, for example? Press for the Commission's proposed taxonomy for sustainable investment to be used to ensure that recovery is sufficiently green, or, for example, green. is the inclusion of the exclusion list from the Commission's proposal to the Fair Conversion Fund, which excludes investments in fossil energy? It was a high lixtal issue, so if the Prime Minister wants it again, we can take it one more time. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Well, there's no time for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141430	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141433	I hope that this does not indicate that if there are high lix numbers, you do not think that I understand what is being asked about. That would be a little too bad for the country, I would say. But we are being asked about these very specific lists, which I simply cannot explain on a stand-by basis. In general, I would say that the recovery of both Danish and European economies must be green, and there is a great deal of attention to this in European cooperation. And it is well known that Denmark is one of the countries that is trying to push for both the budget, but now, of course, the recovery issue is also greened. So I can confirm overall that it is in this direction that we are working, and it seems to be with broad support from the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141517	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you to the party leaders. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141528	Today there are the following reviews: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 169 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an international strategy for access to China in the field of trade). Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Britt Baker (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 170 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the suspension of companies' payments to the AU scheme in 2020). Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Jakob Silverhøj (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 171 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on maternity leave when you lose a child aged 0-18 (citizen's proposal)). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 172 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the invitation to negotiations on transport investment). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 173 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the calculation of construction costs for the construction of double tracks between Tinglev and Padborg). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 174 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of Muslim prayer calls in public spaces). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 175 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Social Insurance Act relating to COVID-19 (Reverse burden of proof of compensation for occupational injury in the context of COVID-19)). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Jeppe Bruus (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Jens Rohde (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Request no. F 63 (What can the government report on the status of the investigation of the assassination fire on the Scandinavian Star, where 159 people were killed, and further explain what the government intends to do in order for an investigation to come closer?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 30 April 2020, it was decided that the responsibility for various tasks under the joint state facility management solution and facility management regarding the Danish Accreditation Institution is transferred from the Minister for Education and Research to the Minister for Housing. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 30 April 2020 provides that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoors and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supplier and contract management, which relates to the Danish Accreditation Institution, is transferred from the Minister for Education and Research to the Minister for Housing per year. 20 May 2020. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen Finance Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the report on the state accounts for the financial year 2018. B 168) The report and recommendation will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Members of the Folketing Morten Messersschmidt (DF) and others I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the creation of a game advertising board. B 120) Does anyone wish to accept this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141823	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141859	Member of the Folketing Rasmus Jarlov applied for leave from 12 May 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512141920	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Conservative People's Party in the Greater District of Copenhagen, Hanne Bjørn-Klausen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 12 May 2020 on the occasion of Rasmus Jarlov's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted. Then we will take a short break, because it will take just a few minutes before we can proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143005	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143030	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143523	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143529	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143940	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512143945	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512144458	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? We need to get the legal rapporteurs in place. I ask again: does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512144539	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Justice as adopted It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512144549	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512144558	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 66 (S, V, DF, KF and NB), against 29 votes (RV, SF, EL, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145008	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145055	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145102	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF, NB and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145154	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145218	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution on the regulation of social media. This is a topical and relevant issue, which I look forward to discussing today and which I look forward to working on in the future too. Social media's responsibility for content on their platforms has rightly filled a lot in public and political debate recently. Social media have revolutionized the way we communicate in both good and evil. On the one hand, social media have made it easier to participate in the public debate in many ways. However, we have also seen a battle side of the easier access to express our opinions on platforms, both in terms of sometimes even very harsh tone in the debate and in terms of sharing illegal material. As I have said before, when we have discussed this issue here in the Folketing, we must recognise that we are dealing with an area that has grown up without a clear framework being set. At the same time, social media are private companies and they themselves determine the conditions under which users may use their platforms within the framework of the legislation. Now we have the challenge: how should we act to deal with the impact social media have on our society and our democratic conversation? With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to make social media more responsible for what is going on on their platforms. I would like to say that I agree with the authors of that paragraph and that, in my view, the proposal contains some excellent aspects. Indeed, the government shares the view that the social media platforms must meet with demands that reflect the importance they have in society today. Having said that, the issue of the role of social media in society is a complex issue calling for thorough reflection. We need to think carefully so that any regulation will also have the effect we actually want. That is why, in my view, the issue does not call for rapid solutions. As the proposers themselves have said, the issue of regulation of social media has a cross-cutting effect in relation to, among other things: freedom of expression, and that is where we must ensure that we strike the right balance between possible regulation and the right to express ourselves. It is a cornerstone of our society that we must safeguard. The report by the Freedom of expression Commission came out almost two weeks ago, and the Commission recommends, among other things, that restraint should be exercised in regulating social media in the interests of freedom of expression. This underlines the importance of getting the issue clarified from all relevant angles. The government has launched a work aimed at identifying the issues related to social media and at looking at the need to introduce regulation of the area. I do not think it would be appropriate to adopt a model of regulation such as the one proposed until the work on looking at the regulation of social media has been completed and the matter has been clarified from all relevant angles. That is not to say that we cannot end up with a similar model to the one proposed, but it is too early to conclude at this stage. Of course, in the further work we will be responsive to relevant input, both from the political side and from other stakeholders. The government cannot therefore support the resolution before us, but is working further on the issue. However, I would like to stress that the government is in exactly the same line as the proposers in relation to the fact that there is a fundamental problem that needs to be addressed. As I said, this is an issue that the government takes seriously and on which we are going to act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145614	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145619	Thank you. I had the pleasure of having the Minister in consultation in the autumn on this matter. It was as standin for the Minister of Culture, but yet I had the pleasure. That is precisely where we were waiting for this commission to complete its work. So I would like to know if the Minister could put a few more words on how the government will now plan the work forward. I hear that some work will now be started, but is there a timetable for when and in what direction? I like the words that the Commission is not recommending any more legislation on this, probably, but could the Minister say something about the direction in which the government is looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145659	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145700	I did not say that the commission or, strictly speaking, a committee would not have free hands to be able to recommend more legislation. The commission I was talking about was the Freedom of expression commission, which made their statement. We wait with respect for the work of the committee and see what they are proposing. But it is clear that we have to say that there is one area in which the situation as it is now offers some inappropriateness which requires us to do something politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145735	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145738	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your positive statement. I hope, of course, that we will end up giving the victims some rights here. Because what all organizations say is that the longer it is on the web the shared nude image or whatever it may be, the greater the spread, and the harder it will be to delete this digital memory. And the Prime Minister was very clear in the spring and said: we need to regulate this area. That is why, of course, I am sorry that we have not come any further here the following year. But can the Minister say anything about when we can expect the victims of these divisions to get some help, i.e. when that committee is going to report?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145828	I would like to answer that, but, like everything else, we have had a Corona situation which has meant that the work has been stalled and that the period has been extended. And we are only now in the process of getting to grips with all the different issues that have remained untouched. In my own view, however, there is no reason not to proceed quickly, as quickly as possible, with this work. It must also be said, given the circumstances, that it is at least unrealistic that regulation can be made on this side of the summer holiday, but I wonder if the new season is a reasonable estimate of when we can hopefully be in place with some regulation. What you can imagine is that this is a very complex area, and there are many difficult interests that cross, but there should be no lateness.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145921	The questioner for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145923	Well, that sounds good, because I believe that there are a great many victims waiting to have the opportunity to take back control of what has happened, and they just cannot do so with the current legislation. And I do not know how the Minister feels about it, but I certainly think that if naked images or sex videos are shared without the consent of the other party or child pornography is shared, as this proposal is also about, it can never be shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512145959	However, legal sanctions must be imposed when crimes such as this are committed. Let me take one example, which I think we all know: the so-called umbrella case, where images were shared very, very many times by young people, where there have been a lot of inquiries, in relation to whether it is not too hard that they should be punished for it and pay compensation because they have unknowingly or inadvertently come to do so here, but where they are still being punished. And there's my opinion that that's the rules, so when you do it, you have to take your punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150033	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150036	Thank you, President. And I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement, which, on the one hand, makes good sense, so if there is work going on, then we should not do anything that can, like, push that work, and we all get smarter and things like that, but on the other hand, this is a motion for a resolution which the Minister will know has no legal force. Well, it requires the government to put forward a bill. And the minister says he wants to come forward with a bill after this commission has barred. So I would just like to ask: what is it actually that prevents the two things from being realized at the same time? So, could it not be imagined that in order to show good will to all the people who are victims on the Internet, the Minister is awaiting the work of the Commission and then doing the right thing both today and then?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150134	We do not need to discuss the legal implications of a resolution here. However, since we do not know what the committee's recommendations will be, including whether they will recommend regulation, it would of course be to anticipate what they might say if we say that we will in any case do so. That is my view, but I would like to see the work of the committee and the arguments and reasoning that the committee has ■ that we are dealing here with an area that calls for regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150208	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150210	I think I feel the same way, and I hope that this will also apply to a majority of the Danish Parliament. That is why one might ask: since the Minister is showing this incredibly great patience with the Commission, is there one of the elixirs mentioned here in the motion for a resolution and which I congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution would like to say that I think has been chosen with surgical precision, which the Minister can imagine is not a single one that the Minister would say should not be illegal to do if you do so online?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150249	No, but I think we have to see the problem as twofold: on the one hand, there is something which must be stopped, which must be removed, where sanctions must be imposed, in relation to it being carried out; on the other hand, there is something that is being removed, which is determined by company policies, etc., where we really have to consider whether there is a need for regulation, so that there is some content that should be allowed to be there with the right to be there. Well, this is really very, very complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150323	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150326	Thank you. We are also very concerned about this here in the Enhedslisten and, as you know, two years ago we changed the instructions that the police have for the victims of digital violations. I myself see this as a rather big step in relation to the way in which people are treated as victims of a digital infringement in our legal system. So I just want to hear from the Minister how the Minister thinks that the police in particular should be involved in the work that will then be done on the basis of the Commission and on the basis of the debates we have. I therefore fully understand that we want to wait and want to do more thorough work, and I also imagine that we can have some hearings in the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about the involvement of the authorities here, in other words both courts and police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150413	But I think this is one of the areas in which the police face some challenges that we simply have not managed sufficiently so far. In other words, the actor on social media, online, etc. requires guidance, as Mrs Rosa Lund says, but it requires guidance, for example. It is also an effort to provide information, so that awareness of what can and must not be improved. But it also requires our police to be better able to tackle these cyber-criminal acts of different kinds. This is also one of the issues that has already been put on the agenda in our debates in connection with the multiannual agreement on police and prosecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150451	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. So we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150520	Thank you. I've never been the first mover as it is called when it comes to new technology. I remember that wondering feeling of being left out by the friends who stopped calling on my parents' landline phone to invite me to a party until I realized that the communication had moved on to the text messages on the new Nokia mobile phones. I was about 18-20 years old and thus perhaps also the last generation, which reached a youth without the mobile phone. That was when porn was something we read about in Report, and in this way a lot has happened since. The Internet has changed our world for good and for evil, and the text messages are long ago only one of many new channels of communication that shape our association with our family, our friends, our colleagues and many new acquaintances with which we would otherwise never have been in contact. It challenges our association, and it moves our borders. Developments make great demands, especially for our children and young people, to be able to maneuver these many different platforms, requirements for standards of good behaviour and decency that must follow. Of course, the development makes great demands on those who develop and operate the platforms, and it requires us politicians to handle the regulation of these platforms. That is why I think that this motion for a resolution addresses a very important and complex issue. Because, on the one hand, we cannot accept that social media is a slaraff country, where illegal content can only be shared with impunity and where the victims will always be the losers, and, on the other hand, as the resolution also states, we must of course also weigh up in terms of freedom of expression and the possibility of enforcing some of the principles that otherwise we will not compromise. As the Minister for Justice has already said, we are looking at some of this in a government job. In addition, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have decided that we will hold hearings. We are also at the back of the Freedom of expression commission, and we will invite experts, stakeholders, etc. in order to exchange views and also look at how we can work on this. Although the emergence of social media presents a number of challenges and issues, it is also an important task, including for Parliament, to deal with it. I have also studied some of the things I have not fully achieved as the Freedom of expression commission came along with, and I think it was perhaps the vague side of understanding and tackling the challenges we face, and I am very pleased to discuss this with the other parties here in the Danish Parliament, because there should be no doubt that in the Social Democratic Party and in the government we are of course looking very seriously at the issues that are also highlighted in the SF's motion for a resolution, and that is why we would like to continue working on it. In line with what the Minister of Justice also said, we will not be supporting the resolution here, but will certainly continue to work on the individual elements of the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150843	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150848	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is a little strange, because I hear a lot of complimentary words about seeing quite sympathetic proposals here too, but then you will not press the green button anyway. There is only one Social Democrat here in the Kingdom who thinks that we should regulate on Facebook, and it is apparently Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt who has now been appointed to sit in some guardian's council, but I would be a little more confident there that it was the Social Democrats who are today in government who had the same nerve and enthusiasm to ensure the decency of the social media. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur, just as I asked the Minister for Justice before, whether there is one of the elixirs here that the rapporteur can imagine to be legal when they are implemented on social media? After all, there is no civilised country that, if any of this were done in the square or some other public place in the real reality, would not sanction by either a fine or a prison sentence, or whatever. These are quite, quite crude things we are talking about. Why on earth do we not have a government that is capable of action to ensure that it is also severely sanctioned if it is done in virtual reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512150954	My acquaintance is a lot of this... now I don't like all the paragraphs here... illegal in advance, and it'll be sanctioned if you share it, too, on Facebook. It is not the case that it is legal to display illegal content just because you do it on a social medium. Then the rapporteur asks some of the specific questions, and it is very specific here, that there should be a way of complaining through NemID further, and these are perhaps some of the things we can discuss. I cannot assess whether it is the most appropriate or not, but in this way, of course, there are some elements in this which we must discuss together. But it is not the case that what is illegal becomes legal because it is done online.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151032	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151034	But that's what this is about, sir. Jeppe Bruus. Today it is the case that we have a criminal law which says what you as a private person, a company, etc. We must not do so and, as a result, we must be punished for doing so. Then we have a media liability law that says that if the media that is registered add columns, or if someone does, they can be punished, but we do not have legislation that says that large American multinationals that skimp the cream on, that there are all kinds of crazy people sitting around with threats on the Internet can be punished. It is, of course, the legal incoherence which the government seems to be shooting to the corner while they say that we see it on another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151110	Ah, I guess that's not exactly what we said. I heard the Minister for Justice say that, and I do not know if I heard myself say it, but I would like to say that I recognise the issue and I would also say that there is indeed a need for regulation here. The Umbrella case, which the Minister of Justice also mentioned, shows that these people were actually punished because they shared illegal content via social media platforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151130	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151135	It is difficult to get a clear answer as to whether the Socialists will go in this direction, but I would just like to ask: does the Socialist rapporteur think that today our police and courts are effective enough in securing the victims who are exposed to this? It's a felony. Yes, but with regard to the effectiveness of removing the criminal material on the Internet that is tormenting and tormenting the victims of this, should the victims not be made better? Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that there is a problem with the fact that we have a slow police force and some slow courts that cannot ensure that this material is removed and that the victims are thus at risk of being divided to the right and to the left, and that it will be impossible to remove because there is just a long time to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151232	Yeah, I mean, there's a problem. I believe that there is a problem with some of this material being for too long and not being removed, and therefore there is also a need to regulate the companies operating these platforms. And for my sake, we may end up with a few deadlines. So I agree with that part of it. In relation to the proceedings of the police and the courts, I am not in dispute in this way. Well, there are many other challenges we work with together. But there is certainly a problem here, and there are plenty of cases that document it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151305	I think it is nice that it is recognised that it is a problem, but I cannot understand why it cannot be clearly said that, of course, this material must be removed so that we can protect the people who are exposed to this and who have their lives destroyed because of this. That's just what I can't understand, so you don't want to say clearly that you want to go in this direction. But to me, this is one of the only things that can protect the victims from that material being shared. It's a future employer, it's a future boyfriend, it's upcoming sportsmates who can always search for your name and find your sex video. So that's not a very nice thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151349	If there is illegal content, if there is a video of a sexual act taken against your will and that is shared on social media, then I fully agree that it needs to be removed and that it needs to be removed quickly and that we need to look at the regulation of it. This is among other things. Some of the work that I also understand has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151408	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151418	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for highlighting a very topical and very important issue. The great media giants such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and many more have had a huge impact on our democracy and on our freedom of expression. They have created access for everyone to express themselves in the public debate, and they have made it much easier for citizens to get in touch with, among other things. We politicians. Facebook alone is over one and a half billion users every day, and four out of five Danes have a facebook profile. I don't think any of us in here disagree that social media should of course not be abused to spread either terrorist propaganda, child pornography, fake news or hate speech. Basically, it is always the person who uploads something on social media who is responsible for the legality of the content. But it is not alone. You can also hold social media responsible for bringing illegal content up on their platforms, as the legislation is today, for example. in accordance with the rules of the e-commerce law or the general rules of the criminal code on participation. And we also saw in the umbrella case that people were actually held responsible. We in the Left are not blind to the fact that there may be a discrepancy between the extent of illegal statements and the number of cases actually pursued. After all, this has also been stated in their report by the Freedom of Freedom Commission. That is why we are also pleased that the government has initiated inter-ministerial cooperation to look at the regulation of social media, and we look forward to the outcome of that work. Because we want the right balance to be struck where freedom of expression is not unintentionally curtailed. We have also seen major problems when Facebook, for example. removes content or even blocks a user profile at home often without giving the user a reason. I remember, for example. very clearly when Facebook removed a cover image from the author Peter Øvig Knudsen's book on the hippie movement because there was too much nudity. We have also seen examples that pictures of nursing mothers have been removed. So there are many examples that the right balance is difficult to find. In the Left, we are very aware of the problems that exist. We want to act on them if further action is required. We support regulation. We also support the fact that we must guarantee the legal position of the victims better than we do today. However, we want to have a solid basis on which to stand, and that is why we await the work of the government, both the inter-ministerial and the consultations that we have agreed to hold together before adopting a model. So to the SF, to the proposers: we support the intention; we think it is very sympathetic and we also agree to regulate further if the work shows that it is required, but we do not support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151758	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151802	It will be a little unclear to me whether the Left supports the fact that there must be a deadline for removing illegal content. After all, none of what has been proposed here has anything to do with a nude image being removed from some book. This is about criminal matters, it's about sharing child pornography, it's about sharing nude images, so it has nothing to do with what Facebook himself thinks of removing. This has something to do with a citizen saying: I'm in that video, and I want you to delete that content because it's been shared without my consent. Or it may be an authority that addresses itself. So is the Left for or against us getting a time limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151847	I can say quite clearly that we are in favour. There's none of the parts described in this proposal that we think are really bad. It all sounds very sympathetic, and we are also in favour of it. When I mention that example, it is because it describes the balance, and the balance is what is difficult in relation to sharing on Facebook. YouTube and Facebook had a quite excellent seminar over at Google six months ago, and it is very regrettable that the rapporteur was not present because it actually described the ethical issues they face and gave some excellent examples of how difficult it can be to find the right balance. So this isn't in any way simple. This does not mean that we do not support the regulation we do, but we need to find out what kind of regulation is the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512151941	I can reassure myself that I have had meetings with both Facebook and Google, and I have heard about their challenges, but they mainly go on such things as hateful utterances that I admit can be extremely difficult to assess. I do not think it is difficult to assess whether something is child pornography, nor do I think that it is difficult to make an assessment of it if someone comes and says: I am in that sex video, and I would like you to remove it, because it is shared without my consent. And that's why I'm thinking that it would have been easy to say yes to this and make sure there was a direction in it. Nor do I know whether the rapporteur thinks that sharing child pornography or sex videos without consent is an expression of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152024	I almost hope that the rapporteur knows what I think of that, because otherwise we will at least start at the bottom of the ladder. Of course, as a victim, we must be able to demand that something like this be removed and, of course, there must be a deadline. But it's not that easy. We should not, of course, make patchwork solutions in this area; we need to find out exactly how to regulate, not only in the case mentioned here by the proposer, but in general terms, and that is why we need the inter-ministerial work to be completed, and that is why we also need to hold the hearing we have agreed to hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152103	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. So we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152112	Thank you, President. After all, all that can be said is a statement, but it is not everything that can be expressed that is covered by freedom of expression. Although we quite often agree, when we talk about freedom of expression, to try almost to outdo each other in who can protect freedom of expression as much as possible, I really believe, when one comes a little below the surface of the debate on freedom of expression, that no one at all is in favour of full freedom of expression. I think we are relatively in agreement that we should not write on gummy bears, that this is something that promotes health, and we are relatively in agreement that the statements which the Socialist People's Party's proposals here propose to sanction should of course be punishable, and that has been part of the Danish penal code for very many years, as in the criminal laws of all other civilised countries. So freedom of expression is a complicated matter. There are private-law and public-law dilemmas, including: What Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says about the fact that you feel abused in a video that may have been put on, for example. Facebook, it should really be easy to handle, all the time that when you withdraw your consent you should have a matter of private law between the person who feels violated, and then Facebook as a provider should have closed the case. Then it should be obvious that Facebook or other platforms I shouldn't be hanging anyone specifically out here... must be obliged to withdraw it, as well as if you are using a picture or a movie, or whatever it is that infringes a copyright. That's the way it is. And there, in Facebook, you've traditionally been quite good. Now we have the discussion about whether, with the two realities that are now on this planet, namely the real reality and the virtual reality, we are going to start to merge the legal complexes. I find it very difficult to see what the argument against So, why should it be legal to put forward a statement that poses an obvious threat to the security of the state, on social media, when it is not out there in the real world? Why should it be legal to break people's letter secret on social media when it is not in the real world? And that's how you can keep doing it. That is why I thought it earlier when I said that I think that the delicts chosen by the authors of this motion for a resolution have been very well elected, because, as the rapporteur said earlier, we could have chosen some areas which would be a little more ambiguous. I mean, like... We have, of course, the vaunted provision in section 266b of the Penal Code about what some call the free debate... the frivolous expression... and others call ugly racism. I'm glad that's not part of this proposal. I think it has been struck very well, and I would therefore also like to say on behalf of my party, the Danish People's Party, that we have the greatest sympathy for what is here. There may be some corners which may appear to be somewhat formalistic in nature, but at a time when we know that the Ministers of the Majesty are quite busy containing a virus, it may be equally legal to ask for such a comprehensive bill to be tabled before this parliamentary assembly expires. On the other hand, it was a little unclear what the Minister meant earlier, i.e. whether or not resolutions actually have a legally binding character, and I am looking forward to digging a little closer into that. I think that is also in order to put a prejudice forward we can have a mutual interest in clarifying. But I think that these are good ideas that the Socialist People's Party has made here, in terms of how we ensure real people out in the unreal world, because that is what this is all about. It doesn't hurt any more to be offended, hit, hurt, or victimized on the Internet than it does in the real world. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152516	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512152536	Thank you for the floor. Roll yourself in the harbor, Kristian. Push him over the stairs. When you see him, you miss Darwin sometimes. Little shit-hobbit. I don't think he's just physically handicapped. Maybe you should just shut up and wait to talk until you've learned to walk. Yes, it is not for delicate souls what is sometimes written on social media. If you get mixed up in the public debate, the conditions have become such that you have to be able to tolerate the writing of some of each of you. Social media have provided more opportunities to express themselves at several times of the day. It has strengthened the public debate that several voices are heard, but it has also led to a sometimes very disgusting debate of dimensions. When the cellar trolls typically without a picture of their face on the profile picture have emptied the cola and found the greasy keyboard, they don't shy away from it. Fourth Vice-President Excuse me, just a moment. There's just a little bit of unrest out there, so we could ask for a little more subdued speech out there. ) They don't shy away from any means at all. It is fine that there are differences of opinion and that there should be in the debate as in this Chamber and the waves can also go high, it is quite fair, but hateful speech and harassment: no thank you. Sharing intimate images without consent: No thanks. Many of us may have got used to this kind of harsh rhetoric from the Internet trolls, but I really believe that it keeps a lot of people from interfering in the debate, and that prevents many from engaging in politics because they do not have the courage to swindle. Is it worth it? many will ask. And if that is the case, if it is true that some are abstaining from the debate, then that really means that the increasing amount of hate speech on social media also restricts freedom of expression for some; and since we have all signed up to the Constitution, we all appreciate and pay tribute to freedom of expression, and then it is not acceptable that some people feel limited in using it. That is why we must do something about the hateful and harassing speech that is taking place. We need to do something about terror-related content, about sharing intimate images without consent. We must not tolerate that. And if an intimate image is first shared, then it spreads fast, and then the damage has happened. But it is not easy, because, as the Freedom of expression Commission also mentions in its report which has just been published, it is particularly enforcement that lags behind. Some of what is written and some of what we already distance ourselves from is And even if you're a private company, you can't be exempt from the penal code. There is no doubt that social media today have been given very great power, but it must also be matched by responsibility. And it may seem a little random how these things are sometimes enforced. An example is that instagram 2 weeks ago systematically took down a certain Danish government critical meme from the Instagram profile dkpå-memes. A meme is an image with a text that can be compared to a satire drawing. It was an image I wouldn't have posted myself in other cases, but because it was systematically taken down for a lot of users, I tried to put it up myself. Here, too, that picture was taken down. It was a meme that, compared to so many other memes, was quite harmless, yet Instagram took it down. This meant that, as a parliamentary politician on Instagram, the government was not to be criticised. That is why I was pleased that we agreed on a cross-party basis that it is not acceptable. Among other things: Mr. Jeppe Bruus also supported the fact that it is not going to work. On the basis of that, it turned into a media case that ended up in Instagram making the picture legal again. And it should not be the law of the jungle that prevails when it comes to such a central democratic debate, which is taking place in many places on social media. That is why there is clearly potential for significant improvements, and we support several of the SF's proposals in this motion for a resolution; not all of them, but we see them as an important part of the debate and I wonder if we can write a good report and record that we are all willing to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153028	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153032	I have some doubts when I hear the rapporteur speak. Does the rapporteur think that there must be other rules for the social media than in the real world? When you use hateful or offensive rhetoric, it is a subjective assessment unless it is something that the courts assess. I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that there should be a board which, as an overjudge, must assess what is offensive, what is hateful or what is problematic rhetoric, or whether it should follow Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153109	My clear assessment is that this is a matter for the courts and that it is up to the judges to decide on it. I actually think that the Freedom of expression Commission has some good comments on this in their report, which I think is very exciting, namely that the hate speech that is being made should not necessarily be further reduced on social media. First of all, it is about enforcement that lags behind, and not about the fact that we need to further illegal content.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153137	Are there any follow-up comments? No. The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153146	I thank the radical rapporteur for the recognition of this proposal. I think that is one of the more positive statements in the Chamber today. I would very much like to help write a report if there are more of the parties in the Chamber who will be prepared to do so. We can easily find out. I am getting a little curious about what it is that the radical rapporteur thinks you cannot support this proposal. Perhaps the rapporteur would like to add a few words to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153218	I'd love to. I fully share the comments that the SF has made on several issues about, in particular, this sharing of digital images and the kind where there is a real need to take action. So we can really count on the Radical Left in this regard. Compared to the six points I remember here, it is particularly important that you log in with NemID and something like that. What about children under the age of 15 who want to report? I am also uncertain whether a given deadline would be a good idea. The Freedom of Speech Commission has some comments and concerns about this 24-hour rule in, among others. France and Germany, which cause non-legal content to be taken down, and it may well be unfortunate if legal content is taken down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153307	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153308	I would say that the NemID validation is there to ensure that there are not a lot of groundless complaints coming into the system and overburdening the system and that people are not harassing each other. However, I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur thinks that we have a very effective enforcement of the legislation today. Well, are police and courts today enough to secure the victims of these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153341	It is my very clear conviction that we have very inefficient enforcement in relation to what is happening today. There is far too much hate speech, there are too many who share pictures, and it must both go faster, and more must be taken down than there is today; there is no doubt about that at all. It is an excessively sloppy approach, and it is very nasty speech that many are greeted by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153400	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur to be on the platform is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153421	Thank you. Social media have come to stay and fortunately for that, one can say, because in many ways social media have created much better conditions for freedom of expression and for public debate. Social media have given voices to a great many who were not previously heard on the radio or read in the newspapers' debate columns. And our free and equal access to the public conversation is a fundamental and important part of our democracy, and I believe that social media has actually contributed to that. But the medal also has a backside, because at the same time the Internet and social media have become a place where women and minorities in particular are increasingly subjected to hatred, harassment and threats, and I must spare you the messages that lie in my own facebook inbox. It creates problems for exactly the same freedom of expression, because hatred on the Internet leads to some kind of self-censorship. So that hatred and threats are helping to prevent some from taking part in the public debate, and that is a problem for freedom of expression, I think. Digital violence and digital harassment have serious consequences both for people and for freedom of expression, and online is free to play right now. Sharing of insulting content, sharing of insulting images and offensive videos, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, is free to play right now, and there we in the Enhedslist fully agree with the Socialist People's Party that the tech giants and social media should be given much greater responsibility for stopping digital violence and removing the illegal content that is online. We believe, however, that this should be done in a way that does not have any consequences for freedom of expression or our online activity, and without giving the tech giants more power, because they have too much power today, we believe in the Enhedslisten. It should not be up to tech giants such as Facebook to assess when the content on their platforms is contrary to Danish law and thus to be removed. We believe that this is a task for the Danish authorities. The Enhedslisten also believes that it is not enough to impose a responsibility on social media to remove illegal or offensive content if they discover it themselves or if a user makes them aware that it is flourishing, for all experience so far shows that it is obvious both convenient and profitable for the tech giants just to turn a blind eye while there is this illegal sharing on their platforms. Instead, we will propose in the Enhedslisten that we place greater moderation responsibility on the tech giants, which is carried out by persons with legal competences and knowledge of the local context that is in Denmark. The moderators must inform Danish authorities if there is a suspicion of an offence. On the other hand, authorities and courts must be guaranteed the necessary resources, which they do not have today, to stop the division of illegal content. Action must be taken quickly and effectively so that harmful content does not spread more than is necessary. At the same time, we fully agree that it is a very good idea to create a digital supervisory body to monitor whether social media ensure that Danish law is not violated on their platforms. For Danish law must be observed when working in Denmark. It cannot be right that just because you are called Facebook or Google, you are not obliged to comply with the Danish Penal Code. Of course you are. We demand exactly the same of all other companies operating in Denmark. That is why we fully agree that it is a good idea for a supervisory body. Then I would also say in relation to the proposal that I am very sceptical about having to create a complaint system using NemID. This is very unclear to me, and I hope that the SF rapporteur will be able to clarify this either in committee or in his rapporteur's speech to whom he is given his NemID. Is that Facebook? Is that Google? I do not want to be the way we complain about the things that are going on on their platforms, but it seems that we can talk about it, I have listened to earlier in the debate. But at least I think that part is of great concern, just as it is worrying that you can read this proposal as if you are actually giving more power to Facebook and to Google. In the Enhedslisten, we are concerned about depriving the tech giants of the power and ensuring that the authorities in Denmark can ensure that Danish law is respected so that the police and courts have more resources to stop the illegal content that is on the web and that violates, unfortunately, very many, not only young people, but in fact all of them every day. So we are very much in agreement with the intentions of this resolution, but as it stands here, we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153932	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512153934	I fully understand the wish of Enhedslisten that the Danish authorities should play a more active role. I can only be concerned, with such a little bit of experience as the legal rapporteur, that sufficient resources will ever be provided to enable us to really lift this area. So does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that it will actually be likely that we will be given resources so that there will be effective enforcement of this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154012	Well, I guess so, I'd say. At any rate, we intend to work for this in the Enhedslisten, because I would like to say that with my long experience of working with this area of digital abuse, I do not trust above a threshold on either Facebook or Google. So I am very worried about putting more responsibility on them; I am very worried that they themselves will have to be responsible for removing this content, because I simply do not think that is going to happen. And it's just my experience from working with this area for a few years now: that I doubt that's gonna happen. So let's give priority to police resources in this area, and we can hope so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154052	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154054	So, I would say that the experience of Germany, where you have that legislation, is that it actually works. And I think that some of what the tech giants, after all, have a little respect for, is if there are large fines. So is this not something that Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks could actually help to drive a development in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154117	It could be. In fact, my impression is that the law in Germany does not really work, because there is this whole debate on freedom of expression. At any rate, I think that the German law has taken a step too far, in other words, in relation to where the limit on the content of the infringement lies. It seems to me that insulting content on the Internet is defined in the criminal code, just as I also believe that freedom of expression stops where the criminal code starts. And that's why I'm very worried about copying the German model one to one. So I actually disagree slightly with the rapporteur that it has worked in Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154148	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154158	Thank you. A few years ago I was in Egypt and bought a bestseller from a book, Hitler's Mein Kampf· in Arabic. You're curious. I took a picture of the front page, put it on Facebook with a text where I ridiculed the book. Less than an hour passed, and the cover was removed. You sometimes get confused on social media, because what's allowed, what's forbidden, and where's the limit? So there really is a need for better guidelines. With this resolution, the SF proposes that the responsibility of social media to remove illegal content be clarified. We agree with that. This has to be done, among other things. This will be done by setting specific deadlines for the speed with which social media are to remove illegal content. SF also proposes the introduction of a means of redress where users can complain about illegal content. This right of appeal must also apply to consumers who believe that they have had legal content removed and that there is a reason why it was illegal. By establishing a clear framework for the responsibility of social media, we ensure that more effective action is taken against illegal content on social media. I also believe that it is in the social media's own interest that there should be an increased focus on this, because I doubt that there are any social media themselves who want their platform to be used by criminals, terrorists, etc. who share illegal content. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are in favour of the SF resolution and we welcome the fact that the SF has also taken into account the importance of maintaining freedom of expression, including on social media. However, it is the view of the Conservative People's Party that the problem of illegal content on social media is best solved in cooperation with the social media themselves, which must also have an interest in it, and we hope that this is a key element of the proposal that the government is working on, namely that dialogue with social media becomes a key element there, because there is a need for clearer guidelines. So we are in favour of the proposal, but we will not vote green on the proposal because we await the government's initiative and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154454	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154503	Thank you. Facebook must remove illegal expressions, actions or images, and they must do so within a time limit of e.g. 24 hours. But the whole question and definition depend on when it is illegal. Who's to judge whether it's illegal? I believe that this should be a task of authority, because it must not be the case that we make Facebook a sort of overjudge who goes in and makes decisions on behalf of certain citizens, because we are moving into something dangerous, whose rulers and Facebook, which has a special role in society, form part of an alliance, because then I, as a citizen and champion of civil rights, freedoms and freedom of expression, will be worried. Now there have been some cases that have been brought up, among others. The umbrella case, and those responsible were punished. There is also a clause in the legislation on participation, and I would like to see us delving into that issue in the committee's work. As far as I am aware, that paragraph has not been used, and why is it that the prosecution does not use that paragraph? Do we actually already have a paragraph in the current legislation that can address this issue, but is it just not being used, and what can be the reason for this? Or does the prosecution not think that it is appropriate for the work that should be done if such a burden of proof were to be lifted? So before we can say for or against anything, we would like this to be clarified more thoroughly. We were a little worried when we read the SF proposal, where there are violations, because what are these violations? We live in a democracy and being violated is part of living in a democracy. What offends me may not violate the rapporteur of the SF, but it is a premise to live in a democracy that one can well be violated. I do not want to live in a society where it is forbidden to violate the feelings of others. That is why there are some concerns about what a board needs to be set up. What kind of people are they to be appointed by, and what are their powers? Should they be judges, must they be politically appointed so that there can be a difference, depending on the political majority at a given time? So there are a whole series of things that we would like to get immersed in here in this proposal that we think we are and we would like to acknowledge that contains some things that may be relevant to look at, but at this stage we cannot decide whether we will answer yes or no, because there are many, many unknown questions in connection with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154831	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154835	Thank you for the floor. It is on purpose that we have kept the proposal a little open, because we are well aware that there are many different views on how it might look, and we can in fact discuss how such a board can be composed. It might well be that the authorities have set up some to look at it and that perhaps social media are asked to finance it. It could be one model, but you can discuss that. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm from the platform that it may actually be an authority that asks Facebook or other social media to remove some things within a deadline. That is what the proposal says. Then it is true that citizens can also report something, and there was the idea, perhaps more, that you will do it if you are part of something that has been shared it could be a sex video and say: this is not something I have said yes to. Then the citizen will be able to have it removed, and that is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512154939	I think that when you take the example of a sex video, we'll all say: okay, that's fair. But there may also be many other cases where there are grey areas. For example: Could a picture have been put up by the rapporteur, whom she may not like, and with a text that she does not like and which she thinks violates her... one has the right to say to Facebook: I feel offended by that I have not given the right to use that image of me? Then Facebook must remove it, and there it may actually be that there was a valid reason to use that image because it was taken in a situation where you could take that picture. So there's a whole range of gray areas. Therefore, it is important that it is authorities that decide on this and that it is not just people's own subjective gut feeling that you just feel offended by something and thereby try to get something removed before an authority has decided whether it is legally okay that this should be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155026	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155028	Can the rapporteur not confirm that all these violations, on which there has also been a great deal of discussion, are precisely not part of this proposal? Because this is all about the cases where criminal law has been violated... it's about encouraging others to enlist for conflicts in other countries, it's child pornography, it's sex pictures without consent etc. I actually recognise that there may be a challenge in terms of violations and utterances in general there is a large grey area where it can be difficult to legislate but that is precisely not part of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155113	No, and that's where we go in and say, "Well, isn't that already illegal?" Isn't that already illegal, and isn't that why it gets removed when it's found? That is why we are going in and would like to have examples, in other words to see whether this is actually a problem at the present time or whether it is actually being resolved under current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155136	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155141	I have great sympathy with the principle expressed by the rapporteur, namely that it should be the authorities that make decisions, but I am wondering whether we now agree to put it into practice. Because if we look at the way the media liability law works today, we also require the Danish media, including on the Internet, to have a more • what is such a thing? If one now imagined that some mad Muslim posted a video on a website, a newspaper website where he calls for Jews or Christians to be killed, it could be a year before he is convicted in court. Is that sir? Lars Boje Mathiesen's view that the newspapers in question should then leave the invitation to kill Jews and Christians on the website until the terrorist Muslim in question has been convicted in court?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155242	No, and that's the debate about what Facebook is. Is Facebook an informative platform that makes its platform available and thus does not have editorial responsibility, or does Facebook accept, as I hear them say, that they actually want, an editorial responsibility for what is going on on their pages? If they do so, and if that is the trend we are now seeing so far, they have, of course, like edited themselves out of it by saying that they are not editing content, and that is why they do not have that editorial responsibility; that is the way in which we in Europe have gone about it legally, so that if they take responsibility for this editorial content, it is a different matter, and then I share the rapporteur's view that there is a different set of rules to follow. And if you look at the person responsible for Facebook in the Nordic countries, he just said that Facebook wanted this editorial responsibility. That's why we need to define these social platforms first: what kind of legislation do they have to come under?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155340	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155342	In this context, we can then discuss whether the media liability law should then be applied to media which do not produce the content themselves, but provide a platform for those who then produce the content to have the opportunity to publish it. Does the rapporteur agree that this could be a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155401	At any rate, I think it is worth a thought as to what legislation should be covered. Now I am not the legal rapporteur, and I have not determined which model will be exactly the right one there, but I like the idea that the law of expression and the freedom of expression and the rules that apply under the current legislation also apply to platforms that are social platforms that, if you make a cut similar to what is illegal to express in the current legislation, it also applies, of course, to social platforms. That is my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155434	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155442	Thank you. Just when I saw the resolution in the first place, I was very concerned because I thought: Oh, no, is it now such a proposal that must go in and regulate and ban so-called violations, bullying and saying something politically incorrect about minorities? I understand that, fortunately, you may not have walked away from it and made a more open proposal. Nevertheless, I would just like to take a few seconds to warn against moving down that track in the future, saying that democracy must restrict freedom of expression, because certain groups in society should have the patent or the right not to have their feelings hurt. That is the slow but secure undermining of liberal democracy and freedom of expression, and that is the direct way to promoting intolerance. Fortunately, that is not what the resolution is about, but I would also just like to warn against moving down that track sometime in the future, because the trends we generally see in the Western world, which are trying to limit people's freedom of expression with some political correctness, so to speak, are deeply worrying. Fortunately, the SF has been minded and has limited its proposal to things that are already illegal, and we are in favour of not calling for terrorism, blackmailing people, making threats of violence, sharing child pornography and the like. I mean, things that are illegal, we are in favour of being illegal and we need to be punished. We are somewhat sceptical about whether the answer to that should be the creation of yet another authority to keep an eye on things that are illegal, because we already have one authority that keeps an eye on things that are illegal, and that is the police. And my impression is that if Facebook doesn't do it in advance, it can help ensure that Facebook also removes illegal content from their pages, and we would be sorry if we had to set up another public authority full of DJs, diversity consultants, and what do I know, which may not be able to do better than the police. In short, the Liberal Alliance really has sympathy with the idea, but we do not need to regulate ourselves out of something that is regulated, we do not need to ban something that is prohibited, and we do not need to illegal anything that is already illegal, and that is why we are sceptical about this proposal, although it was not as bad as we thought at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155713	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last to speak now is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512155728	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate, which I think we can call a little mixed candy and with very different views on what needs to be done. When I put forward this proposal, it was especially because I was preoccupied with the victims who have shared sex videos without consent, child pornography and all sorts of other things that are on the Internet and are extremely difficult to stop. What the organizations involved in this are saying is that if you're going to slow down these divisions, you have to do it early. Otherwise, it's gonna be pretty much impossible. Then it is simply spread like a steppe brand, and it is downloaded to other devices, re-uploaded in countless contexts. In other words, the victims are really, really weak, and these are the ones that I have been primarily concerned with covering up with this proposal. Then it is clear that other things have also been chosen which are clearly punishable and which, in fact, should not be allowed to remain online when they exceed the law. That is why our idea was that a time limit should be set and we had deliberately not written in how long it should be, because we thought it was more important to get support for the proposal than to have a discussion about how short or how long it should be. We think it is important to give victims an opportunity to curb the damage, to ensure that it does not continue, that it should not leave digital tracks to marrate them for a lifetime. There is no doubt that we in the SF have been very concerned about the German model, which, of course, requires to remove things within 24 hours. I know that there has been criticism of the German model, because the idea is whether it creates the basis for censorship. In fact, there is no indication of this, and exactly in the Freedom of Freedom Commission, they have actually examined the situation with regard to the German model. What they are saying is that there are practically no problems with it. It is the case that in Germany this model is now being developed, and it has the backing of the German Court of Justice, and a unit is being set up with the criminal police, which takes care of these things. Then I just have to say that, for example. sharing images without consent with sexual content, abuse against children, hubcore, etc. is not freedom of expression. It is criminalised in the criminal code and for good reason, and therefore I do not think it can be an interference in freedom of expression or in violation of the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights to remove that content. In fact, I believe that social media should be obliged to comply with the criminal law in Denmark. They must remove the illegal so that they do not contribute to the spread of a crime. There are also some, at least in the public debate, who have said that they think that there is a mix of executive and judicial power when social media have to sit and choose out. I don't know if I'm so worried. I mean, they won't be able to impose a penalty with this proposal, like a judge, for example. Do. They will not be able to use force like the police. However, I am ready to discuss it, and should anyone want to make a report afterwards, I just think the most important thing is to give victims a right, so that a request to delete the illegal is acted quickly. I think the education for the Freedom of Freedom Commission has been far too lax in this area. They're proposing better law enforcement as a solution to this. Yeah, hello man ax handle, that's the best way to make sure there's never gonna be a honk with this area. We do not have effective law enforcement today, nor will we get it tomorrow with the exorbitant number of cases that we have in the hands of the police and the prosecutor. This is and remains a low priority, and I do not have the slightest confidence that things will improve in the future. Meanwhile, the victims are waiting for justice, as their images spread all over the world and stand as a memorial forever, for which employers, new lovers or acquaintances can search, and their names come out. Time is and remains a very important factor in these cases. It has major psychological consequences for the victim, it complicates police investigations and it complicates the digital clean-up work. That is why I think we must act, but I am well aware that there will probably not be much happening before the Minister's committee holds out, and I just hope that we will be able to move in this direction. Enhedslisten asked for redress on Facebook and NemID validation. Well, we can decide what such a right of appeal should look like. One could imagine that a board that we are putting together will have to deal with these matters. And NemID validation can be done without the information as such becoming available, but it must at least ensure that the complaints are not unfounded. Because I could imagine that someone might want to harass each other with this, and I think that if you're NemID validating, the risk might be lower. I am ready to discuss it with the Enhedslisten or with whoever wants to, how we can put it together here, but I simply do not believe that we can leave this alone to the police and the courts. It takes more to secure the victims in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512160342	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512160413	The debate is open. The first speaker is the Minister of Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512160420	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking New Citizens for having tabled the motion for a resolution. After all, it is no more than four months since we in the Danish Parliament last debated the issue of amending the Public Access Act and, as I said in this connection, the debate on the Public Access Act is important, and I am always happy to take part in that debate. As I also said at the time, openness in public administration is a key principle of our democratic society. That is why the principle of openness is also a cornerstone of the public law that we already have. But that is not the only consideration that the rules take. In fact, I think all the parties in this House agree on that. Indeed, the agreement on the new Public Procurement Act in 2013 attempted to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the need for transparency, as an important principle of a democratic society, and, on the other hand, the need to safeguard the confidential space necessary for a minister to be able to exercise the political direction of his ministerial area. It is in fact the two considerations that are involved, and that is the balance that needs to be struck. A case often has several sides, and good advice therefore contains both arguments for and against a given solution. It is important for the quality of the decisions taken by a minister that the Minister has the opportunity to hear the arguments that advocate the good solution and against the good solution ^ or at least against the solution. The protection of the confidentiality of the political decision-making processes of the government and the Minister is not invented by the public law in force. Already with the previous Public Act, the internal and political decision-making process was a protectionable consideration. The increased digitisation, together with increased cooperation between ministries and the involvement of underlying authorities, has created a need for inter alia: a separate ministerial service rule. In brief, the ministerial service rule states that the right of access does not include internal documents exchanged between the department of a ministry and its underlying authorities or between different ministries, at a time when a minister may be expected to have or need advice and assistance from its officials. However, the right of access still applies to all information on the facts of the case contained in these documents and information on external and certain internal final professional assessments. If we did not have the ministerial service rule, we would risk having a management structure with some very, very broad departments so that ministerial service documents could continue to be kept internally, or we would risk the authorities failing to cooperate to the same extent with less ministerial service and worse policy development. The argument is not that there would be a disaster immediately after access was granted instead of using the ministerial service rule. Rather, the confidential space between ministers and officials would be undermined. And it is my belief that, without the ministerial service rule, the basis on which the Minister and the government have to make their decisions would be worse. In its report, which was delivered on 30 April, the Commission on Freedom of expression has, among other things, adopted a number of amendments. recommended that the Public Procurement Act be revised in order to provide greater access to factual information. As I have said, there is already access to information on the actual basis of a case under the current Public Procurement Act. The right of access to that information must ensure that the public can have an insight into the basis on which the decision is taken. The government's position remains that the public law as it stands today has a fair balance, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution. Moreover, as I indicated during the debate earlier this year, I do not believe that public confidence in the work of the administration depends solely on the public law. I believe, on the other hand, that this depends on many different factors. Perhaps the most important thing in reality is that we politicians become better at being honest about what kind of motives drive us. I believe that some of the crisis of confidence that is being talked about is due to the fact that we sometimes get the message oversold politically or do not be honest and do not make the necessary expectation vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512160915	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512160922	Thank you. There have recently been a number of articles on whether it was the government or the health authorities which, like the ones that laid the foundations for the decisions we are taking at the moment. In other words, is the office being politicised, or is it a purely official work that brings professional judgements, for which political decisions are then made on behalf? I can only imagine that one must feel as a government that it is an unpleasant situation to stand in, as long as one wishes to have clear lines of business that the official work is the professional one, and that one then stands at the goal of the political decisions taken on the basis of the professional information one gets. That is why I am also surprised that the Social Democrats and the government do not have a greater desire to clarify precisely what are the professional decisions and what are the political decisions. Here, of course, by removing the ministerial service rule, we have an opportunity to give the Danes and journalists an insight into who makes the decisions and what advice goes which way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161039	However, the consideration that the government can make preliminary, preliminary considerations in confidence is important. It is the case when it comes to preparing matters, and it is also the case in all of our parties, that we discuss things back and forth, that we have different considerations, that we reject something, arguments, positions, etc., and that we agree with something else. And those considerations need to be protected by confidentiality, otherwise you would risk not doing so. That is to say, in this situation, the decisions taken would be at risk of simply having a lower quality. It is also the case that in saying that there is something that is the function of officials, and something else that is the political function, the grey area that is where the officials enter the political space to some extent, as politicians sometimes enter the offices of officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161139	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161141	Thank you for your answer, but it is the case that in real life, when you have a business or are in a job, you make a lot of decisions that are balanced on the basis of some professional considerations. And I think most Danes know about this because you ask, not because you're stupid, but because you want to get smarter. That is why I believe that it would be very healthy for the people's regime to recognise, as a government, as a minister and as a power party, that guidance is needed and that decisions are made on the basis of professional recommendations and therefore also to lay out to the public what the professional recommendations are and what the political issues/decisions are. Can't the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161227	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161229	I think that if you took hold of such ordinary Danish companies as was mentioned, many of them would say that for various reasons they do not want everyone to have an insight into what arguments and parameters are behind the decisions they make. I think, in fact, that, just as we politically need to be able to have these considerations, the same thing is true on the other side of the walls here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161300	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161305	After all, the Minister of Justice belongs to a party with a very long tradition of government responsibility. And one might add the comment that the Minister personally belongs to a family with a long experience of having ministerial responsibility on it. Therefore, when the Minister says that this would make it more difficult to be a minister, it cannot be asked: was it all the more difficult to be a minister before we were given the provision we now have in Article 24 of the Public Service Act? It's not that long ago. Well, I'd almost think that when there's a family reunion in the Hækkerup family, you'd be able to sit around and discuss one before and one after. I just want to ask, is it really that bad? What are some things that have made it almost impossible, in the time before the Minister became minister, to lead Denmark safely through rebellious waters? Because there have been quite a lot of people before the Minister became a minister, so can we know what kind of incidents the Minister can remember?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161409	I would say that it would also, I think, have very unfortunate consequences if there were full access to all the debates we have at family reunions. I am quite sure that could have fatal consequences at many different levels. But joking aside in reality, the questioner is getting to touch some of the things that may be a bit of central here, speaking about telling the truth, etc. It is as if there is a tendency for the closer one gets to power and government offices, the stronger the look will be for such rules on ministerial service and so on. is reasonable, good and relevant. And if that's true, then this is, in addition to the ideal, a simple political struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161507	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161508	I have to say that I am deeply impressed by all the concessions made by the Minister for Justice in both the previous and the current debate, because I would like to express my complete agreement. This is a comfort clause. For those parties for which it is part of the natural to either be inside or right in front of the ministry, it is convenient that there are some things that you do not need to share with the public. For the rest of us, who can only look at the parnasse from afar, it seems strange that the public should not be allowed access. But the Minister is creeping around: why was it harder to be a minister before Paragraph 24 was introduced than it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161548	It's not for convenience. It is simply a question of a government, a minister, having so that it is not convenience. I can only say that when I look beyond the Chamber and think about which parties are here and my party has not moved in this matter, the closer you are to power, the stronger the view is that this type of rule is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161625	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161630	Thank you. The Minister's point of view in this matter is well known; there was no surprise in the opening speech, but I would nevertheless like to ask what the Minister said about the importance of not making any changes of this nature in the Public Service Act, because it is important that the government can make a number of different considerations before doing anything. It sounds wise to think differently and not to lock yourself to a given point of view and then insist that it should be at all costs. So I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister believes that it increases confidence in politicians and the government or it weakens confidence in politicians and the government, that the public gets a little more insight into the fact that politics is not always so easy and that there are different options that the government chooses from, so that they can see that it is not always so easy to be a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161729	I simply do not think that I said quite briefly in my speech that the questioner that if we simply abolish the Public Service Act, confidence in politicians in general would explode will hold. I believe that confidence in us as politicians is on some quite different things, for example. the way we treat each other and the way we debate, in other words, to a large extent whether we are responsive to what others say, is it not? After all, we have a way of debating where, at least somewhere along the way, you react quite differently than if you were sitting with people with whom you had a normal conversation. Well, there's a tendency to camp on top of a stand and then stay there and advocate it no matter what. I really believe that the opportunity to have the open dialogue is better, and I feel a bit that the politicians whom I appreciate most here in Christiansborg are those who also dare to put aside the parties and throw themselves into reflected reflections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161839	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161841	After all, it is not just me or some from other political parties who say that it will create confidence and transparency if we make the various amendments to the public law here. GRECO, the anti-corruption unit of the European Union, pointed out last year that the changes that have been made are not so good and, most recently, we have seen the Freedom of expression commission recommend that we now need to revise the law on public access to documents. What impression does the Minister have on the fact that there is not only political pressure but also pressure from all sorts of other places, so that it is almost only the minister's own party and another party in here who, as the only ones, will not do anything about the public law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512161922	It is, of course, very funny what arguments are being raised rather than supporting your case. If we now look at the recommendations of the Commission on Freedom of expression, the recommendations to amend the Public Service Act, are there any of the members of the Commission that could have been thought of earlier about the Public Service Act? Yes, there is. Can it be imagined that some of them have taken the view that they have also ended up taking now? Yeah, there is. If you go through that, you will find that there is no surprise in the fact that the Freedom of expression commission says what they do, because it follows what individual Members have said in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162005	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, and that is how the rapporteur begins. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162029	Thank you for the floor. I think this is the third time since the last parliamentary elections that we have had this debate in the Chamber. This also shows, of course, that this ministerial service debate is taking place. Well, it might seem like something stale, something dark, something creepy, but what does it really cover? This covers the fact that there are some work processes in a ministry or in other public authorities that look different than they once did. The public law that we revised six years ago was, after all, from 1987. Now I entertained in the debate we had before that I had never been firstmover when it comes to technology, but I can tell that back in 1987 the world looked significantly different than it is today. Communication routes are flowing differently, and there is much that has moved over and become digital. The decision-making processes also look different. That is why it is very natural that the way in which the legislative process is organised should, of course, also develop. There's nothing static. The forms of debate we have in the Folketing also change, etc. Of course, it is also very natural that there should be openness, transparency and access to control over those in power. It is, of course, one of the cornerstones of our democracy, and it is one of the things we celebrate in Danish democracy. That is why, of course, there must also be an opportunity to seek access to documents. But it is clear that it is a balance in relation to the fact that, of course, there must also be some work processes that can work. I have now discussed this issue sometimes, including with journalists, and then I ask them: do you mean that there should be no restrictions at all? As a journalist and as a citizen, we must be able to have full access to all the work that, for example, has to be done. Is inside a ministry? In fact, I have not met anyone who thinks that we should just have full access, that there should be nothing that should not have access to. This will mean that every document, every single e-mail, every single telephone note, etc. will be dealt with. should sit very, very accurately and consider how it could be interpreted if anyone should have access to documents. That is the reality when you sit as an official and work in a ministry or on a board, as I have done. There you communicate across the board, and motions for resolutions are developed. And if it was the case that you wanted to take fragments of it, it could be quickly interpreted to one side or the other, and where was the disagreement, etc. etc.? There must, of course, be a consideration of the work processes, while, of course, there must be a consideration of being able to control those in power. That is the balance expressed in the public law that we have back from 1987 and is reflected in the one that was revised six years ago because the world had evolved. Of course, the minister service rule is also about some processes that have also changed, not least the possibility of accessing documents that are also digital. In the run-up to the elections, there was a great deal of work in the then conciliation circle to see whether some of these provisions could be revised. As I know, it was also agreed to do so, but at the end of the day it was not possible to agree whether it went far enough. A lot of work was put into it. That is why we have also indicated in the past that we do not intend to reopen the whole process, but recognise that a great deal of work was put into it and that there could not be a majority. That is why we have no intention of opening up a new round, and that is why we do not support this resolution either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162430	Thank you. As the Minister pointed out earlier, Mr. Jeppe Bruus is also saying that this is not the first time we have this case in this context. It is not, probably for that reason, that at the moment. Only two parties are holding hands under the Public Service Act and, incidentally, a number of other parties seem to have gone too far in this law. Social democracy has the power of government, which is why I am not surprised that it protects the government's ability to keep its cards close to the body, but social democracy is also a party that prides itself on being a working party, a party for the people, a party for the man on the floor. Is it not for the man on the floor out there, at work, around society, all those people who are not concerned with power but who are concerned with their rights to give a better insight into what is going on when governments and politicians in the government exchange information? What's going on? Who's the ruler? Are those the rulers? Is that the politicians? Or is it a lovely mix?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162543	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162544	I now take part in the committee's work here in Parliament. I think that is a great pleasure both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Transport, where I am chairman. I note that when there is a camera on, we have one type of debate. When the cameras are off, we have another type of debate. In the second type of debate we can actually discuss views, we can bend towards each other, and the willingness to do so is considerably less when there is a camera on it. That is why it has to be said that there can be spaces where there does not necessarily have to be a camera because you can exchange views. Whether you do it inside a ministry or want to do it in a parliamentary committee, I actually think it is beneficial for our democracy that there is the room for us to bend to each other, and if that is how we have cameras hanging over us all the time, then that propensity will be based just on my short parliamentary experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162632	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162634	But the big difference between the government and the Folketing is that we in the Folketing are here and represent the population widely. You don't do that in the government. So when decisions are made and kept secret from the Danish parliament in the government, kept secret from the Danes, because journalists have no opportunity to gain insight into what is going on, then it is something quite, quite different from when the Folketing in committees and other places has the opportunity to find out behind closed doors how we can reach each other. There is, of course, a huge difference between whether it is the Folketing and thus the people's government, or whether it is the government and the governments who make these decisions and who sit and hold the cards close to the body.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162715	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162718	1: Hopefully, the government represents the people. I guess you didn't have a government if there was a majority in the Folketing against it. 2: The suspicion that if there is a room where not all parties are involved, then there is probably something that is dark and wrong, I do not share. There is also plenty of work where you sit and negotiate in rooms where not all parties are present. We may well think that that is wrong, and it is certainly preferable for everyone to have the opportunity to participate, but sometimes the waters are also shared, which means that there are, of course, discussions where we are not all sitting there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162752	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162755	The problem is not the meetings where we sit and negotiate and where all the parties of the Folketing are represented. After all, the problem is the preparatory meetings where information and other things can be exchanged that do not tolerate journalists' inquisitoric looks. And I don't know if sir... Jeppe Bruus is familiar with it, but journalists Lars Rugaard and Erik Valeur wrote a book a few years ago, where one very carefully reviewed some of the such, what can be said, major stories that over the last ten years have affected ministers who could not have written if the current section 24 had been there. And these are stories about how a minister gave incorrect information about the number of disabled people, the question of how the Labour Market Authority corrected in reports, and the whole background to what we know as the Tunisian Act. I just find it very difficult to understand how one, the power party or not the power party, can defend a provision which, in these areas, would have prevented the public from knowing about illegal activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162900	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162901	Well, if you think that there should be no restriction at all that there should be full access to all documents, to all phone notes and to all text messages at all times I understand the starting point. But if that is not the starting point, and if you recognise that there is some communication that may actually be internal and in process before it lays the foundations for a minister's decision-making, then the question is what that balance should look like. That was, in fact, the basis of the Public Service Act. That was the basis for the review that was being carried out, and that was the basis for the discussions that took place in the conciliation group before the elections, where we could not then agree to revise these provisions that we are talking about today. It is always a balance and, of course, when there is such a balance, there can always be for or against. However, I think it makes sense that there are some spaces where you can actually work in process as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512162959	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163001	This provision is not one that goes back to the constitution. Well, it's actually quite a new provision. Twenty years or something like that, it's on the back. And I don't suppose that Mr. Jeppe Bruus will argue that everything was completely free before the provision was introduced, that is, that an official could not speak to his minister without it immediately going on the front page of the Ekstrabladet, and what do I know? It wasn't like that. That is why I would just like to ask why today there is such an urgent need for the two power parties to be able to censor more than previously, because that is what we now know from the Minister of Justice. What justifies the fact that these stories, which could not have come out with the current provision, must not come out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163047	It becomes a bit counter-productive, but that is to say, the tightening up of the ministerial service rule, Paragraph 24, was about the fact that the right of access does not include internal documents and information at a time when there are concrete grounds for believing that a minister has or will need the advice and assistance of the official body between the Department of the Ministry and its subordinate authorities or between different ministries. It is basically about the fact that there are some documents running in process. I myself have tried to be a part of it when I was employed as an official, 21⁄2 years before I was elected to the Folketing, and can say without revealing too much that there are then plenty of such things where comments come across and cross, and if you had to put it out and some got fragments of it, it could end up looking very strange. If it were not the case that you could have that work process, then it would all be much more futile.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163133	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163148	Thank you. In addition to the motion for a resolution, I have included the report on public access to documents. It has no. 1510, and it's here in two volumes, so I can look up along the way if there's anything I need to look for answers to. No, that's not why I put it on the platform. It is more to say that one sometimes gets the impression that this public law, which critics go around calling the blackout law, is something that has come about in such a creepy basement room, where some power parties have put themselves together and considered how to hide all their foxes from the public. So that is not the case, and perhaps the picture that is being tried will help to promote a politician's leadership. It was a matter of having a law that had a few years on the back. It was from 1987 and relatively new when I began to study law, but the tooth of the time had mined the law, as in so many others, and therefore a Public Service Commission was set up in which all sorts of wise people crossed the line, journalists, media researchers and wise lawyers with former Ombudsman Hans Gammeltoft-Hansen sat down and wrote a report which went in and looked at whether there was anything in the old Public Service Act that time had caught up with. And yes, there was. One of these was the fact that there was more cooperation across ministries and that ministries also cooperated more closely on political development with governments. Governments had been given a different function than they had in 1987, and there had also been more of them, and ministries spoke to a greater extent across each other, and it was therefore considered that Article 10 and Article 7 of the old Public Service Act were too narrow because they focused solely on the individual department itself, i.e. as in a municipality. A municipality is a unitary administration and everything that cycles through different departments of the municipality is exempt from public access to documents. But it wasn't like that in a government. If something went from one ministry to another, it was suddenly an external document to which access could be sought, and it was found by the Public Service Commission to be extremely inappropriate, and I agree with that. We can read here in the comments on the proposal from the New Citizens' Party that a large number of practically important types of documents can, as a starting point, be exempted from access to documents, even if they are exchanged between different authorities, and then, as an example, press releases are mentioned. In other words, it is very strange to deny journalists access to a press release, because they must send it out, so that someone can be aware of what they have of their views. So what I believe is a draft press release, just as the proposal also mentions draft speaking papers and draft answers to parliamentary questions, and I have to say that it has never been the case under any public law that one could see which drafts had been changed, where red lines had been set and where commas had been set. One has never had the right, but I think that many journalists would love it, not least Henrik Qvortrup and Hans Engell and such ones, who could then sit and motif research into why that sentence has been changed, and why you wrote it instead of there. They would love it, but it would not make much sense that it was not possible to wait until there was a final document; it must of course be so. So I think that much of the justification for the proposal is based on misunderstandings as to what the legal situation was under the old public law. Under the old Public Act, we had Section 10, which kept a number of documents outside of access to documents, and then we also had Section 7, which said that internal working documents in a ministry were, as a starting point, outside of access to documents. With regard to the public law that we now have, although it has been created on the basis of a Commission with a lot of clever people who have written thousands of pages about how the new public law should be tightened up, and although we had a long and thorough debate and so on, the question is whether we have precisely found the right cut in terms of what should be public access to and what should not be access to. I think we can discuss this, but to remove the ministerial service rule completely without putting anything instead would make written work impossible in any ministry, and I do not think that is in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163644	Thank you. Last week, the Left was the author of a so-called manifesto of openness. So we wanted more openness about what was going on in connection with what should be said, what we are getting from the government about the negotiations in connection with the reopening after the corona closure. This manifesto of openness was specifically directed at the current government. One felt that one was left out a little, and one felt that one did not have a complete insight into what government policy is and what governments are saying. In other words, one has been struck by the fact that there is something one could only gain insight into if one had had access to documents and if journalists had had the opportunity to look into the papers. You've been hit by that yourself. So last week, this manifesto of openness was wanted. This is obviously not what we want today when it comes to the general aspect of the blackout law and the rule of ministerial service. And when you do not want it, it is of course because you are in danger of sitting in government and being affected by the same thing. Isn't that a little hypocritical and double moral?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163757	Now we do not consider it a risk to get into government. That is a great wish for us, and that is why it is certainly not a risk. This is an opportunity that we hope will be fulfilled, rather tomorrow than the day after tomorrow. I probably had the feeling that the manifesto of openness would come out in the debate, which is why I also had it printed. But just for the record: there is nothing in the current Public Act that prevents the government from behaving properly and sharing a basis for decision with the other parties in the Parliament. I mean, there is a more public provision that the government can simply choose to make use of. So the manifesto of openness and the law of publicity are not in conflict with each other. I also think I have been quoted in several places to say that the principle of public access to documents is not something that has really gained ground in the ministries. I am disappointed about this and how we might look at the principle of public access to documents is something we should have a discussion on. But that is not what is being proposed in this motion for a resolution. It is intended to simply remove the ministerial service rule, paragraph 24, and that does not make much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163909	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163911	Well, I still think it smells a lot of hypocrisy. It is not, therefore, many hours since the rapporteur's party chairman stood out here in front of the overall press and talked about the problem of not being able to understand when the health authorities have decided on this distance from 2 m to 1 m and whether it is the health authorities who have made the decision on Sunday without the government knowing it or whether the government has actually known that this was coming when we were negotiating last week. So the Left has been standing a short time ago with the full press and has problematized this and has problematized that one could not get an insight into it, while at the same time it is now said that because one day the Left risks sitting in power itself, this rule should not be changed. It's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512163955	It's still gone no risk, but a golden opportunity. I believe that, as a politician in parliament, we sometimes forget that we also have many other means of power. So, in relation to the thing about saying that the government is not doing anything illegal, because they must do so well in relation to the Public Service Act, one could also ask oneself the question: do I have confidence in a minister who does not want to share a very central decision-making basis with me? And it is clear that this question is of course most relevant to ask if you belong to one of the government's supporting parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164028	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164032	I think it's nice to get in place that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen does not regard it as a risk with the Left in government. However, it cannot be ruled out that there are others who have that view. And it can be said that it will probably be more widespread when you listen to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's attempt to defend this provision. Because it is easy to say that the defence of section 24 is that it would be chaos if it did not exist at all. But that's not what we're talking about, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. What we are talking about is: what would the ministerial service look like if we had maintained the situation that existed before the last amendment to the provision? And I can't understand there unless Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, of course, agrees with the total sincerity which, incidentally, is admirable from the Minister for Justice that this is about protecting power, when you have the opportunity to get it that a liberal party does not see that it is a problem, that in relation to some of the huge political cases that have been about ministers who have neglected their office, the journalists who have dug them up recently say that they could not have been uncovered with the current design of § 24. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen doesn't see that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164142	That's what we're discussing, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. We are discussing the abolition of the ministerial service rule. So, it says: "The Parliament instructs the government by the end of 2020 to work for significantly more openness on the part of the authorities by submitting legislative proposals to repeal the ministerial service rule in the Public Service Act. Get it off! Get it off! Get it off! That is what we are discussing. And that doesn't make much sense. Whether or not we can discuss a different form of the ministerial service rule, so that some of the matters which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt emphasizes, could be presented in a different light, I have not at any time rejected. But there is a settlement between the Social Democrats and the Left, so that means that this is something we are discussing in the conciliation circle. And it is a pity, I think, that so many people have resigned from that conciliation. Because then you're outside, and then you don't have much influence. I think that's really a shame, but it's not a viable way to say that now we're just removing section 24.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164243	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164244	Now you have to choose with great care what kind of companies you become a part of. And I'd like to say that that club, like mr. Jan E. Jørgensen here mentions, I'm glad not to be a part of. But in relation to section 24: Should I understand it that way, and I think that's what we're all talking about, whether or not there are some procurator relationships that need to be changed here, and that's where Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has a sharp look at the fact that what we are talking about is to return to section 24's form before the latest revision of the Public Service Act? Can we then count on the support of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164318	No, we cannot, because it has been said by the Public Service Commission that it was out of date; it did not take account of the way in which we are working today. Let me give just one example: The Danish Business and Company Administration was previously part of the Department of Industry. So then there was no access to public access because it was internal in the department. Because it was then separated into an independent board, there is suddenly access to accurate and exactly the same documents. That's inappropriate. Let us, for example: say that a government set itself up with one large department called the government. Then there was no access to anything. Well, that doesn't make much sense. The idea must be that it is the document and the nature of the document that decide whether or not to have access to documents and not whether it has been sent between two ministers or between a minister and the Minister's own departmental manager. That must be what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164414	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164417	Thank you. I would like to commend and acknowledge the good cooperation that we had with the Left last week about this manifesto of openness, where we got the point about the importance of openness. After all, it follows very well with the comments that the Left has made over recent months about openness, not only during the Corona crisis, but also in the past. I found an article in Berlingske from 27 December 2020, where the Left's finance rapporteur under the heading "Left now requires calculations behind climate law to be presented" says: "The calculations are there now, so I don't understand why they need to be concealed and kept secret. This is something that, as it were, is happening again, both with the agreement we made last week on the transparency document and what the President of the Left could say today about the figures at 1 m's distance, namely that one would like to have more openness. And it is true that the current law does not prevent more openness, but it may not impose more transparency on anyone either. So will the Left be willing to extend the manifesto of openness so that we really commit ourselves to more openness?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164522	Well, let me repeat what I said before. When I count the parties that stand down here, there are, in fact, more than 90 seats. So, if there was such a willingness to do something seriously about the lack of openness of the government, one could say to the minister concerned: if you, Minister, do not present these figures and these calculations to us, we do not trust you as minister anymore. As you know, no minister can be a minister unless he has the confidence of the majority of the Folketing. This could only be done; there are plenty of possibilities for how to get a government to move and move in accordance with the majority of the Folketing. But that requires the courage to do so, and what is being proposed here in the resolution is certainly not the way forward. However, please show some courage and tell the Minister for Health that we are demanding these things, otherwise the Minister for Health is no longer Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164622	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164624	I am not so concerned about overthrowing ministers; I am actually more concerned about action, so that we create more openness, as we could do if the Left wanted to. If the Left wants to extend the manifesto of openness that we adopted last week, it could be with a 9th point where it says that we are now changing the public law so that we are committed to more openness. Then all the other parliamentary talk about who sits in the cars and all that is not what is crucial; what is crucial is more openness. So why will the Left not help us to have the openness that I can hear the Left asking for at the moment, day after day, by introducing a 9th point in the manifesto of openness, which could be called a revision of the Public Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164706	I am also not interested in overthrowing ministers I am interested in ministers doing what a majority of the people think they should do. So it should be a very strange minister who said: I would rather die in my nest and resign as a minister than to hand over some figures to the Folketing which they think are very, very important. That is the means of power we have, and that does not mean that the Minister will resign. And by the way, don't be silly about who's sitting in some cars. These are important things we're talking about. So if the Radical Left were to take the words seriously, one could only threaten the Minister with a motion of censure if one did not get the information one wanted. I guess we shouldn't wait too long until that information came out in the light of day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164752	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164755	Thank you. I would like to try to be a little more wiser on the Left's thoughts when we do not want to support this proposal, because I believe that both the rapporteur and I can agree that we, I almost said, may not have the most closed government in man's memory, because I believe that the government under President Estrup was more closed, but at least in the memory of the newer man we have a very, very closed government. I actually think we agree on this, and it is of course problematic that the public law also makes it more difficult for the press to act critically against a government which is already very closed and has a very strict management of the media, parliament and the like. I understand that the public law is still being defended because one thinks that the next time the Left joins the government, one will also be protected in the same way. But that is only true if the Left and the Social Democrats have 90 seats after the next elections. You're the only two parties left to defend this. So does the rapporteur not see that when the Left comes to power next time, the public law will be removed? And yet you're holding hands over an S-government in this area. Well, what are the considerations behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512164903	Now we are still counting on the number of seats and not on the number of parties. In other words, it is not the case that because there are 20 parties with four mandates each, it is suddenly extremely interesting. So that is not the case; it must be the mandates that count. This is not about protecting social democracy. I have no desire whatsoever to protect the Social Democratic Party. It is a question of a government being given the opportunity to govern, and it may well be that the fact that you yourself have been in government makes you understand the importance of being able to act as a government. I just have to say that it is therefore also important that we have a government that has the opportunity to govern, even though it is the Social Democracy that sits there, because it has an independent meaning for our country that we have a government that can govern. Then we have a Parliament, which has some means of power, and if the Folketing is dissatisfied with the government or a single minister, you have the opportunity to threaten the Minister with a motion of censure, and there I would like there to be some parties that might not only support them in everything, but at times rattled with the sabre that the founding fathers have provided us with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165009	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165011	It may well be that we are about to overthrow some ministers; I will then consider that. Just to make it absolutely clear: I am absolutely convinced that the next time the Left will have the power of government, S and V will probably not have 90 mandates, and then the Public Service Act will not protect the Left in a government. I know you guys have a different attitude, but this is, after all, a pretty unique situation. I do not understand why we continue to defend the public law when it may not benefit the Left in the longer term just to talk about things as they are. However, is it really the view of the Left that the public law is really, really good and that it is something that serves democracy, and is that why you are fighting wholeheartedly with the Social Democrats in order, for example, not to implement the New Citizens' motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165054	In other words, right now it seems that social democracy alone has 90 seats if you read opinion polls. I hope that doesn't manifest, but that's not what's so interesting. What is interesting to me is to ensure that we have a proper public law. And the public law that we have today is one that has come into being on the basis of a Commission work which has produced this huge report.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I fully agree that this matter is not very good in public, because so much is said and written very commonly wrong about the public law, including, unfortunately, I have to say, some of the grounds on which the motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165145	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165149	Thank you very much. If there wasn't this review, that is the last version of the cover-up law, would it be necessary at all to have the manifesto of openness that the Left got through here the other day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165211	Just calling it the cover-up law is such an extra leaf plat, which makes having a proper discussion about things difficult. I haven't been inside, sir. Torsten Gejl has been looking at how it would have been with the old Public Act in relation to the information we would like to have with this manifesto of openness. It could actually be very interesting. I do not think that there would be any difference at all, most of it being done in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, and under the old public law internal working documents within a ministry were all exempted from public access to documents. So I'm not sure there would have been any big difference. However, as I have said before, and as I say again, nothing in the Public Service Act prevents the government from behaving properly and treating its contractual partners properly and sharing vital information with them in these serious times. There is nothing in the Public Service Act that prevents the government from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165314	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165315	No, but the cover-up law means that we will have to make transparency manifests time and time again or in some other way go by ministers, and perhaps even, as the rapporteur proposes, start to find a majority against them. After all, this is a lot of trouble, and it is a lot of work that needs to be done in order to have transparency. It would be much easier to relax this cover-up law. However, if it is the case that the rapporteur would like to take part in looking at how we could change this and what points can be clarified, how would the rapporteur suggest that we could start by clarifying it and making it more accessible and more public?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165353	It is much, much easier to sit down and formulate an e-mail to the Minister for Health and the elderly and write: Dear Magnus, if we do not get it and that, there is a motion of censure for you on Tuesday. It doesn't take much imagination to sit down and write it. You can do that. But we do not have the courage to do so by the government's support parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165418	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thus the next rapporteur is on the platform from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165430	Thank you, President. It's a unique procurator knife, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen here is trying to expose this House to the fact that a majority in the Folketing can simply overthrow a minister who will not give information to the relevant majority in the Folketing. For typically, in this situation, a majority of the Folketing will be completely conversant with the Minister and therefore fully agree with what information should be shared either with the public or only in a narrow circle, and therefore they will have a similar interest with the Minister in whether the Minister's career should be long or short. That's not what the Public Service Act is about, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. After all, it is not a matter of ministers serving members of parliament. The Publicity Act is about the public. It is about people outside the political system, outside the ministerial offices, outside the parliamentary offices, having an opportunity to gain insight into how power is exercised. That is what the matter is about, and that is where the change that was made, most recently by what is called section 24, is a huge step backwards, and that is why we want it rolled back. It is not that I get soft on my knees in this way when I see a Socialist, but I must congratulate the Minister for Justice on his frankness when he says that this is about power. It's about the closer you get to power, the more you want to hold on to it, and it's just easier to hold on to power if you don't have to share information with anyone other than the ones you have it with. That's it. That's it. That's it. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen covers himself behind all these procurator knapsacks. He could've just said it as simple as that. There is, moreover, an uplifting consequence of this, because if it means that those who support this law are the parties of power, then I have to say that there is at least the good news that the Radical Left is no longer a party of power and something more uplifting for the future of the country I cannot imagine. This does not alter the fact that this is a disgrace to the rule of law, and that is also why one of the few things that the Commission on Freedom of expression could actually agree on recently was to recommend a change to the Public Service Act. It is also one of the places where the former Ombudsman Mr. Jørgen Steen Sørensen concluded that things should be changed. This was one of the areas where the Royal Conservative People's Party, when they joined the government a few years ago, wanted to change things. But then you got a little too close to the parnas where the current Minister of Justice is sitting today. You became a party of power, and then it went out. That's the problem, of course, because this whole structure Parliament has, of course, according to Section 3, the task of legislating with the majesty, but as something far more important to control the government. And there is cooperation with what we so popularly call the fourth state power, the press, of course, absolutely crucial. But this law, whether you call it one or the other, is especially amputating the power of the fourth state to control. That's why it's so interesting when you read the book "Minist Service - A Journalist White Paper on the Public Service Act," which was written by journalists Mr. Lars Rugaard and Erik Valeur, who have described the situation with some of the major cases at the end of the 00s, which were uprooted by the press, and have in parallel described how the possibilities of obtaining that information would have been, if things had happened, after the current section 24 had been adopted. We are talking, as has been said, about a case in which the Minister of Social Affairs gave incorrect information about the number of disabled people and personal assistants. We are talking about a case in which the Labour Market Authority corrected its own reports. We are talking about uncovering what we know today as the Tunisian Act. So it is not cases in which I necessarily have a political share in the fact that things are going to go wrong, but where we should all, as elected representatives and as Parliament, have an interest in the fact that there are some who control the rulers. That's what makes this provision a disgrace. If the rulers begin to cover themselves behind the power so that even they can no longer be controlled, there will be imbalance in the division of power. That is probably why there are more and more parties who can see that this provision should be changed not because we do not want power, but because we do not do it at all costs. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165857	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments. First, to sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512165905	Thank you. I just need to know if this really surprises Mr. Kim. Morten Messerschmidt, that politics is about having power, because it was as if it were such a completely new realization, and the fact that the Minister of Justice had acknowledged that it was about power, was: Stop it! Yeah, of course it's about power, what else would it be about? When we talk about the division of power, it is because it is power and there it is not a procurator knife when I ask the Folketing to take seriously the power we have in this way to say that if we feel badly treated, specifically during the corona crisis we are in right now, by a minister, then we have the opportunity to say to that minister: we do not trust you. We do not trust that the information we receive will dress up properly enough to take part in some negotiations. However, it is necessary to apply the power with which the Constitution has endowed the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170005	Yes, it is a procurator's knack, because the Public Service Act is not a law that gives Members of Parliament privileged access to information. It is a law that journalists in particular use to identify whether those in power are also exercising it according to the rules, and I have just mentioned three examples of where those in power chose not to follow the rules.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Jan E. Jørgensen as a member of a power-loving party wanted to defend, had applied at the time, the cases would not be uncovered. And I'm assuming that mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's enthusiasm for power has not reached that point, that he also conceals the abuse of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170042	Isn't the Danish People's Party greedy? That's sad. It is really sad that we are running for a parliamentary election without having a desire to gain power and thus influence the decisions taken. It's something weird that it has to be turned into something weird. It's power, isn't it? Influence may be a slightly nicer word, but it just means the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170109	What you study in your first year in law, and there I am aware that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has found himself, among other things. the division of power and how the executive, the legislature and the judiciary try to control each other, so to speak to keep each other in check, so that power does not come out of control. That is what we are talking about here. I would like to have all the power that I can convince a majority of voters to authorise me and the Danish People's Party, but I will never have power at the expense of the constitution, at the expense of the division of power, at the expense of the public, and that is clearly what separates Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and yours truly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170144	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170147	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a dazzling speech by the rapporteur. You sit here and you get excited. I am also pleased that the rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is here today. Morten Messerschmidt, points out that this is all about the public. Because it is quite possible that the parties that support a government can table a motion of censure, but journalists cannot. And I think that's an important point that suits DF and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and as others should keep in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170215	Thank you. Well, the whole point is that one can only be a minister if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that does not pronounce the distrust. However, it could be that there were 90 mandates that actually agreed to do things that are not in accordance with the authorisation now provided by the law. And then, of course, the minority in the 89 seats will be able to table as many distrust agendas as possible, but they will not be able to vote them through, because the 90 mandates have agreed to abuse power. And that's exactly where rules like the Public Act, the Administrative Act, etc. is absolutely essential for the proper functioning of a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170255	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170256	It can also be imagined that in a situation where the parliamentary basis for a government trusts the government, but subsequently, if there had not been a rule of ministerial service, that the government has actually lied to the Folketing, this would be the prerequisite or basis for distrust. We do not go around as a starting point and have distrust of each other, but if there are media, journalists and other critical voices who find out that there is something here that has been fomented or that has not been given the truth in relation to the decisions that have been made, then that is the basis for distrust. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170342	Yes, and now that the opportunity is opening, I would like to mention that I had actually decided not to mention one of the other cases that Mr. Rugaard and Mr. Valeur does mention, and which would not have been rolled out to the public, if the current section 24 had been there. It is the question of how Lars Løkke Rasmussen, then Minister for Health, paid private hospitals. And that is something, I think, that we can all have an interest in, i.e. bringing these matters forward. We're not gonna get that today. I have no reason to believe that the Minister for Justice is dishonest, on the contrary, I would say, but it is now very nice that there are rules that allow what we call the guard dog • the fourth state power to look things over in the seams as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170422	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170435	It is good to be spring, and it is brighter when we get up, but despite the fact that spring is well underway, we are still stuck in a solid round of blackouts, because the sun does not really penetrate, at least not to be able to throw its clear rays onto government documents. It seems like the blind is stuck, because nothing really happens. Nor did it under the previous government, which had otherwise entered into its government base, that the blackout curtains should be replaced with blinds so that the sun could enter, and that there should be changes to, among other things. The ministerial service rule, but nothing happened either; the blackout curtains are still there. Nothing is happening now either, and the problem is therefore that every possible loopholes are being used to exclude access to documents. All gray areas are interpreted narrowly so that the sun cannot enter. There is a need to open up, and there are many good reasons to look at changes in the public law. Last year there was a disheartening report from the anti-corruption unit of the European Union, Greco, on the Public Prosecutor's Act, and this was the first time we had massive criticism at international level of our Public Prosecutor's Act and of the exceptions that prevent public access to information. It was urged that this should be done away with. For Denmark has an interest in appearing as a country that is open, also among the most open countries that the anti-corruption unit Greco is not after. It will strengthen confidence in us as a country, it will strengthen confidence in us as politicians. As the Ombudsman pointed out in his evaluation, there are significant restrictions on access to documents, significant restrictions. Recently, the Freedom of Information Commission also recommended that the Public Service Act should be amended, and they had many good arguments for this because of the wide scope for exemption available today. So there is every reason either to adopt this motion for a resolution or to call for a debate on amending the Public Service Act, because I do not think that the Socialists and the Left will get a majority forever, so let us get started and not wait for a new majority to come. On the radical side, we are ready day and night.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170736	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170747	Thank you. I had a little problem with the technique here. I'm sorry. It sounds as if the Radical Left is ready to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party to remove the rule of ministerial service from the Public Service Act. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170804	That is correct, and it was also something that emerged from a proposal for adoption two years ago in connection with, I think, that was question No. F 9 in the session 2018-19 and Radicals asked the query. Here it appeared that the ministerial service rule had to be removed. So, when there is a party making a proposal which is also in a text previously proposed by the Radical Left, we naturally support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170828	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170829	Thank you. I assume that there are also a number of other parties on the left, and hence among the parliamentary foundations of the government, which support this today. That is certainly what has been said by those parties in the past. This brings to light the question which has also been raised in the past: can we continue to have confidence in a government which, despite the whole position of its parliamentary basis in this question, insists that there should be black papers between governments and the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170908	I am sorry, then, that there is no majority in the Folketing to change it, and I pointed that out in my speech. And the Radical Left will work hard to ensure that there are no two parties of power who can just continue not to change the public law. So we're ready day and night to change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170926	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170930	I now heard Mrs Pernille Vermund's question a little differently. I heard that she asked whether the Radical Left had confidence in a minister who would not produce documents that were at the heart of, among others, the situation. The Radical Left. And there's a majority. There's a large, massive majority. I get it. Just let me know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512170955	I do not really understand this approach: now we have to overthrow a minister in order to change the Public Service Act. I am more concerned that we will have the public law changed, and we can do that. Then we don't need all that parliamentary talk that I think the voters are less interested in. I believe that there is the most interest in us having the Public Service Act amended, and if the Left is in on it, I will be extremely happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171017	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171019	I do not think the Radical Left rapporteur understands what I am saying. I'm not talking about knocking down a minister. I am talking about telling a minister that there is some information you want, and if you do not get that information, it has a consequence. It is not parliamentary talk; it is power policy. It is about a majority of the people manifesting themselves to a minister with whom you are unhappy. But the Radical Left will not, and that is why it is just talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171049	No, what we are talking about is when we say last week that we agree with a manifesto of openness, but when we come to the Assembly and discuss public law, where we could really extend the manifesto of openness and really speed up the expansion of this openness, we will not. That's what's talk, that's when you don't make words act. So I would strongly urge the Left to get started on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171115	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171132	Thanks to New Citizens for raising this debate on the Public Access Act and the need for openness again. It is not so long ago that SF and a few other parties have raised a question debate on the same theme, unfortunately without much success. However, I think it is a very important debate and I think it is important that we take it over and over again until we reach the goal. We are, in fact, in agreement with the new citizens on this proposal, and we can support it. After all, I had almost thought or hoped that we would reach the goal this time, after the Liberals recently said that there is an urgent need for more openness, and there they had joined up with a number of parties in which they wanted to impose full transparency on the government on all data and decisions during the corona crisis. But it turns out that the Left is in fact only in favour of openness when it benefits the Left's own wishes. When it comes to the right of citizens and journalists to look generally at the rulers in the cards, the answer is no. I think it is hypocrisy of the worst drawer, and before the Left starts shooting back with the fact that the SF has regretted its original position in the debate on the Public Access Act, I would say that yes, we helped to make the current Public Access Act. I am not proud of that, I cannot run away from it, and we will have to stand by that today. It was the price of being part of a government, and it wasn't pretty. We have taken a great many beatings for that legislation, and it has also been justified, and I think the most important thing is that we should, after all, get smarter again. It has not been so long since the Freedom of Information Commission made its recommendation that it was only a few weeks ago, and it therefore recommends that we look at the Public Service Act again. I think the Minister was out to reject this unfortunately and I think that is a pity, and that is why the Left and the Socialists are going to stick to this agreement. It is so insidious that it cannot be changed in such a way without the agreement of both parties, and so both parties will ensure that the agreement is maintained and hold on to it. I think that's too bad. But, of course, it is a very effective safeguard against changing the agreement. After all, the Ombudsman has made it very clear that there have been major reductions in transparency with the 2014 Public Procurement Act, and we do not think this is so good. We think that those in power should be able to tolerate being looked at more in the cards, and this therefore requires that citizens and journalists also have the opportunity to gain knowledge and insight into the political decision-making processes. I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that you may need some kind of confidential space, and you may also need to be able to discuss political solutions in that, but when you have finished discussing, when you have settled on a solution, it should also be possible to test the pressure, and it should be possible to check why and how you made your choices and made opt-outs in that process. It should simply be able to hold a more open debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171438	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171443	Thank you for that, and I would just like to thank the SF for supporting the motion for a resolution tabled by New Citizens to remove the ministerial service rule. But I'd like to hear something, too. Now it has been said in the past that this is how you change your attitude, depending on how close you are to power, and it is of course no secret that there are parties that have been close to power and that have then changed their attitude in this process, and we can, of course, be in a situation after the next elections where the SF comes closer to power. Will the SF maintain this position, or will the SF falter again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171515	It is our view that this public law must be amended, and it will be so, whether or not we will be part of the power next time. What may then be a little more difficult may be to agree with his government colleagues. We could see that the last time the Public Service Act was made. I think it can be said that the SF has to some extent had its arms twisted around its back, and it is not possible to force its government partners to change something that they basically disagree with. So it may well be that the Public Service Act will pass after an election if the SF comes into government. But it is still our view that we have to change it, and we promise that we will do everything we can to ensure that we also get there, even after a change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171604	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171605	I hear that every effort will be made, even after a change of government, but we will not put any ministerial posts at risk. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171615	It is, of course, the case that you cannot change anything that you do not agree with in a government. I think it was the same for the Liberal Alliance, which was also challenged by the Public Act, which had been opposed from the very beginning. But that could not be changed in a government with the Conservatives and the Left, and it would probably not be any different for the SF. But we are still going to fight for real change, and I am thinking, as it were, that the challenge is not SF. The challenge is the Social Democrats and the Left, who are sticking to current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171650	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171653	Thank you. So that means that if the Prime Minister calls Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and asks if SF would not like to join the government on the condition that one of them is. Shut up about the public law, because now you don't want to hear any more about it, so SF says: Of course, of course, we want to be in government? That is a little the way I hear it, and frankly I do not think that is very principled and so on. Then we can stand a few years later and hear a SF rapporteur stand and say: well, it was also something worse, and we are not really proud of that, and so on. Well, power's all about wanting it. That is why I would like to ask the SF: when you cannot get through with a change in the Public Service Act, and I could also just stand up and say that we cannot, because there is the Social Democracy, and that is the way it is, and we have made a settlement, and we are binding each other and so on.; then I just choose to be honest instead... could one not get the SF's rapporteur's statement that one is in the second best thing, which could be to say to the minister who refuses to provide absolutely key information that if we do not get that information, then you are no longer a minister? Could the SF be in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171808	Yes, if it was an issue that was important to us, then it might well be that it was the advance road we chose. But I think that the basis should be in order, and we should not jump on a case-by-case basis. So, because it serves the interests of the Left, should we overthrow a minister to give the Left what the Left wants? No, I think that the Left should take and support the fact that we will have the amendments to the Public Service Act which make it possible for every party to obtain the information needed at any time in order to carry out its political work. I think that is quite reasonable. So no, I'm not going to jump from tue to tue to support the Left in random political interests. I think we should put the foundations in order, and that is what is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171848	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171850	Is that why you don't find SF as a co-signator of this manifesto of openness? Is it because it does not really mean it if it includes criticizing the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171902	I have no idea even if we have been invited to stand on the Left's manifesto of openness. Our openness goes so far that it must be regulated, and this must be done in the public law, and we want to change it. So I really just think that the Left should fuck and bite if you mean transparency seriously. Instead of making papers in the press, you should sit down at a negotiating table and make sure this is put right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171925	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512171935	Thank you. I should like to begin by expressing my great surprise, but above all to welcome the fact that today we are dealing with something as unusual as a sensible resolution from the New Citizens' Party. Thank you. There is not a word in either the proposal or in the comments that we disagree with in the Enhedslisten, so that we can give our wholehearted support to the proposal. It has not puzzled us in the Enhedslisten that the ministerial service rule became one of the major problems of the public law passed by a worryingly broad majority in this Parliament back in 2013. In the Enhedslisten we were very critical during the legislative process and asked a sea of questions where the then Minister's reply suggested that precisely the ministerial service rule and other problematic clauses of the bill would lead to a much greater secrecy in the public administration and around the political process. And all the committee questions to which the authors of this proposal refer in the comments have also been tabled by the Enhedslisten. In this way we are very pleased to be able to contribute to the political work of New Citizens. Since 2013, the then broad majority has started to crumble, as we are hearing today. Parties that have been in government in Denmark for a short or long time have fallen from one by one. This applies to the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives. The Liberal Alliance, which in the meantime has been in a government which defended this law of secrecy, has now returned to the transparency team with the rest of us. Thank you for that and welcome home! It's nice too. Unfortunately, the elections in 2019 ended with the two old parties of power, the Social Democracy and the Left, together gaining a narrow majority in the Folketing, and so do they, even though a single Leftman, Mr. Marcus Knuth, has recently become conservative, and fortunately, therefore, I would say that the opinion on the Public Service Act has changed. But there is still a majority, and the constellation in which the Left and the Social Democrats are the only ones who support anything, we see in fact only this issue of the Public Service Act, that is, without any other parties, and that is a little disturbing, I think. For all of the last 100 years, either the Social Democracy or the Left have been in government in Denmark, and when one of the two parties has had a period of opposition, they have known for 100 years that they were again in government when the majority changed. This knowledge obviously does not increase the will for openness, and unfortunately there is nothing to suggest that we have also heard today that the Social Democrats or the Left are changing their attitude to the Public Service Act. The polls today show that the Social Democrats currently have a very, very strong support from the electorate, and in the Enhedslisten we hope that in the next elections the Left will go back so massively that the rest of us can make a majority to make a new public law. That would be nice. In the meantime, we must confine ourselves to marking our positions, and I think that is important, and we will do so today in the Enhedslisten by supporting this proposal from the New Citizens' Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172304	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172308	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund for the support for the New Citizens' motion for a resolution to amend the Public Service Act and remove the ministerial service rule in the Public Service Act. Mrs Rosa Lund makes it sound as if it is entirely on the moon that we sometimes have common political agendas. I just have to remind you that we also have a fight against the European Union, which we also share. I think there is also a third party in common with us on this matter. So I think that democracy is a strange size; sometimes we come together across parties, but when we do, it must be the matter, not typically block politics, that is the most important thing. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172349	I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund on this. I can also come to other matters where Enhedslisten and New Citizens agree. This applies, for example, to whether savings should be made on group funding and how many privileges we should have as parliamentary politicians and how many privileges ministers should have. So Mrs Pernille Vermund is absolutely right. Sometimes we meet across our otherwise extreme differences, I would say, and the Public Service Act is an example of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172415	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172426	Thank you. New citizens propose that by 2020 the government should be required to submit a draft law repealing the ministerial service rule in the Public Service Act. It is no secret that the Conservative People's Party would like us to have a dispute with the ministerial service rule. That is why we have also suggested in the past that we amend the provision on this in the Public Procurement Act in the context of negotiations for a change to the entire Public Procurement Act. We want more openness. This is an important part of our democracy. The media and citizens must have more insight into the political processes. When our President, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, was Minister of Justice, he tried to obtain a completely new public law, which included not only a change to § 24 but also to § 22 and § 27, but without success. Moreover, it was also in the basis of the VLAK government that the Public Service Act should be amended. So a new public law is our ambition. Having said that, we cannot support the resolution tabled by the new citizens, partly because we want a completely new public law covering everything, partly because we are bound by a conciliation on the existing public law, and we have not, like the SF and Radicals, left the conciliation. So as long as we are bound by the compromise, we cannot support the modification of a single element. Amendments to the law can only be made if there is agreement among the conciliation parties. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172620	Thank you. This is a classic example of something the Danes do not understand at all. To put it as it is: you have a policy that you want to implement, but because you are bound by an agreement with some parties that want something else, you will not fight for that policy, knowing that there are other parties who have left the conciliation circle to fight for what is right. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have seen this from the Conservative People's Party. When we speak of citizenship, it is essentially the same rhetoric that one has: we want to give citizenship to fewer people; criminal foreigners should not have citizenship. But when it comes down to it, then there are some agreements and some considerations that weigh more heavily, and then you don't mean it anyway. Should we not, if we now think that being part of this conciliation circle with the two major power parties is more important than openness to the public, hold back a little and keep a low profile with our criticism and then say: we support the public law as it is until the Social Democracy and the Left think otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172729	If the New Citizens' motion for a resolution had been about calling on the government to call for negotiations on the amendment of the entire Public Service Act, then we would have supported it. But it is only one element among several elements, and since we are still a part of a settlement, we cannot agree to change one element. However, a call to change the entire Public Service Act is our ambition. We would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172758	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172800	That's interesting. Then I have to assume that the Conservative People's Party will table a motion for a resolution that the government should convene these negotiations or that it should be raised in the conciliation circle where, as you know, you are still sitting. I therefore believe that we cannot simply say that we are fighting for a policy, but when a party is proposing it in the Assembly, we are voting it down and, moreover, we are not going to do anything actively to put that policy into practice. That's putting people in the eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172832	We have done a great deal to change the public law. When Søren Pape Poulsen was Minister of Justice, he called for negotiations and we were a long time in the negotiations and we tried to change the public law, but there was just not a majority for it then, but we still have an ambition to change the public law, and I would call for this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172857	Thank you. There are no more questions for the young man. And then we would like to welcome Alex Vanopslagh from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512172918	Thank you for that, and it was nice to hear a good Vestjysk pronunciation of my last name, I have missed that, although I have actually just been home in Vestjylland President Although we sometimes say Water Posts). I can say that Leif Mikkelsen, our former President, said Vandopslaw. So there are different variants, but it's so fine. First of all, I would like to thank the new citizens for presenting this resolution, which we think is very good, and we support it. It can hardly come as the big surprise. From the very beginning, we have actually been fiercely opposed to the tightening up of the Public Service Act adopted by the Socialist Government back in 2013 and have also worked to bring back the austerity. We did the same when we were in government. We tried, but we did not succeed, and there are so many things in politics. Now we're again a free bird and can crow with the rest of you, and so are we here. As far as we are concerned, it is essential in a democracy that citizens and the media should be able, so to speak, to keep the rulers in their ears, so that you can check in relation to the work, and therefore it would also be sensible to remove this special rule on ministerial service. I am therefore in favour of the need, of course, for a minister to be able to talk about and discuss proposals in confidence with his officials, but once the political decision has been taken, we believe that there must be full transparency about the process, so that citizens can see how the policy that interferes with the lives of citizens, which changes the lives of citizens and, in some cases, restricts their freedom, as we see in these times in dealing with the Corona virus, has become. It has given very, very far-reaching powers to the government, and it comes out on a regular basis that the government repeatedly trumps and ignores the health authorities in order to take over powers. It may well be well-founded, but of course, once the decision has been taken, the public has an interest in being able to discuss these things and gain insight into these things. They have not only an interest in it, but also, in fact, somewhere, a democratic claim to it as we see it. So we think this is an excellent resolution. Well, yes, we can swing up to the big slogans that it is a pity that the two old great power parties are united around the secrecy. And as I mentioned earlier, I really do not quite understand why the Left continues to do so. It is probably only for the benefit of the Social Democratic Government. Once there is a Left Government, there will probably be a majority that will change the public law. However, it is hardly necessary to use the speaking time from the parliamentary platform to discuss tactics, and this is perhaps more a tactical consideration than it is so much more. In this way, there are many things you can actually wonder about these days with some big blue parties. Let it go. The proposal is good. We support it and once again commend New Citizens for putting it forward. We are happy to be back among the free voices in the Folketing together with Enhedslisten and other good people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173220	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173224	Thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Alex Vanopslagh for the support for New Citizens' proposals and I welcome the fact that LA has become a free voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173240	There is not a day when we do not welcome the same. And we are happy to cooperate with a lot of parties, including New Citizens. That is how we can continue to commend one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173300	Thank you. If anyone is listening to this debate and thinking that this is about the fact that the big parties will not be looked at in the cards, then I think they are actually right. And I believe that it will help politicians when it is so difficult to shed more light on the inter ventions that are made behind the legislation and that are carried out inside the ministries. I do not think it would have been necessary for the Left to adopt this Corona Openness manifesto last week if we had not had this cover-up law supported by the Left. In the alternative, we are in favour of transparency, and we are also ready to repeal or amend the rules of the Public Service Regulation. We want central legislation to ensure transparency; we do not want to be among the most closed countries; we do not want international criticism of being too closed down in our political system. The argument that you can just ask the individual ministers about access to information and access to documents simply does not stand. Then we must have several traffic manifests, health manifests, educational manifests and social manifests, yes, every time there is a case, the Minister must be threatened with fire and fire to get information. It's not gonna last. Let us get some light in through the thick walls of the castle that are so strong that it reaches the bottom of the paper piles and gives citizens some of the middle bills that create the legislation that all people have to comply with. In the alternative, we support the proposal from the New Citizens' Party, and if support is found and we have to go to committee, perhaps we could see whether it should be rolled back one by one or whether we should adjust and modernise it. However, after this debate, we certainly support the motion for a resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173459	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173502	Thank you. I would just like to thank the alternative for supporting the motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party to remove the rule of ministerial service from the Public Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173513	It is in the interests of transparency a pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173516	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512173535	Thank you. It is up to you to make comments on the last party's rapporteur and at the same time to get up here in time. Thank you to all parties for a good debate, and thank you to the parties, the many parties that support the New Citizens' motion for a resolution to repeal the ministerial rule of the Public Service Act. The Publicity Act extends far back in time, and at that time was the starting point for the law's openness. However, in 2013, a new and applicable Public Procurement Act was passed, as it is also called, because it has reduced transparency. A large number of important documents can be exempted from access to documents by means of the ministerial service rule introduced into the new law, even though they have been exchanged between different authorities. Before the introduction of the ministerial service rule, the starting point was the opposite. Access to documents could only be restricted to a very small extent. Several of the parties who voted in favour at that time have regretted it. It is gratifying, but unfortunately it is not enough to give a majority to stop the cover-up. Social democracy and the Left, the two major power parties, hold hands over the cover-up law with the narrowest possible majority here in the Folketing: just 90 mandates behind it. It is the rules of democracy that the majority decides. However, I had hoped, perhaps a little gullible, that the Left in particular had come up with better thoughts, because last week the Left was co-signators with, among others. We in the New Citizen on a manifesto of openness which called for more openness of the government in relation to the Corona resolutions. Why the Left only wants transparency on special occasions, I do not understand, but perhaps the rapporteur can answer that. In New Citizens we want openness on all 365 days of the year, because the Danes deserve to gain insight into what is happening. The Darkening Act has made it difficult and, in several cases, completely impossible for journalists and citizens to gain insight into important information. The lack of openness on the part of the authorities is completely untenable in our democratic society. It is not small things that the ministerial service rule in the cover-up law has covered up what it has prevented journalists from spotting what it has prevented the Danes from getting answers to. The ministerial service rule was used to cover up parts of the case of Turkey's release of the suspect behind the assassination attempt at Lars Hedegaard. The ministerial service rule also meant that journalists could not have access to a case of IS terrorists in Syria raising cash assistance in Denmark. And most recently during the corona crisis, the ministerial service rule also has darkened material and correspondence across Danish authorities, which are the basis for government decisions. As recently as Sunday, the Danish Health Authority published amended recommendations, so the distance requirement as a rule was changed from 2 m to 1 m. We would have been able to open much more in the latest reopening agreement at Marienborg here on Thursday if we had been inaugurated into the concrete plans of the Danish Health Authority. We weren't. We were given a loose explanation that there would be some new guidelines, but no indication at all that there would be a landmark new course. Why did the Prime Minister not ask the Health Authority to explain the changed distance requirements before the negotiations on Thursday, or at least during the negotiations? And if on Thursday the Prime Minister himself was not aware that the new guidelines of the Danish Health Authority would contain a reduction in distance requirements, was it because they were invented by the board this weekend? We may never get an answer to that, because the ministerial service rule makes it difficult for journalists to seek access to documents, including in that regard. These are just a few of a large number of examples of what the ministerial service rule creates from problems in relation to public access to documents for the Danes. The Ombudsman also concluded in October 2016 that the ministerial service rule has led to significant restrictions on the right of access, regardless of its proper application. So it's not the official work we're after with this proposal. Our criticism is about the rule itself, which has not led to better legal quality, only blackout. We would put an end to this problem with this proposal, but unfortunately the traditional government-supporting parties will not be involved in this. And why not? The ministerial service rule is basically about ministers being able to prevent citizens from gaining insight into information that ministers do not like to share. Perhaps that's the answer; something might indicate it. In any case, cover-up is totally unacceptable. Journalists must, of course, have the opportunity to be watchdogs for society. When a government makes decisions about the Danes' everyday lives, it is only fair that the people have the opportunity to gain insight into and obtain information through a critical press about what is going on in the ministries. The parties of power must remember that minister means servant and not ruler. No minister must be able to conceal the full basis for the decisions taken by the Minister on behalf of the people's regime. The Freedom of Information Commission has recommended that the rule be revised in order to give greater weight to the need for freedom of information and to ensure greater understanding of the facts underlying the political decisions. I recommend the same thing, which is why I hope that the Social Democrats and the Left will change their minds and vote in favour of the new citizens' proposals, so that we can stop the cover-up. I doubt, however, that this will happen, but it would certainly be fair in a democracy such as the Danish one. The Danes deserve to have insight and to know the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174205	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174225	The debate is open. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174250	Thank you for that, President. It's completely new to be standing up here again, and it's also under a little different conditions with such a plexiglass screen between us. That fg. President As the woman in the cage here). Yes, it is good that we take good care of the President. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for focusing on the efforts of vulnerable and previously placed young people. All young people deserve a good start to adulthood and, as a society, we have a special responsibility to ensure that a exposed child does not become an exposed adult. We are not lifting that responsibility well enough today. I therefore fully support the purpose and intention behind the motion for a resolution. Too many children are not doing well as adults; they tend to end up in homelessness, without education and out of work. Unfortunately, we can see from the statistics that half of the homeless young people have been placed, one in four previously placed men have been in prison before he reaches the age of 30, and only a quarter of young people with housing background have received youth training at 25 years of age. Too many young people placed there are without networks because their support and carers are all too typical to disappear when they reach the age of 18. This testifies to the fact that, as a society, we are not good enough to ensure that children placed in care receive the help and support they need when the placement stops and they have to stand on their own feet. We must be able to do better than that. Young people in need must have the support they need, and we must not let them go until they are well on their way into adulthood. Young people must have the same opportunities for a good youth life as other young people. They need friends, and they need a network to support them. They must have the opportunity to complete an education and get to work, and they must have a residence and a home when they move from their foster family or a 24-hour institution. My ambition is that placed children will have the same opportunities in adulthood as their peers. We need to be better at listening to and involving young people. This applies both to the municipalities, who must be better able to listen to what the young themselves want when they organise the after-care service for the individual young people, and also to me as Minister and us as Parliament. We also need to listen much more to young people when we make new policies for young people. Young people must experience that the post-protection is there for them and organized according to their wishes and resources. I believe that this helps to ensure that the young person can master his own life. Involvement of young people is a point of reference in an interesting project called "Investing in after-protection," which is in progress in seven municipalities in partnership with the Danish Social Protection Agency. From 2017 to 2020, municipalities have reorganised their post-protection efforts. Several of the municipalities have established new networking activities in the municipality such as: open offers targeted young people in the target audience for defense. All municipalities have involvement and cooperation with young people as a core element. They must offer all young people placed in the municipality protection, and the experiences of young people are part of the cross-cutting work through a youth panel. These are some very exciting experiences that are being done in the UIP project, and these are some experiences we need to pick up on. But I also believe that we need to look more closely for solutions for young people who have been placed in the past. From what I hear when I speak to previously placed young people and organisations in this area, young people need more relations that are not paid and that are not part of their placement. They need networks and fellowship with people in whom they can reflect and who can help them well in adult life. Such relationships can be absolutely crucial to the ability of previously placed people to find a home, create a home, complete an education and get into a job. I believe that we need to do much more to support young people who are placed in communities and have non-paid relationships that can follow them lifelong. It can, for example, be done. be through initiatives such as mentoring schemes or friendship families... and so something more and something other than an after-care with employment crowns in the back. This stronger focus on lasting relationships, I think, is an important part of the solution, but I think there's still more to be done. We are looking at major challenges that require good and solid solutions. Therefore, the transition to adulthood is also included as one of the three tracks that are being worked on in the government's upcoming project • The children first. Here we will, among other things. look at the need to change the rules on defence, but we need to look at the area in depth before we get to the concrete solutions. We have always said on the part of the government that we will have a broad process of involvement with the actors in this area and, above all, the young people themselves, so that we can address all the challenges. We are presenting an overall initiative by the government in the field of children later this year, and on this basis we cannot support the resolution as it stands now, which requires a change of law this year. But we are very open to looking in the further committee to see whether we can agree on a joint report with the aim of strengthening the protection of young people in care. So again just thank you to Enhedslisten for raising an extremely important matter here in the Danish Parliament, and I look forward very much to both the debate here in the Chamber and the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174814	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174823	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the Minister, when she says that she agrees with the aim and intention of the proposal, namely to ensure that children placed in care are well on the way, even in adulthood, yet cannot support the proposal that lies in it. Can the Minister confirm that for a long time there has been a desire to have a post-protection offer, that is, not a 'can' clause, but simply to follow up on children being given a right to protection? Are there any of the actors in this area to whom the Minister would like to listen who are opposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512174908	It is true that the discussion about protection and how best to help children placed properly into adult life is not new, it was also one of the things that was discussed when the child's reform was made, where, if I don't remember much wrong, SF was one of the forces that lifted the right to protection for the groups that have it now. I think we need to face up to the fact that we need to think wider here than just discussing the right of defence and the right of a contact person, which is what is specifically the basis of the resolution here. I think we need more and more; I think we need to have some different success parameters in relation to young people; I think we need to have a much greater understanding of how much responsibility we have as a society to also support lasting non-paid relationships with young people who can follow them not only into adult life, but would like to be there for them throughout their lives. The study which came from the Bikuben Foundation this autumn shows that some of the characteristics of the young people in the past are that they have very, very fragile relations, and that is more and more than just what this resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175017	Thank you, Minister. Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175018	After all, this is a resolution on which we can always build, and one does not rule out the other. For the Minister's information: In the Danish People's Party I fought at the rapporteur's table in the pool of rates for many millions in this area, so that we had just allocated money to the municipalities, together with the SF. And that is why I know that a great many millions of kroner have been given out for defense in order to ensure that. So it might also be interesting that the Minister sent over to the committee, where millions of kroner we have actually given out to protect children who have been placed, to ensure a proper transition to adult life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175101	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175103	But I should like to do so in committee, so simply to follow up on how much money has been given under the pool of rates. I myself feel that some of what I think has damaged the social area much more than we may have just known, while it was said, is that many efforts have been temporary and project-based, and even if they showed something good, they have not been followed up systematically. And that's why we did, among other things. this UIP construction, where I highlighted the project called "Investing in after-protection." The reason why I am mentioning this now is that I actually believe that we should take it very, very seriously here and follow up on the experiences that come from here, and that is one of the things we are going to do in the run-up to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175141	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175145	First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for recognising that this is extremely important and necessary, and also for the announcement that we can discuss it further, including in relation to a report. I would say that, from our point of view, it is also quite straightforward that we should start with this after-care thing now. Because it is so clear that it is needed and that it is what the social workers and social educators clearly recommend that it is needed. So I think we could get started right away, and that will still be our call to the government. However, I would like to say that, at least, it is very, very important that, in the forthcoming negotiations on the child's law, we also have this both in terms of protection and in terms of quality, with a focus on the quality of the changes we are facing. Because it is no use talking about more children and young people being placed if they are not actually able to provide them with a decent life and the help they need. So I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether we can get a promise that this is a very central part of the forthcoming discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175250	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175251	But it is very, very clear. In other words, that we also need to focus on the quality of our placements, there is simply no doubt whatsoever. This applies throughout the whole life of the child, where we see too many shifts, but when you look at the study presented in the autumn from the Bikubenfonden, where you had talked to some of the previously placed young people, you could hear that there is a very low confidence in the public system to help them move on into adult life, and that there are also a number of young people who are offered protection, who say no, because they are totally system-tired; some of them are also decidedly system-wracked. And it is for many of them that we can also find in the most serious statistics: the homeless statistics, the suicide statistics, and when we look at the crime statistics. That is why we have to go all the way around, and we also have to get around very thoroughly. I speak for far too long. The President has not yet got up, but I just want to say: the youth panel that follows the investment in after-protection also points out how important it is that we, as a society, are also able to secure these children with some unpaid relationships. I've brought up a quote because I think it's so good. One of the young people says: If it smells too much of the municipality, it doesn't matter to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175357	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175359	To that I would just like to say, to clarify that there is also in our motion for a resolution that this can have all sorts of forms. Maybe you stay a little longer with your foster family. It may be a contact person, it may be groups, it may be much other. So it's open. But one of the reasons, I think, for many of the weakest young people actually to say no is that it is not a right. You know you're about to have a fight with the municipality, and that's exactly what can be so insanely hard that you have to get into such a relationship where you're again the submissive one who has to stand with the hat in your hand. This is exactly what we want to avoid with this proposal. We'd like to secure this right for all young people, and I think that would be really nice if the government could just jump on it right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175435	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175437	I can very well hear and follow what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, and I think that is quite right. So there is also a great deal of openness from this point of view when it comes to taking up the debate. I think we're gonna have to expand around it. Something like friendship families, that is, there should be no institutionalized children who do not have people's lives who do not have a paycheck. And that's not because there's something wrong with the work that our skilled employees in that area are doing at all, they save lives and take children into their hearts and make a huge difference, but there's something more and something else to do, I think, and I'm really looking forward to discussing that with the fortunately committed rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175513	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the next rapporteur and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175533	Thank you for the floor, President. As a Social Democrat, I have always believed that all children must have the best opportunities in life. It is simply one of the fundamentals of our welfare society, which I believe is fair and quite solidarity. We are fighting for strong day care institutions and primary schools to provide all children with the best conditions for living a good life. All children must have the opportunity to live out their full potential, whether they come from a working home or an academic home. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case for all children that they always have the very best conditions for living a good life. This is especially true of our children and young people, who often have a difficult and turbulent start to life and who, unfortunately, are not doing well as adults either. We also know that when previously placed children and young people become adults and have children themselves, there is a higher degree of their children being placed. Several children and young people are also left homeless, as the Minister also described. We see many girls commit suicide, make self-harm or otherwise do not thrive. It goes without saying that children must be better placed than they are today, and I believe that we can all agree in this Chamber that we must also ensure the transition from childhood to adulthood and that we must have it strengthened in this way. It is a special responsibility that we have as a society towards children and young people who have been placed, and we should not let them go until the young person has got into adult life well. That is why I am also pleased that the government and the Minister are working for what we are hearing here in relation to the transition from child to adult for children and young people in care. The government is going to make a joint venture where one of the legs is to ensure the work and need of the rules for protection, and one will look at how we strengthen the post-protection area, and also involve the children young people who need and need the support that they have when they go from youth to adulthood. In relation to the motion for a resolution here, I would like to give my clear support to the intentions behind it. Because I believe that there is a need to make a greater effort and for us to tackle and make use of and look at all the issues for the children and young people placed in the care of what they are facing today. We do this best by involving children and young people, but also by involving relevant professionals and organisations in this area, as the Minister also describes. We need to look at all corners and corners so that we can have robust legislation based on children and young people's lives and opportunities. We need to do the very best for the children. It is the clear ambition of the Social Democrats that we should ensure that children have equal opportunities, whatever they may come from. It takes time, and especially now that the Corona crisis has brought things to a standstill, this is also a challenge. However, the work to ensure better conditions for children and young people in care must be done both sensibly and properly, and that is why we also believe that it is not realistic when there is a debate later this year. This is with great sympathy and recognition in relation to what the resolution is about, but we cannot support what it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175923	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512175930	I would also like to thank you very much for recognising that this is important and for the willingness to support it as a starting point. But I would like to ask quite specifically what elements the rapporteur thinks need to be clarified. Because, as I see it, it is very clear that, among other things: The social workers and the social educators who sit with this every day have been calling for this right of protection for a very long time. In relation to the young people who are being investigated and who are using it systematically, as the Minister also mentioned, there are some very good experiences with it. In fact, our proposal suggests that all sorts of different kinds of this protection can be included. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur what really is to think about, because at the same time it is a group of people who, frankly, can use that hand-out, and also like a year earlier than a year later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180026	Camilla Fabricius, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180028	Thank you for the question. I really think that the Minister has also explained this very carefully, that is to say, the fact that we have to walk on several feet at once, that we have to have a package together, but also in relation to this, about what we are really doing. Now that so many young people point out that what has been is not what should point forward in their lives, for example. that they have another social worker with them at the age of 18; what kind of solutions are they supposed to be in these defenses? Then I also recognise that the Enhedslisten rapporteur says that the intentions of the resolution are also about saying: can there be a wide range of approaches to this? I think that is actually worth moving on with. And one of the things that's really good in this is to look at how many different defenses can be thought of. In fact, I think it is a matter of discussing it more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180131	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180135	Thank you very much. Then I just have a follow-up question, and perhaps it is in fact more in relation to some of what the Minister said, so it may be difficult for the rapporteur to answer; it was here with the voluntary service versus the paid employees that the rapporteur also mentioned. In other words, as I see it, voluntary work is also good, but I also think that this is a piece of work for which we, as a society, have a responsibility, too, to help pay. And I would just like to know whether the rapporteur also agrees that it is not, as such, the economic concern that is in the way here, because we have plenty of good proposals on how to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180213	This is where I would have liked to have had a great deal of time, but if we try to separate it, I would say that there should of course be no doubt whatsoever that what requires skilled, competent work must, of course, support that part. What we can also see is that young people who are housed have a very low connection with, for example, association life. Even if they want and need to volunteer in sports clubs, scout clubs or other things and want to be leaders, they do not. This has been pointed out by the Centre for Volunteering. You can see that in large areas where you are either...
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180308	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I would like to read out the following speech: thank you to the Enhedslisten for focusing on the conditions of young people previously placed in it with this resolution. With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wants proposals to be made before the end of this year to amend the Services Act so that all previously placed young people are entitled to post-protection aid. In the Left we support the intentions behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, because we agree that we must ensure that young people placed in care have as good a life as possible, even after the placement ends. It is important that placed young people do not fall between two chairs when they go through the transition from child to adult. This transition can be a very difficult time for young people. Having said that, I should like to tell you now that we in the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. The rules in the Service Act already support the fact that the municipalities must make a clear decision on the individual child's or young person's need for support. At the same time, the right of appeal ensures that the decisions of the municipalities can be verified if the young person disagrees with the municipality's decision, for example. in relation to post-protection. We in the Left therefore believe that there are already the necessary possibilities in existing legislation so that previously placed young people can benefit from post-protection support. We people are different, and it is young people who have been placed, too. Therefore, there will also be different needs among these young people. There are some who need protection and some who do not. With that said, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we are prepared to work on a possible joint report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180449	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180452	Thank you so much. I'll try not to ask too much about the details, but thank you for the announcement that I might be able to work on a report. I would just like to emphasise that the practice in the municipalities is extremely different. There are some municipalities that use this very much, and there are others that hardly use it. It gives a very wrong picture of it: If you are young and live in a lucky municipality, you can get a good offer, and otherwise you can't. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot indicate that this is actually fair and equal for everyone, at least it is also a concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180545	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180546	Yes, the rapporteur can certainly confirm that. In the Left, we are very much in favour of local self-government, but we are also very much in favour of securing these young people when their placement ends. That is also why, in my rapporteur's speech, I stressed the need for local authorities to decide on the needs of each child. It may also be some of what is taken further in a report that one might have to look into the fact that the municipalities should be allowed to be different. This is the case in all respects with local self-government, which we firmly support, but it may well be that we have to look into the fact that the municipalities understand that the differences are there, but that there is also a legal requirement for young people in the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180617	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512180633	Thank you. The proposal is about the right to care for children and young people in care and to support them in the transition from child to adult with the challenges they can face. When you are placed as a child, it often happens that you become a system child, a child of the system until the age of 18. Then we risk subsequently losing the young people on the floor because of the age of the baptism certificate. Then you're an adult, and then you can take care of yourself. But that is not the case in the real world. We can see that, even with children who have grown up with their mother and father, and now I am looking around in the Parliament hall: there are probably more who have children over 18 years of age who still need their parents' support and help, and thank God for that. It may be the budget you have to lay down: how do you put a budget? How are the bills to be paid? And these are all such challenges. Children who have been brought in do not have the same options, and often they are let go and left to themselves or placed in a room in the city. As a society, you pay billions on placements, but you don't follow up. We do not make sure, as a society, that the means that are also being used in this area are followed up with quality and efforts that help children and young people who need it. I have been in a lot of bet pool negotiations, and that is where we, as rapporteurs in this area, could fight to get extra money to protect children and young people placed in care, for projects that were intended to help children and young people, but that is when it comes to following it up again. When experimenting in the municipalities, which has a good effect, it must be followed up that they are also implemented in the municipalities. It has to be said that there is a huge difference between how the 98 municipalities administer legislation today, but also the post-protection area, and how to help vulnerable children and young people. In the Danish People's Party we want to help ensure the transition from young to adult. We cannot support the financing of this motion for a resolution, but we want to help look at how we can write a joint report so that we are sure once and for all that we ensure that no matter where you live and wherever you come from, there is always someone who can help you. I think it was in the Ekstrabladet that on the other day I read a post from a girl who told me that she had now been 18 years old, and she was completely left to herself; she had no one to help her. So there are huge challenges in this area. I was also in a debate with Mrs Camilla Fabricius in Aarhus, where we were with the young people who also told them what they needed: having one adult to be trusted, having a permanent associate will mean a great deal. After all, defense can be organized in many ways. It can be organized by Mentorbarn, it can be organized by volunteers, where you have someone who helps, and it can be organized by the municipalities. There isn't a formula for what a defense should be like. It will, of course, depend on the wishes and needs of the individual. So I hope that we can reach a good solution together, and then I look forward to us being invited to some negotiations in this area at some point, so that it will not just be the government that puts this agenda, because there are a lot of things in this area that need to be negotiated. In the Danish People's Party we do not have a wish that we should just have more placements or more forced abortions. It is about strengthening legal certainty and, of course, it is also about the right children being placed on a well-documented basis. There, too, we can only see today that there is a lack of quality assurance in the cases. The children are often not heard. Parents will not be heard by parties etc. etc. So I'm looking forward to getting this work started. After all, we had planned a lot of consultations in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, both on forced abortion and also on the field of the care of the family, but because of the covid-19, much of it has been postponed, and that is really a pity. But we certainly have work to pursue, and I am sure that all the rapporteurs are ready for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181128	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your support for what this proposal is about, and that is something that the rapporteur has been concerned about for a long time too. So it's really good that we can work together for it. I would just like to say in relation to funding that this is not what should divide us as such. We are, of course, proposing to take funding from the housing job scheme, but we have also written in the proposal that, if there is a wish, we are very open to negotiating how to find that money. But I am thinking at least that there is a feeling that we will hopefully be able to get a good report on it. But it was just to signal that if it comes to a vote, don't hold back because of the funding we'll find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181213	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181215	Thank you. Then the question is whether the funding has not been given in advance by some rounds. I mean, I think that we have set aside a great deal of money for this, and I also know that there have been some economic negotiations, where the municipalities get dut-fund in relation to the tasks they have to solve. So it is also worth looking into, precisely in relation to what may be needed by extra funds, and what it is basically of what you have got in advance for some tasks. But I look forward to the committee reading and to seeing where we can land it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181255	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181300	Thank you. Well, I also very much appreciate the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party's response to this. It's really nice when we can get together on something and have that recognition of this problem. However, what makes me speak is that I have now heard it from the rapporteur on a number of occasions, and that is why I just need to be clear whether the rapporteur can be quite sharp. For the rapporteur has reiterated that placements must be on a well-documented basis and that there should be no placements unless necessary. Can we agree that it is well documented that children should be placed if there is a need?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181349	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181350	Yes, well, there are no children who must grow up and be subjected to violence, incest or other things that far we are in complete agreement. When I read Justitia's report on legal certainty in placements; when I see the Citizen's Advisor from the City of Copenhagen I think it was in 2018 or 2017 that there are errors in 100 per cent. of all matters; when I hear from parents that they have not been heard; when I hear from children that there has not been a child conversation; when the information contained is not correct; and when I hear that sometimes it is social worker students who are put to do this work; well, then I am concerned about legal certainty. However, I fully agree that there are no children to grow up in a messy life, but I have witnessed a great many mistakes. I remember a case from Roskilde (Den fg. President-in-Office of the Council.), where they were forced to bring their child, and six months later they got it back; it destroys a family completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181457	Okay. Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181500	So when it is well documented that children need to be placed because they are in families where their parents are unable to maintain parental contact, and that we repeatedly see parents who cannot carry out the parental task and that we can see that more placements need to be made, would the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party not agree that the consequence would be that if we are to do what the rapporteur says, namely take good care of children who need it, we will also have to look at the number of placements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181539	Well, because the difference between Mrs Camilla Fabricius and myself as rapporteurs is that for me it is not about any number. Well, this isn't about us just having more placements and forced abortions. I have expressed this very many times. It's all about so much more. Nor is it about the children against parents or parents against children; it is also about the family as a unit; it is about where you take action in relation to prevention. Remember, these parents may also have been abandoned as children in the past and may have been placed. How do you help them? Could you have helped them by taking care of them and by becoming a young mother? So there are so many things, so this discussion is not just black and white, and that is why we have also asked for a coal excavation of this area, but unfortunately we have not received the support of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181625	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181641	Thank you. Thank you for this debate on the right to protection of children placed in care. I fully agree with the intention and also thank you for the Minister's commitment to address the conditions for children placed in care, including protection, wider. We would like to contribute to a report which points in that direction. We do not support the proposal itself, as we believe that it should be taken under the auspices of a financial bill debate. So funding stands in the way of us being able to support it immediately, but at least we are prepared to join forces in relation to the work that we believe should be done in order to improve the whole of our placement system and also the post-protection system. Following on from the debate which has just taken place, I have to say that my ideal is no more places, rather fewer places. So if we are also to go in where it is a question of preventing placements in families, it will be absolutely perfect. But there is no doubt that there is a need to look at the part called defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512181743	Thank you. Too many young people lose their foothold in the transition from home to home. The current post-protection efforts are not working well enough. Too few people are awarded it, and too many choose it out, and the right offers are missing. The motion for a resolution calls for better assistance for young people in the transition to adulthood. We can only agree with the need in the SF. We should depart from the fact that the task of the municipalities is thus to find out how the young person is best supported in the transition. The transition may in itself be a demanding upheaval for many young people, but for those previously placed, it presents additional challenges. Where, in those years, young people who have not been placed move away from home later and later from home and receive support from their parents far up in their twenties, at least my children are left far too much to cope with the transition to an independent life, despite the fact that they often have a much worse network and the possibility of parental support than other young people have. So loneliness is a condition known to many youths with a wallpaper. After-care can be a variety of things, and the research shows that there is a great variety of young people who receive protection and, above all, what kind of protection they receive. At first sight it seems that those with the most resources are fighting for protection, whereas the group of young people who have complex problems do not have the same opportunities for it. It should not be an opportunity to fight, but a right. We have long believed this in the SF, and we would therefore be very happy if a majority could finally come together for it. There is still a marked over-representation of young people with a miserable position. It turns out, among other things. They are over-represented in statistics on abuse, psychological problems, crime and homelessness. This shows that there is a great need to create better transitions so that these young people can have the tools to master life, and it is our job to ensure that the legal basis guarantees that all young people receive that support. I never believed that it was beneficial for many of the previously placed to be released at the age of 18. In fact, it has always puzzled me that we have made social investments in children and young people, but that we do not take the same thinking forward, so that their transition to adulthood is also facilitated. That is why I am also pleased that Enhedslisten will be involved in working for the right to protection. I believe that we can go a long way if we think of placements and post-protection into social communities and into good networks and into the same life opportunities as their peers. For SF, it is a matter of priority to ensure that children and young people placed in care are given the right help, even in the transition to adulthood, and over the past many years we have been involved in negotiating funds to develop good post-protection interventions, such as the Minister. have also mentioned some of the measures and also carried them out as a finance bill, but without sufficient support. However, if it is possible to find a majority in favour of financing the right of detention up to the 23rd year, then the SF is in favour. However, the protection of 18-23-year-olds does not only do so, and the Minister also mentioned this. But it shouldn't rule out supporting this proposal. There is a need for a discussion of what the criteria are for when the young person is released, so as to ensure a good and coherent life for the young person, including for example. a stable place to live, communities to participate in and contact with someone you trust. The care provision should also be worked together in cooperation with the young person and be so flexible that it really meets the needs, and the plan for the transition to adult life should be made much earlier than today. In fact, it is almost too late to make the plan at the time of the legislation today. Then the possibility of help should not just stop abruptly at a certain age, even by the 23rd year. One could, for example: discuss whether we could give the previously placed ones, which we know has the heaviest luggage with them and the thinliest network, a kind of defense which could give them easy access to conversations, to support and the like, even later in life, without them having to become a matter again. However, as I have said, we support the right of defence if the necessary funding can be obtained by a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182240	Thanks to Trine Torp. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182244	First of all, I would just like to thank you very much for your very clear support for the proposal. I also took note of the fact that the SF is also saying: let us finally get it done as quickly as possible. I think that is very good and important, so thank you very much for that, because there we are in complete agreement and hopefully we can also help get the country something good here. I would like to ask about something that has been discussed in the past, but not so much by the rapporteur now, and it is here about how much must be voluntary and how much there must be a system and a requirement that is guaranteed. It is my view that it is very important that it is also a right that people have to get that help and that we also provide the very firm framework for it. It is also my impression that the SF feels the same way, but I would like it to be clarified a little, since the rapporteur has also been sitting with this area a little longer and because it is good to get the arguments out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182347	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182349	Thank you. In addition to my political concern, I have also professionally worked with these young people in the past. What this is about is that we are very much in favour of there being a concrete, individual assessment of the needs of each young person. In fact, we think we should make these plans for action from the age of 15 and leave it to the age of 25. It must, of course, be a plan of action that can be adjusted along the way, but it is a question of giving the young person a rest, which is about the fact that a plan has been drawn up for what support the young person can receive later in life. When it stands as it is in the legislation, it is because it was thought that if we give the municipalities the obligation to assess the need, there will probably be a good plan out of it, but it has just been shown that it is not and that it is too arbitrary who gets it. Unfortunately, there is also some kind of what you call a creaming effect, i.e. that it may be they who need it most not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182457	Thank you. There is a request for another brief remark from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182500	I just want to elaborate on something. That is exactly what is behind the proposal here. I think it is really important that we can bring it into the report section too, so that this is precisely what has to be done to ensure that it benefits everyone and not just those who, like you, have the power to fight for it. So thank you very much for your support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182520	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182522	I do not think I have any comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182529	It's fine. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182536	Thank you. I have been with you for so long now that I also remember that at the time we had a Minister for Social Affairs from the rapporteur's party, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen. But that's not what this is about. What this is about is that I recognise the rapporteur's work in the area of the right of defence, at least over the last many years, we have been in negotiations together. But when Mrs Trine Torp says that SF was involved in the finance negotiations, and we now have a proposal from the Enhedslisten, and there are two opposition parties in the financial negotiations, then I just got a little curious about what went wrong. Was it because the government didn't want you to have a right of defence, or why didn't you get it through there? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182633	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182633-2	I believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who has also been involved in financial law negotiations, knows very well that, in this way, you can only publish what you have brought to the table yourself, not what has happened in a negotiating room, and that it is not always what you want. I think the Danish People's Party is well aware of this from the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182653	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182654	It is true that you do not always get what you want, and even if you fight for it for a long time, you do not always get it either. But the reason I got curious was that Mrs Trine Torp mentioned that SF had taken it to the financial law negotiations. However, what the rapporteur says is fine, and then I just have to pass the baton on to the Enhedslisten when they get on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182722	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182724	In fact, I could say that it has been a wish of the SF and that we have tried to fight for it in all possible ways, but it is also the case in politics that everything is priorities at the end of such negotiations, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party knows that too. In the past, we have also fought together for these many millions to the area of post-protection, and we came as far as we could get, even though we would have preferred to have seen it turned into a right and it was therefore under a government other than the one we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182755	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I would like to welcome is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182813	Thank you. First of all, thank you to Enhedslisten for focusing on this area. It is very positive that Enhedslisten is interested in protection for young people. I am surprised, however, that the Enhedslisten has not brought it to the negotiating table and found the money for the efforts under the last Financial Act. But let's just leave it alone. For the Conservative People's Party, preventive work is important and it is important for us that there is the right help and support for vulnerable young people who have been placed in the transition from child to adult, which can be a challenging and difficult time. The right help and support can be very individual from person to person, and we believe that it must be based on a concrete, individual assessment, which must of course take place in dialogue with the young person, and it must be planned well before the 18th year. The intention in this motion for a resolution is good, but if we cannot support the resolution here, it is because we believe, as I said before, that it should be on the basis of an individual, concrete professional judgement that it is planned whether to implement defence measures. Finally, we cannot support the financing of this, which is to find the 300 million. kr. annual by abolishing the housing job scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182951	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512182955	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that perhaps the rapporteur was not sitting in the Danish Parliament at the time that we have raised this question of defense in all financial law negotiations. When a pool was set aside for it, it was also the result of bringing it up in those negotiations. So we have been fighting for it for a long time, but it is true that we have not got it through. Unfortunately, you don't always get things through. One of the problems was that the former Thorning-Schmidt government made a great many agreements with the blue parties, and that is exactly what is coming out here now: that the rapporteur does not really support the proposal, as I hear it. Does the rapporteur think that there is a need to ensure that these young people are protected, which means that they have the opportunity to get that advice and guidance, even when they are over 18 years of age, so that they are not immediately lost on the floor? Or does the rapporteur really think that it should be allowed to continue roughly as it is? I would just like the political answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183051	Thank you. I clearly believe that it is important that we ensure the right response for vulnerable young people. Clearly, it is important that we put in place safeguards against young people where they need it. The young people are very different and some are doing very well, some are doing less well and we must, of course, make sure to support those who need it with protection. So I definitely support that. I am also fully involved in my inquiries; I sit locally on the city council, and there are also enquiries about these social matters • that there is room for improvement in some places; that is quite clear. I admit that there is, too. So clearly we also have an interest in the fact that we must, of course, do the best possible for these vulnerable children and young people at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183140	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183142	Thank you so much. I also hear this as an indication that Conservatives can in fact probably be involved in the work here on a report in committee and that we can hopefully land something sensible there. And I appreciate that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183158	Is there a comment from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183200	Yeah. I would like to say that we would very much like to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183207	Then there's a brief comment from Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183210	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the Conservative People's Party would like it to be a concrete and individual assessment. Is it also the rapporteur's experience that all young people in need of protection will receive it today, after a concrete and individual assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183230	As I said before, I believe that there is room for improvement. I have also been asked, both as a member of parliament and as a town council politician, that there are young people and parents who may not think that the municipality has taken the measure that they think is needed. So there can certainly be cases where there will be parents and young people who think that there should have been some protection, and perhaps there would have been if there had been another professional assessment. I can't deny that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183306	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183308	There is room for improvement, but so, just asking someone who has the heaviest luggage with him and the poorest network, from one day to the next, when they turn 18, to take care of themselves, at least gives room for improvement. So how was that improvement to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183330	Well, it's out in the municipalities in the individual family departments that you have to make sure that there's a focus on this, and there has to be a management that makes sure that their employees live up to the law and make this assessment in every case and also makes it as you should, these 6 months before the 18th year. I also admit that it may be some of the weakest, so it can of course be very difficult to shout and complain about it afterwards if you experience that you have not got what you really needed and you think you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183415	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183437	Thank you so much. This is a very important matter, it is a very important debate, and I also sense and am quite sure that we are all quite agreed that children should of course hold our hands under it. At the same time, however, this proposal is a bit of an expression of something we have actually discussed in this Chamber before, in other words, the fact that we are making an overall assessment of a specific need, which we looked at all. We really want to get away from that. In fact, we think that this is very sensible with the specific and individual assessment, because, of course, children are in need of help. There are some who need a lot of help. But we also have to look at them individually. I simply found such a fine little quote as I will read out. It's 16-year-old Salma who says, "The adults shouldn't feel sorry for you." They look at you like you're a little hamster. I think that's a really, really nice little quote, because these kids and young people are very different. And besides, of course, ensuring that they are equipped along the way, there is already an opportunity in the Service Act to go in and make this individual and concrete assessment, namely, to look at before the child turns 18, whether there is a need here for us to actually hold hands especially under the young person, or whether it is actually a young person who can do it himself and we must believe in it. These previously placed young people are extremely different. Some need protection. Some will not need protection. They're not all the same, thank God for that. So we would rather ensure that action is targeted at those who really need it, and that must automatically be based on an individual, concrete assessment. It is not us, the politicians in here at Christiansborg, who have the competences to assess the individual. It has the professionals who are around the child. That is, of course, why competence must remain there. We are very open to, if there are any negotiations in this area, going in and looking at whether there are some things that might be better done, but we cannot support the resolution that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183702	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183705	Thank you. Frankly, I am a little surprised by the rapporteur's understanding of this, because the point here is precisely that this is a right for young people. They shouldn't sit like a little hamster, or whatever your example was, in front of a case officer and ask for it here or what it should look like. No, it must be a right that they have, because it is sensible and because, frankly, they deserve it. If we do what we propose and say that this is a right that all young people have, then it is always possible for the young person to say: I do not really think I need that; I am not interested in that. Then you can not take advantage of the right you have. It's always like that. But as long as you do not have the right, the young person can be in a situation where he is in the underhand and cannot choose for himself, and it is up to the municipality to decide. Then I would really like to hear from New Citizens how it makes sense with that logic that it should be the municipality which should be the ones who decide it. Because that is what is happening now. It's the municipality that decides now, it's not the kid. If you do what we propose, it would be the young person who had the opportunity. So how is this really connected with the New Citizen's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183814	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183815	This is very well linked, because it is, in fact, about the fact that we want to have a concrete assessment. I would really like to turn it around a little, because if you say that all young people have the right, the right and the need for protection, it is precisely that you go in and make them victims. And so there are still some of these young people who are actually capable young people and who can do it themselves. It is therefore extremely important to maintain that it must be concluded that it is a professional who has to assess it individually, in concrete terms. Whether there are some things that need to be changed in which professionals it is that should make the concrete assessment etc., we can easily look at. But this must be based on an individual, concrete assessment. It should not be something we in here from Christiansborg are dictating, because then it is precisely that we get into this with, among other things. to make everyone some kind of victim. And I think this quote pointed out very well: they are not victims. A lot of them are actually strong young people who can and will themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183907	Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183908	Now I don't know if the rapporteur has bothered to actually talk to this girl about what her quote means, but we know from a lot of these young people who are in this situation that they want it to be a requirement that they don't want them to sit around and negotiate on it. So I think that's very important. I would also just like to point out that what we are pointing to is not that there should not be a professional sitting and taking part in assessing what this should look like. There's got to be. It's just a right that the young person who wants to get the after-protection has. So there are still exactly the same opportunities for the professional input. And I don't know if that changes the position of the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183947	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512183948	No, it doesn't. This is about whether you want to make a one size fit all-model or whether you want to go into an individual, concrete assessment. If we make some legislation from in here, where everyone has requirements or rights to some different things, then we just start going over some areas that I do not necessarily think we should go over. We have had similar proposals in this Chamber about the same thing in some other areas, and there we had quite the same attitude. It's gotta be out there with the professionals. It must be an individual, concrete assessment. And so we have confidence that those professionals can assess whether there is a need for it. If there are any areas we need to look at, then we must enter into some negotiations, but we must not sit and make a one size fit all-model from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184028	The next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184033	Thank you. Well, this 18-year limit that's in the law is actually a little artificial. You could also choose to ask whether it is fair that because you are placed, there is such a dividing line, which is called 18 years, where you leave home, and when you sit and can not collect your IKEA furniture or you have run out of money or you have to have painted your apartment or you feel insecure at all, then there is no help to get. In other words, one could also ask oneself the question: how many Danish young people among the general population have the conditions that, because they are 18 years old, all the help and support from the adults around them close?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184113	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184115	That's actually a really, really interesting point. I heard the Minister say that is at least how I understood that there are also some debates in this area, because we actually have the problem of disability with simply some falling between two chairs, and I think that this is very, very important to address. But we don't solve that by going in here from Christiansborg and saying: Everyone is entitled to this; everyone is entitled to this particular solution. It must be based on an individual, concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis, from child to child and from young to young.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184146	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184148	I get a little bit of a desire to turn it around and ask what it's like to be a parent. I don't sit here and make a concrete individual assessment of my own children whether they should be allowed to stay at home for a year longer... whether I think they need it or not... or whether I want to come and help them assemble their IKEA furniture. Of course they need that help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184214	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184216	Well, that's where I think we're different, because I think it's easy to make an individual, concrete assessment of your children. It could easily be that I thought that my one child would have really good of trying himself with these IKEA furniture, because I actually believed that it could, and then there might be someone else that you hold your hand a little more under. In fact, I think it is a bad example, because everything, whether you are a child or not, whatever it is, must be based on an individual, concrete assessment of some professionals who are around that child in terms of what the child, the young person, needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184249	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no more brief comments, and the next person I would like to give the floor to is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, who is now in the right place. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184259	It's so fine; I was only teasing before. Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for a proposal which is quite sympathetic and has good intentions. Our position is that we cannot support the proposal for many of the same reasons that New Citizens have put forward today, namely that we think it is quite reasonable that we have the right today to decide whether we need protection. I can see that it is offered approx. 60% of the previously placed young people. In the most ideal of all worlds it is because it is 60% that has that need. The world is rarely so ideal when it comes to socially vulnerable people, in particular socially vulnerable people who depend on public procedures. Nevertheless, the idea that the individual's needs are being considered is the right way to do this, we believe in the Liberal Alliance, and the danger of one size fits all-models is that one size fits all-fits nobody. That is why we are sceptical. Now I am not a social rapporteur in my party, but I am here merely to cover up for my colleague, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, so it's really him that you should impress and make your hoser green for, but I listened a little along the way in the debate, and an argument that impressed me was • I don't remember which rapporteur mentioned it • this with the fact that it was the most resourceful young people who ended up fighting for the right to detention. And it is a general challenge in the social field that it is often those who are resourceful who can manage in the system, whether it is people who are unemployed, whether they are ill, whether they have children with disabilities, whether they are children or the like themselves, and that is an unfortunate circumstance and an unfortunate consequence of the bureaucracy and complexity of Danish society. If I were the Social Rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance and I were given convincing arguments and evidence during the committee work that there are a lot of young people who want to be defended but cannot fight it in the myriad of bureaucracy, that would be something that would impress me. Now I am not a social rapporteur, so I am here primarily to say that the Liberal Alliance does not directly support the proposal. Those will be my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184510	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh even though he is not the rapporteur in this area. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184514	I would just like to thank you for at least keeping that door open, because I think that is one of the very important reasons for including it. And if you are going to talk about something else, I also think you could appeal to the Liberal Alliance, it is, of course, that you can actually imagine that this could reduce the amount of bureaucracy, because there is a difference between whether you in the municipalities just know that it is a right that you give to people, and you so quickly start discussing how you can then put it into practice in a sensible way, or whether it is actually something that you have to sit and spend quite a lot of effort on treating whether people should have or not. So I actually think we can figure out more attractive sides about this if we dive into it a little bit. So thank you for that opening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184556	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184557	Let me nevertheless make a counter-argument to that, although I will in no way call myself a defence expert. If all previously placed children are to enter the post-protection process and have help with the transition to adult life, then that help also includes bureaucracy, paperwork, planks, plans and processes, and what do I know now I have worked as a consultant myself, so I know how to make really little of a lot of things to look like. So I really doubt that overall it will result in less bureaucracy, but if that is the case, then that is an argument that could impress the Liberal Alliance's social rapporteur, and we should be welcome to try our luck with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184640	That just gave rise to a question. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184643	Thank you. I was just trying to figure something out. One of the most common forms of protection is, for example, that children living in foster families can stay an extra year while completing their education or such things, and that is not extremely bureaucratic, but very common sense. So I look forward to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184709	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184711	Thanks for good input and for making me smarter on the after-care options.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184720	So I would like to thank the leader of the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and this is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512184747	Thank you so much. I have also been allowed to be a substitute today for Pernille Skipper, but that does not change the fact that, like Pernille Skipper, I think this is a very good proposal. First of all, thank you for having been there, I think, political support and sensitivity from a great many, and not least the Minister, that this is something we should have done better and that there is also an opportunity to do so very soon. I think that's insanely important. Because I think we all recognize that the time when you go from being a child to being an adult may be troublesome enough in itself, but for these young people who have also been placed, it is often quite unfairly difficult to get things on their feet. I simply do not think that we are helping them as they are now, and that is exactly what we on the Enhedslist want to change, and that is why we have put forward proposals to protect all young people who have been placed outside the home. In fact, it means things like that when you are 18, you may be able to, for example, if you are now 18 years old. is in the second year of upper secondary education or vocational training, be allowed to stay in your foster family until you finish your education. This means that if you have a good contact person in the municipality, you have the opportunity to continue working together, so that in fact there might be some who could come and help gather those IKEA furniture if you don't have anyone else around the world. This is precisely the kind of thing that is crucial for you to actually get on your feet and get an experience that you can manage to live for yourself. It is so important, I think, that we, as a society, also make it available, because it is simply not fair, I think, to expect that these young people who have been placed outside the home, from one day to the next, should just stand on their own feet and be extreme adults just because they have been 18 years old. It's not that easy. It's already some people, too, who have just said and seen that often haven't so much other network that can help with the laundry or help pay a dentist's bill or whatever it may be. It's just super important also to have some adult people in your life that can help with the transition. I think it has to be said that these young people deserve at least as much as everyone else to have as good a life as possible. We know that not everyone gets it, and that is why we also need to do better. I also think it is quite clear that there are also some major benefits to be gained from this. If people can avoid getting into drug abuse or crime, for example, because they get a good start on their adult life, then that is also an obvious advantage for everyone. The experience of young people who have used after-protection and those who have been talked to have been made such a great study of it a few years ago clearly points out that this is a really big and important help. That is why I think I was actually a little pricked by New Citizens' reading of what a younger woman has said, because I really do not think this proposal is about that. Exactly this proposal acts very much to give people the right to be able to get some help, and there are many who have really good experiences with it. It is also a question of social educators and social workers being very, very clearly supportive of and have been doing so for many years to ensure that there is uniformity throughout the country, because there is a huge difference in how the municipalities use it. Some municipalities spend a great deal of it, and others hardly do, and that makes a difference. There is also the bias that we have discussed before that it is actually precisely some of those who might most need what ends up getting off because they do not want to sit in another meeting with a case officer. So there's really good reason to look at this. For us in Enhedslisten to see, this is a question of defense just one really important piece in everything that is about creating better lives for children who are placed. We would like to discuss this much more with both the after-protection that we have the opportunity to do now in relation to the report, but also how we create something more quality in the placements that are then made. We are very pleased with the government's plans to reform the location area here. This is very good, but I also think that perhaps a little too much has been said about how many children should be placed and who should be placed. We do not have much time to talk about how we are actually ensuring that the children who are placed have a good and decent life, that they have the best possible framework, because that is a little self-evident, I think that, as a society, children should not be placed if they cannot be guaranteed proper conditions. That is exactly what we should like to be much more effective in doing in the coming period. I am very pleased that the Minister has confirmed that this will be a very central element in the forthcoming negotiations. Basically, I think that these young people, at least as much as everyone else, deserve the opportunity to have a decent life. They have earned the help that we as a society can provide, and it is actually our responsibility to ensure that they receive that help. So thank you for the support that we can at least make a report. I think that so far we have a majority in favour of obtaining a sensible report from the country, and so I hope that as soon as possible we can get this right, because we are several parties that have called for this to be a right. You should not stand with your hat in your hand and depend on where you live; it should actually be an offer to all young people who are real and who are entitled to receive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185441	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's for Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185447	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now the rapporteur said earlier in the debate that it had not been easy under the Thorning-Schmidt government because agreements were made with other parties, in other words the blue parties. That's why I need to hear something about this financial agreement. There was Enhedslisten, too, and there we heard a lot about standards in day care institutions. I know that Enhedslisten would have asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party if we were the supporters of another government. So my question to the rapporteur is now: did the Enhedslisten have this in the financial law negotiations and how much money would the Enhedslisten have set aside in financial law negotiations in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185536	Now I'm just a temp in this area, but I've allowed myself to check with other people. We have brought this to finance negotiations; it is our very clear wish that this is something we are moving on. We have been involved in financial law negotiations for years and now too. What we are pointing to as financing I simply cannot remember exactly how much it costs us in this context, and as we are doing here in the proposal, to abolish the housing job scheme and spend the money on something that is much more sensible. But we are open to discussing what it should be for funding, but so there should be no doubt that it is a high priority for us and we are not afraid to be involved in funding it. The rapporteur asked such a bit teasing earlier, also to the SF: why did it not happen? Well, it has certainly not been a lack of will on our part, nor to finance what has done to ensure that it did not happen. But the reality was that under the Thorning-Schmidt government, the vast majority of finance laws were negotiated with the bourgeois parties. It was hard for us to get through with it, but I hope that we can make it look very different now, and I think we can do that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185642	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185644	Well, there's been a finance bill debate where Enhedslisten was involved during this government. Therefore, my question is whether Enhedslisten, when Enhedslisten went to finance negotiations here last time, had this proposal in the bag in relation to wanting to fight for defense, i.e. that you want to grant a right. That is the question. Because I heard a lot about norms, but I didn't hear much about the older children in terms of giving them a helping hand. So that is what the question is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185717	Thank you. Here you go, Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185719	It is true that the question of minimum standards was one of the crucial issues of this financial law. From Enhedslisten's side there was also a lot of focus on raising money for psychiatry, but there are also other things. As far as I am aware, yes, that is also something we have raised here now to the latest Finance Act. And when we table a resolution on it now, it is also because we think it is not good enough that this right is not guaranteed because we want some momentum in it. And that is precisely the opportunity we have to create something now, both in relation to a report and in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185755	Thank you. Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185759	Thank you. Now we've talked about this transition for the 18-23-year-olds. One of the things I hear from a number of previously placed young people is that the installation background is not someone who stops at some point. Typically, it is the sort of thing that can show up in life when it becomes difficult with the background they have. It may be when they become parents themselves, when they get into a crisis, or when they drop out of education or whatever it may be. It could also be after the 23rd year. Can the Enhedslisten see any prospects in what I tried to mention a little in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say the fact that in providing them with such evidence, they are not going to be a social matter in order to be able to get some help, but that it actually gives them easier access? One could also imagine that they had easier access to housing, that is, that we give them rights because they cannot draw on the same network as many others can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185857	I must say I think that sounds like an incredibly good idea, that is to have that approach to it. For it is clear that it does not just need to stop after 23 years of age either. So I think that immediately sounds like a really good idea, and I'm gonna make sure Pernille Skipper comes over, but I can hardly imagine that she won't also think it's an excellent idea. So, yes, let us certainly include the various elements, because this is, of course, about creating the best possible rights throughout our lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185923	Thank you. This is Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Eva Flyvholm Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pernille Skipper). There are no more brief comments to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. So since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512185948	The debate is open. First of all, I should like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190011	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for highlighting this very, very important issue. The placement of a child is a very intrusive decision, both for the child and for the parents. That is why we must also make high demands on legal certainty. Decisions on placements shall be based on thorough analyses of both the needs of the child and the competences of the parents. The quality of the proceedings must be high, the cases must be sufficiently enlightened and both parents and children must be involved and consulted. Parental competence studies shall be carried out in order to clarify what is for the child's good and shall be based on the specific child and its parents' ability to care for the child. It is important to make it clear that the fact that a parental competence study is being prepared is not the same as that one is then a bad parent or that the assessment must be a list of errors one has made. The assessments are an important tool for the municipalities to thoroughly and correctly assess the parents' competence, and the assessments are central to the ability of the municipalities to make the best decision for both children and parents. The study must always be concrete in relation to the specific parents and the specific child. Therefore, in some cases, the study will focus on whether parents have sufficient competences, while in others it will focus on whether there are specific needs that require special support and thus on specific points in relation to parents' abilities. It is about putting the individual child's needs at the heart, finding out what the child needs, and finding out if the parents have the skills to care for the child. If that is not the case, then it must be determined whether the parents, with help and support, will be able to meet the needs of the child. Unfortunately, if it does not prove sufficient to go, it must be assessed whether it is a place outside the home that will be the right effort for the child. The first steps to strengthen legal certainty and improve parental competence studies have already been taken together here in the Folketing. In February we adopted the draft law L 68 B, which ended up being called, in particular. strengthening the legal certainty of parents in placement cases. That law means that, in the future, an attitude to placement without consent is required to include an assessment of parental competence. At the same time, it became a requirement that a psychological examination of parents' parental capacity in the context of a child's examination should always be carried out by an authorised psychologist. This makes it possible to sanction psychologists if they do not do their job well enough. Psychologists are also subject to the Psychology Board's guidance on authorized psychologists, and these guidelines include: also clearly that the assessment made by the psychologist of the parents, as a general rule, must be reviewed with the parents before the statement goes on in the case. The Psychologist Board supervises authorised psychologists and may, among other things,: In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. It is already possible today to see which psychologists have received serious criticism, etc., as these types of decisions are published on the Psychologist's website. I believe that all of us here in the Folketing are very aware that the studies assessing parents' parental capacity must be of high quality. Therefore, it was also agreed in connection with the 2019 rate pool that the current guidelines for parental competence studies should be revised and updated with the latest knowledge in the field. In addition, guidelines must also be drawn up for the association assessments which examine the child's association with the foster family, the biological parents and others in the child's network. So there is a lot going on in this area at the moment, and we have only just begun. Precisely legal certainty for children and parents in the placement cases is one of the areas that the government is looking at and which will be included in the upcoming project The children first. We need to improve procedures in the placement cases, and we need to improve the quality of decisions; this also applies to parental competence studies. We want to ensure that professionalism is at its top and that the case management is also practical and that the process steps are logically coherent for the employees who have to carry them out. We are in dialogue with associations, organisations and previously placed to gain their important experience, and we involve specialists and professionals to find the best professional solution. The most important thing in the case of exposed children is the children and their best. Of course, parents must also be involved and they must be taken into account, but that must never mean that we must compromise on what is best for the child. Children exist in their own right, and the legislation in this area must therefore put children's needs first and bring their wishes forward. That is why consideration for the child and the child's voice are also at the heart of our future action. It is my firm belief that legislation in this area will have the highest quality if the new draft law on the child's law is drawn up in the context, so that we ensure that the rules work together and do not conflict in different directions. Therefore, it is both practical, professional and economically inappropriate to set in motion parallel work on the same rules, and therefore the government cannot support the specific resolution. However, it is very important for me to emphasise that legal certainty in the field of children is something that we are very aware of, and indeed is something that we agree on must be strengthened and improved. That is why we will also take the proposals of the Danish People's Party into account on how to improve legal certainty, but, as I said, we cannot support the concrete proposal as it has been put forward, as we do not believe that it necessarily points to the right solutions in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190621	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190627	Thank you. The Minister may be able to tell us whether there are any parts of this motion for a resolution that the Minister does not support. After all, we in the Danish People's Party propose to allow parents to choose, on the basis of a list of authorised psychologists with expertise in the field, who should prepare the parental competence study. Nowadays, it is the municipality that decides who should be used and which psychologist should be used. Here you have an impartiality because you have a list of who are experts in this area and then you can choose for yourself. And then there are no concerns that may exist and conflicts that may arise by the fact that the municipality may be using the same psychologist. I would like the Minister's answer to that. Then the Minister said that we should not compromise on the children. No, what is most important is the family as a unit; that you help the family, that you help the children and that you help the parents. What is happening at the moment is, of course, that we compromise on legal certainty in relation to quality assurance of these matters. There is also no guarantee of a follow-up to a placement. One does not even evaluate a placement in relation to what has happened afterwards, as well as learning from the mistakes that may have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190747	I must admit that when I was preparing for the discussion, I had some doubts as to whether the motion for a resolution had been tabled before we adopted L 68 B, because part of the concern which I think I can also read from the resolution is, after all, about the quality of parental competence studies and the question of who is doing them. Here we have in the Folketing per year. 1 March this year introduced requirements for authorized psychologists to ensure that there is the necessary quality of the psychologists who are to prepare these parental competence studies. I do not think we should go further than that and in the direction proposed by the Danish People's Party here. I can be concerned about what it can mean in relation to delays in procedures and waiting times if parents select an authorised psychologist who has a long waiting time, and unfortunately there are a lot of them. So I think we need to go further than the concrete proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190850	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190852	Now I myself fought in the context of the pool negotiations to strengthen the legal certainty of parents. That's what L 68 B comes from. It is a wage-pool agreement in which we at least got that part in. But then I can cross it off the list. The government does not want you to have a free choice about who to choose, but still wants it to be the municipalities that have to choose them. But then I would like to know whether the Minister will give parents an opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen in the event of a refusal to draw up a parental competence study. Is that something the government will be able to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512190930	But it is already the case today that parents can complain about the final decision when it is there, and in this context they can also complain on the grounds that they believe that it is a flawed case information that has led to the wrong result. I think it is good and important that we can do so, and that in this way, apart from the fact that it is the judges of the children and young people's committee who are responsible in the first place for the case to be sufficiently informed, we have the opportunity to complain about the final decision and to argue that it would have looked different if a parental assessment had been drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191007	The next brief remark is to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191013	Thank you. But I am just curious when the Minister mentions the child's law, because here recently the Minister broke the bill we were discussing last week on the reflection period with a long tradition within the family law of broad conciliation in the Folketing and broad agreements and negotiations in relation to it. So I am actually just a little curious whether it is the case that the Minister will convene all the parties in the Folketing for negotiations on the child's law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191050	I certainly intend to involve the parties of the Folketing. It is quite difficult to see the Conservative rapporteur because of this plexiglass, but the rapporteur is there, I see. Yes, of course it is transparent, and that is an advantage. I and the government are going to discuss this with all the parties of the Folketing, and I would like to say that I am encouraged by how many people are involved in the most vulnerable children. So we do not always agree exactly where the cut should be in relation to the child's right versus the discussion about the right of parents and the unity of the family. But I certainly intend to listen to all parties, and I also see that all parties have something to offer in the discussion about the child's law, but also in the wider discussion about putting the children first, which is about among other things. such things as defence and various things, which do not necessarily all have to be regulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191138	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191140	Thank you. Well, I understand it's a little hard to see. There's also a bell right in the line of fire. But I hear it as if the Minister intends to call all parties in the Folketing for negotiations on the child's law, and I just want to say that I am delighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191159	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, and that is how the rapporteur begins. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191216	Thank you for the floor. And also thanks to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal to strengthen legal certainty in parental competence studies. This is an incredibly important area, and we in the Social Democratic Party, like the Danish People's Party, are concerned about legal certainty for parents, just as we are also concerned about the best interests of children. We know that there have been mistakes in some cases involving parental competences and that both the quality of investigations and also legal certainty have not always been good enough. But that is precisely why, as the Minister also just said in his speech, a broad majority in this Chamber recently adopted L 68 B, which among other things. means that we need to look at improving the legal certainty of parents in cases where parenthood is called into question. The fact that you have to be assessed as parents is simply so sensitive I think it must be one of the worst things that we as parents can be exposed to, the questioning of your parental competences, is extremely vulnerable and emotional. So there is a great responsibility on the part of the municipalities, a huge responsibility, to first ensure the best interests of the children and, of course, also to accommodate the parents' ability to be heard and seen as the parents they are and as they may become, and to separate the parents' competences from the best interests of the child; the two things are inextricably linked. In addition to L 68 B, in the wake of the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, the government has also launched an in-depth effort to find the right solutions to the challenges of the area with focus on vulnerable children. After all, the focus of the work is on these three tracks: more early placements, better quality, the child's voice and transition to adult life, and here I expect that we can help to increase the quality of the procedure and then strengthen the legal certainty of the children and parents, and of course this also happens by involving specialists and professionals in this work, which the Minister has just mentioned. For there is With the Rate Pool in 2019 it was also agreed that the current guidelines for the Parental Competence Assessment should be updated with the very latest knowledge, and further guidelines for the assessment of the child's affiliation, among other things. to foster parents, biological parents and others in the child's network. So all in all, and on this basis, the Social Democratic Party believes that it is technically and economically inappropriate to initiate further changes as proposed in B 134 now, when this great work has just begun, a work which is published later this year. But we have deep respect for the need of the Danish People's Party to highlight the matter, because it is a very important area. But S cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we are looking forward to and looking forward to the future dialogues in this area, because this is a very important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191547	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191551	As rapporteur on social affairs, I have been struggling with this since 2011. Actually, that's why I was running to become a politician. It was to make an effort in this area. So I know about those initiatives. I myself have fought at the negotiating table. However, my concern is that the Social Democrats want us to have more placements, more forced placements and more forced abortions, and then we talk about the child's law. I just have to say that the aim of the Children's Reform in 2011 was to ensure continuity of placement, to ensure a stable and close adult contact for vulnerable children, to strengthen the interests of the child rather than the interests of the parents, to ensure the rights of vulnerable children, to ensure early action, to ensure more quality both in the case and in the effort, to ensure a better framework for the efforts of the municipalities, including debureaucratisation. So what exactly does social democracy want with the child's law? Is that the second child's reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191657	Thank you. One of the lessons we have learned, as the rapporteur knows, is that many placements take place very late in the child's life and so late that unfortunately irreparable damage occurs. That is why we would very much like to look into this and upgrade the whole area so that we can do better and in the past in the right way and through the parental competence studies, perhaps even in good time, so that forced removals may be avoided. So this is basically about doing even better than we have done in the past, and we can always get better. That is why this work is so important for the government and social democracy as a whole, and I think we just want the same thing. It is heartblood for us, just as it is for DF, and it is simply about doing it better than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191744	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191747	In the Danish People's Party, we do not just want more forced arrests and just more forced abortions. We want quality assurance, we want to ensure the children and we want to provide parents with help, and we want to ensure the family as a unit. But I would really like to hear the rapporteur's definition of when you are a good parent. I mean, when are you a good parent? What is the rapporteur's definition of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191816	First of all, I have not said at any time that we want more forced removals, but that we will do better. So I certainly hope I didn't stand here and say that, because it's a big misunderstanding. Being a good parent is really, really difficult to define, and I don't think there is a clear definition of that. But we all know what children need. They need predictability, they need security, they need stability in their everyday lives, and we also know that there are parents who cannot give it to their children for several reasons. That doesn't necessarily make them bad people. But it is just that there are some who have something to do with life that makes it difficult to be parents at times or all the time, and it is of course about us as a society supporting those children and those families in the very best way. Some parents need more help than others, and for some children it would be better to be elsewhere than with their parents. Unfortunately, one can say, and that is not something that needs to be static. But at least I see it as such that we cannot treat everyone in the same way. We need to treat the children and the parents differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191918	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512191932	Thank you for that, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party to strengthen legal certainty for parents in relation to parental competence studies. There are several good elements in the Danish People's Party's proposal and there is no doubt that placement cases are both complex and very sensitive for the children involved and their parents. When it comes to people, there are not two cases that are the same, and therefore there are no two parental competence studies that are the same. A parental competence study must be based on the specific situation and the specific family. Some cases are complex, while other cases may be more straightforward. The parents' competence study is part of the study, inter alia: the children's study in the total material underlying the municipality's decision. Such a study is often used in the most complex cases, which can ultimately be about where a child should grow up. That is why they must, of course, have high professional quality. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and this is because, in February of this year, we have been discussing L 68B in this Chamber, as the Minister and the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party mentioned, and the point of L 68B is precisely to strengthen the legal certainty of parents. This is done by introducing into the Services Act a requirement that there be a recommendation to the Children and Young People's Committee that there should always be an assessment of parents' competences in order to deal with the child and the child's possible challenges. In addition, the Service Act requires that, if the municipality uses a psychological examination of the parents in connection with the preparation of a child-care study, an authorised psychologist should be used. We in the Left are of the opinion that L 68 B has only just been adopted in the Folketing and that the law must therefore be put into effect in order to be allowed to function in a day-to-day work. That is why we need to evaluate the law and then we can decide and discuss whether further action is needed. However, as I have said, there are elements that we would like to look at, because it is interesting whether we, for example, are going to look at. can see how old parental competence studies are used and whether there are problems in this direction, just as DF has set up six points in their attitude. There are, for example: paragraph 1 about being able to choose an authorised psychologist on the basis of a list from the municipality as well as paragraph 4, which I read as a good proposal for more transparency and therefore also focus on legal certainty in the field. So, although we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, we look forward to discussing its elements with a view to drawing up a possible joint report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192228	But I think the rapporteur has misunderstood if it is the case that the rapporteur believes that the elements of this motion for a resolution are covered with L 68 B, because they are not. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has read Justitia's report............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................yyyyyyyyyyouryout thelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalthelegalofthelegalof a complexof a complexof a complexof a complexde-stricthedecisionof a complexdecision of a complexthedecision of a complexdecisionof a complex-decisionof a complexe-decisionof ade-de-decisionof ade-de-decisionof ade-de-de-decisionof a complex,.................................................................................................................................................. If the family had been helped and supported, it could possibly have been avoided. At the same time, errors and shortcomings at this stage may mean that serious cases in which children should have been placed, possibly forcibly placed, will not be detected in time because the full scale of the problems is not being identified. That's why I'd like to know if the Left doesn't want anything anymore. One is L 68 B, another is how we ensure greater legal certainty in this area. I am sure that the rapporteur will have to get a lot of inquiries from citizens in the Danish country about errors and shortcomings and about challenges in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192340	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for that question. What the rapporteur is reading has also been well read, but I do not think that there is any of what the rapporteur is reading, which is not covered by L 68 B. Now L 68 B has only just been implemented, so it would be interesting to see whether L 68 B could cover itself under this, and we could perhaps, as the Left would like to do, make a statement afterwards, so that we can find out whether it is covered, because we are always willing to look at the legal certainty of the parents. That's also why we agreed to this law and supported this bill. I would also like to make one point very strongly: the best interests of the child always come first. I have also looked at guidelines on the preparation and use of parental competences from the study, where it is said in brief that parental competence studies should only be conducted, where the municipality needs further insight into what is needed to bring the child into a good exchange, and where psychological examination is necessary to illustrate this. It is good people from Mother's Help, the Parental Authority, the Ankestyrelsen, psychologists and the Ministry of Social Affairs, etc. who have mentioned this, and I think that it is also true that it is not necessarily an absolute necessity to have a parental competence study carried out, but it may be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192449	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192452	Does the rapporteur of the Left not agree that these points, among other things? to allow parents to choose on the basis of a list of authorized psychologists with expertise in the field, who is to prepare the parental competence study, is not part of L 68 B? Does the rapporteur not also agree that giving parents a right to a party's hearing when the declaration is made, but before it is sent to the municipality, to ensure that any errors are corrected and that the parents' comments are attached, is not part of L 68 B, and that allowing parents to complain to the Ankestyrelsen in the event of a refusal to draw up a parental competence study, that is, when a refusal is granted when a parental competence study is sought, is not? Does the rapporteur not agree that these proposals are not covered in L 68 B?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192539	That is precisely why I mentioned that in paragraph 1, which concerns giving parents the freedom to choose from a list of authorised psychologists, it was one of those that we could see ourselves in. In relation to giving parents rights to party hearing, I would say that this is what we have case officers and lawyers for today, and that is what they are doing. After all, it is clear from the administration that they are constantly getting reports from parents, where they are expressing themselves through both lawyers and case workers, so I think that is already the case in current legislation. With regard to giving parents the opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen, paragraph 3, in the event of refusal to draw up a parental competence study, I would say that this is what you have a lawyer for, and that is what they are doing. When, as the Minister mentioned, you have a case and when the parents get the answer that they did not want, the lawyer has the opportunity to complain and pass it on to the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192643	Thank you. Thank you, too, from the radical side, for the debate. Like the previous rapporteurs from S and V, I must refer to L 68 B, where several of the points mentioned in the proposal have already been tried to take account of. Like the previous rapporteurs, I agree that we must allow L 68 B to have its impact before we can evaluate it properly and that we will not take any new initiatives at this stage. We believe that strengthening the legal certainty of parents is important, that steps have been taken in this direction, and we believe that authorised psychologists are already being used, and the fact that one should be able to choose freely from a list, we believe that we are relatively well opposed by the Minister, namely that there is a risk of a considerable waiting time on a list of authorised psychologists, and therefore it must be the municipality that uses one of them. It is already the case that an assessment of competence must be examined with the parents. We have heard from the House here that this anchor has already been taken into account. All in all, we are prepared to say no to the proposal, and we are also prepared to go into the work on a report, and we are also prepared to continue working on legal certainty when we later have to negotiate the child's law, where I must say in parentheses that it is not a radical ambition that more should be placed, but that we should be better placed together. Therefore, I see the intention of this strengthening the legal certainty of parents as something we would very much like to continue to work on, including in what is going to happen about the child's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192824	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. It is the proposer, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192830	Thank you. Now I know what it's like to be a support party, but I just have to say that these points are not covered by L 68 B. Where is the introduction of a limitation period for parental competence studies in L 68 B? The fact that you can choose for yourself on the basis of a certified list is a little bit, just as you have a free choice in the area of the elderly today. I am not part of L 68 B. So I feel a little that the radical rapporteur is trying to cover himself under L 68 B. I and the Danish People's Party were fighting for L 68 B during the negotiations on the pitch pool so that we could strengthen this area, and this is another improvement in terms of strengthening legal certainty, even when it comes to what we have written in relation to the studies that have been made. The investigation that Justitia has carried out is very telling. It shows, among other things, that at the time the City of Copenhagen made mistakes in 100 per cent. Of these cases. So what exactly is it thought is fully covered by L 68 B? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512192939	Thank you. We feel covered by L 68 B to such an extent that we do not think that we will vote for further action in this area until we have evaluated what is happening in relation to what is to be implemented through L 68 B. That is what I mean. I do not really want to claim that they are fully coincident. Of course, there is a difference between the proposal we are dealing with here and L 68 B. But what I am saying is that Radicals do not have the mind to vote for this until we have evaluated the actions taken with L 68 B.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193003	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193005	Is it to be understood that the Radicals believe that legislation can never be improved until it has been evaluated? 'Cause I'm wondering. Because when it comes to the proposal we were dealing with here in the Chamber about the residence and the period of reflection for parents, it was a legislation that had not been evaluated at all and which the Minister went in and changed. So it should just be understood that if improvements can be made in legislation, then we should not do so until the legislation has been evaluated or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193041	No, that's not how I get it. I think it was relatively recent that we adopted L 68 B • it was even in this collection • so it is not always the case that we say that you can't do anything new, but in this case we would like to see how it works before we are prepared to take further steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193056	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193103	Thank you. Trusting cooperation and the strong involvement of parents of vulnerable children and young people are essential not least for the well-being of the child or young person. Conflicts between adults who have to provide good care create insecurity. That is why we also support initiatives to strengthen the involvement of parents and legal certainty in the processing of cases. I also see this as an important purpose of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. There are parts of the proposal that we can support, but there are also parts that we cannot immediately, as they are proposed here. I'm thinking I'll try to take them a little from the end. The first proposal is to allow parents to choose who is to prepare the parental competence study. I do not think that free choice increases quality. I think we have seen that in other areas too, but I think that we need to go other ways to ensure quality, among other things. by ensuring that it is an authorised psychologist who makes it. In connection with L 68 B, we have already agreed that it must always be an authorised psychologist to be used when a psychological examination of the custody holder is initiated. We have also agreed that there should be an assessment of the powers of the parental authority holder to care for the child or young person in settings for placement without consent. However, in this context we did not decide that it should be a parental competence study and that the assessment should have been carried out by an authorised psychologist. One could, for example, do so. specify in order to strengthen the quality of the assessment. In addition, it could also be worked on that there was a demand for special specialisation of the psychologists who do the studies, for example. through a certification scheme. One could, for example: get inspiration from Norway, where I know that they have worked with it. Then there is the second point, which is about giving parents the right to party consultation and the opportunity to correct before a statement is sent to the municipality. As far as I know, it is already practice to submit and review the study with the parents and that any comments made by parents are noted in the same way as if the municipality had an obligation to note if the parents had comments. For authorized psychologists, it is a requirement from the Psychologist Board that a statement be submitted to parents before it is forwarded, with the possibility of correcting factual errors, etc. At the same time, it is important to remember that parents must be heard on the whole matter under the authority of the local authority and therefore also in relation to the parental competence study. In cases of placement without consent, parents are given legal advice to ensure that they have the opportunity to make comments. Then there is the third proposal, which is about giving parents the opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen, if they are refused a parental competence study. That part we think can make sense. This will require a change in the Service Act so that the decision on whether or not to carry out a parental competence study will become a real decision against which to complain. At the same time, I think that we should ensure that this is not something that slows down the processing time too much. But actually, it's something we'd like to look at. Then there is the proposal about the possibility that parents and others can see which psychologists the Psychology Board has repeatedly criticized. As I understand it, it is already practice, according to the Psychology Act, which we have recently revised, so serious criticism and other harsh sanctions are published. Then there is the proposal that municipalities and psychologists be required to follow the guidance given by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior in relation to parental competence studies. Actually, I think that makes a lot of sense. The guidelines should be binding and not merely indicative. So when the guidelines are reviewed, they should become a proper guide to the Services Act. Then there is the last proposal to introduce limitation periods for parental competence studies. I actually understand the intention of that proposal, but I just think that it is difficult in a relevant way to set a certain limitation period, since it can of course vary. For example: the right effort can change in a short time what has strained parental competence, which means that it will then be relatively soon afterward obsolete. It should be a case-by-case and individual assessment whether an investigation is no longer relevant in whole or in part in relation to the specific decision taken on the basis of it. However, it should be possible to assess the need for a new study if decisive changes have taken place that change the basis for assessing parental competence. Having said all that, I would like to repeat what I said at the outset, namely that we support in the SF the strengthening of parental involvement and cooperation with those around their children. This requires, among other things, that: also that legal certainty and quality are looked at in the studies being carried out. As I said, there is something we support and something we do not do. I wonder if we could get together on a story. In any case, we will be actively involved in cooperation on this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193616	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp for a very constructive approach, particularly in relation to those proposals. We can then agree or disagree, but I do believe that we are in agreement on the intentions far along the way. Whether it should be a certification system that can be left to psychologists or how to produce it, we must look at it in relation to a joint report. I'd like to sign for that. Then I think that, of course, there are also some political issues with which we disagree. But I would really like to hear about something from SF, which I have been debating in several debates on legal certainty. This proposal is, of course, something, as Justitia has also recommended in the report they have produced; many of the proposals that are included here to strengthen the legal certainty have been withdrawn from there. So is SF involved in making a report that goes further to strengthen legal certainty than L 68 B?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193736	We think it is easy to go further than that if we do not go in and change exactly what we have adopted. I would think it was too bad that we did, because it should be allowed to work. However, we would like to support all possible improvements on which we can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193752	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193753	Yes, but I just don't see what L 68B has to do with this motion for a resolution, because these are two very different things, apart from the fact that it is the same objective, namely to strengthen legal certainty. But it is different tools that are being used, and it is also different from this resolution. It is not the case today that parents have the opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen in the event of a refusal to draw up a parental competence study. It may be that you can complain about a decision, but you cannot complain about it if you now have a desire to have your parental competence review evaluated and it is said: we will not. This is not something we can complain about today, at least not as far as I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193838	That's also why I actually tried to say what part of it leans on L 68 B along the way, and what parts we support that are not contained in it. Perhaps I could have made that a little clearer during my review. But that is quite correct. And there are also some of the things we have said we might be interesting to continue working on, which is not part of L 68 B.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193903	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and so we move on to the next rapporteur, who comes from the Enhedslisten. It's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512193929	Thank you so much. I would like to start by thanking you very much on behalf of the Enhedslisten for this proposal. I think it is really important and sensible that attention be paid to whether legal certainty in these children's cases is good enough. I certainly believe that there is a basis for us to look at improving it, so it is a very good and important proposal that comes into play here. Basically, there must of course be legal certainty for all citizens in society, but in these cases in particular, it is really, really important that all parties feel properly treated and involved, not least for the sake of the children, who also have to go through these processes. So this work on the part of the Enhedslisten would be very much in favour of strengthening, and I also think that most of these concrete initiatives in the resolution seem very good and sensible, but we have the thought that it could be very good, both because there has been some new legislation, but above all because it could be good to hear organisations and stakeholders in the field at all, exactly how their approach will be. Because this is super complex, and there are also good experiences from other countries that you can bring in. So we are actually very positive about it, but would like us to make a round. If we can either get the Minister to promise that here we will have a round of stakeholders coming on or we can do it ourselves in committee and have the necessary comments included there, then I think it would be very beneficial. And then I think that what we can support in the first place here will be that we make a report in committee on how we can strengthen legal certainty. However, we would very much like to see a consultation process started, and we would also like to support a report. So it may not be exactly as it is here, but that we will at least get the country something that strengthens legal certainty, I think that is also needed. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194146	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194156	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here on legal certainty in parental competence studies. After all, the proposal here contains six measures which certainly have very good intentions, and there is no doubt that a parental capacity study is of great importance for parents' cases and also for children's cases. On the Conservative side, legal certainty in social matters is important, and there are also elements in the proposal here where we share the intention, but which we need to clarify something more than what the resolution says. That is, for example, what lies in the point of the limitation period: when is a case obsolete in the eyes of the Danish People's Party? And what is meant by correcting any errors, in the point of consultation of the parties, etc.? There are also measures in the resolution here which we cannot support, for example. the choice of an authorized psychologist. So when I look at it as a whole, I have to say that we have to reject it, but of course we would like to have and to enter into a continued discussion on how we can ensure legal certainty in children's cases, including, of course, parental capacity studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194340	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194357	First of all, I would like to say that having your child removed or raised suspicions about your parent's abilities must simply be one of the most cross-border for the vast majority. There is no doubt that there are some children who have the best of being removed from the home. I think everyone in this room is quite in agreement on that, too. But, of course, it is extremely important that legal certainty in this area is there, especially when errors have been seen, such as some of those mentioned here earlier. That is why, as a starting point, we think that this is a very good proposal. We think there are a great many good steps to strengthen legal certainty. Now there are several different ones mentioned, and some say that it is contained in L 68 B, but there is also a great deal of what is not. So we're kind of convinced that we 100 percent think these points are important. Whether it's a debate in the Ministry that makes these things implemented and thus raises legal certainty for parents in these matters, or whether it means that we're just voting for this resolution, we don't really care if these things come in so that we can strengthen legal certainty. As far as the specific points are concerned, several different points are mentioned, and several other rapporteurs have mentioned this, among others. the fact that you have the opportunity to see if there are some psychologists who have received criticism of the Psychologist Board, or that you can complain to the Ankestyrelsen, if you are refused the preparation of this parental competence study etc. That's really, really good bars. So, as I said before, we support the need for greater legal certainty in this area. I also hear the Minister say that this is an area we will be discussing more and discussing, so we say that we support the proposal and look forward to negotiating the area at the same time. And I should also salute the Liberal Alliance and say that they have the same attitude as us. Whether we vote in favour of the resolution or whether it is something that is being taken in the ministry and negotiated home, we do not really care if these things are being implemented and kept focused on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194644	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the new bourgeoisie and also for the greetings of the Liberal Alliance. It has thus become the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution's turn to speak. Welcome to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512194657	Thank you. Now the challenge is enough that I have too little time for my huge, long rapporteur speech In the Danish People's Party, we want greater legal certainty and quality in parental competence studies. Parental competence studies are often of crucial importance in a placement case, and therefore it is a legal problem when the parental competence study is not of sufficiently high quality and does not provide a true picture of the parents' ability to care for their child. The removal of a child is a very intrusive measure and therefore the basis must be thoroughly documented. The studies vary worryingly greatly in quality and are often erroneous. Several experts think so. However, according to a lawyer specialising in placement cases Thorbjørn Thomsen, it may be problematic that parental competence studies are so important for the placement of a child. As the study, he says, is being done today, there is too much arbitrariness because they are carried out in a multitude of different ways. There is simply an excessive amount of grey areas in the studies in relation to the fact that imposing children is such an intrusive act. He has also said in the past that there are no rules for which psychologists are allowed to conduct studies or what types of psychological tests to use, just some guidance guidelines from 2011, which the municipalities may have announced, that they want more children to be placed, and that more children also have to be forcibly removed. In the Danish People's Party, it is not just about placing more or forced abortions; it is about the right children being placed on a well-documented basis, as well as helping families as a unit. In 2018, the independent think tank Justitia made a report, Tvangsanlægsættelseer, legal certainty in a complicated decision-making process. Here it is, among other things. It was proposed that parents should be able to choose, on the basis of a list of authorized psychologists with expertise in the field, who should draw up a parental competence study and that parents should be entitled to party consultation. We have taken some of the good proposals for us in the Danish People's Party, because it is very good that we have strengthened legal certainty, but also impartiality. I am thinking here that it may feel particularly inappropriate that it is the municipality which designates who should carry out the study. Unfortunately, I also hear about some people who feel that the studies have been commissioned. So the placement area has been working for several years on the Danish People's Party's side to improve. We have sought quality assurance in the cases and strengthened legal certainty in the cases both to parents, but not least to children, who are often not heard in their own case. That is why we have come up with a number of proposals on how this can be done precisely by allowing parents to choose, on the basis of a list of authorized psychologists, who will be responsible for this study, and to give parents a right to a party hearing, that is, when the statement is made, but before it is sent to the municipality, to ensure that any errors are corrected and that the parents' comments are attached; that is also one of the things I often hear do not happen. We must also give parents the opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen in the event of refusal to prepare a parental competence study if they have a wish to have one. And we must give parents and others the opportunity to see which psychologists have repeatedly been awarded a decision with criticism by the Psychologist Board. Municipalities and psychologists must be required to follow the guidance given by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. Of all the inquiries I have received, I have been told many times that such a parental competence study, which is quite old, that is, several years ago, is pursuing one. That is why I think it is inappropriate that you never get a chance to rectify it and become a good parent if there is a parental competence study first. Kristelig Dagblad • and I do not know if you have been following with • have also had a number of series on this area where there has been a focus on it, and we have had several appearances on the Social Committee, which has problematized the challenges that are in this area. I therefore believe that this is an area which is so important for both parents and children that it needs to be done properly and that we simply need to ensure the quality of these matters. I have heard that sometimes you have to sit and look at ink blots like that, and from that it is just noted how and how. I think it seems really weird. But I think that we have had a good debate today, because what this is all about is the families and that they need help. I'm not saying that all children have to live at home with their parents, but I'm saying that you have to look at several things in this... both preventively, in terms of how to help families, how to apply Section 11 of the Services Act in relation to prevention, and whether the municipalities go in and document what they have done of interventions. And why is it basically that you do not evaluate a placement? Because today we see that many children who have been placed find it difficult to move on in life. So I don't believe that happiness will always be a placement. Moreover, we see throughout that children are in danger of becoming throwing balls. They run the risk of going out to a great many families during their years. Many of them are fleeing home too. Well, they're gonna run from the house offer and go back home. So this is an area that is of great importance to the Danish People's Party. I would like to thank you for the debate and constructive input, and especially for the new citizens who fully support the proposal, and for the Liberal Alliance, which is not here. But also thanks for the constructive debate and the good input on how the community can improve this. The Enhedslisten also had some good bars and also SF in their rapporteur's speech. Then I don't know quite with the Left; I think you misunderstood a little how much of this was in L 68 B. But we can clarify that. In other words, we can ask a committee question in committee and then the Minister can answer how much is in L 68 B in relation to the motion for a resolution. But I have to say that I am concerned that the government has too much focus on the number of placements. At the moment, I also hear some horrible stories about forced abortions. I'd say this is so intrusive. In order to take such intrusive measures, it will have to be properly legal and fully documented and clarified. This is certainly something that I hope we can agree entirely on here in the Assembly, irrespective of which party one comes from. In any case, thank you for the debate. I look forward to the committee reading and I hope that we can reach a joint report where the intentions are at least the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195454	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195501	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It's nice to feel that you're passionate about this area, and I'm sure we'll have a lot of good debates forward-looking, because it's just so important a field to talk about. I just need to be brief. I got a little curious about one of the suggestions I think it was the first of the six that is about parents being able to identify the psychologist they want from a list. Has the rapporteur considered that this could present some challenges in that it would typically be some of the same people you hear about and talk about are particularly good and that, therefore, a relatively long waiting period could arise which could delay some things and could create some inappropriateness in the overall procedure so that it would simply be detrimental to the child and the family at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195556	I fully agree with the questioner that the rapporteur is very committed, but nevertheless she has to be addressed as the rapporteur or Mrs Adsbøl, and that has also been corrected along the way, so everything is in order. The rapporteur is hereby given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195612	When I read Justitia's report, I thought it was very good recommendations they made to us politicians. One of the recommendations on what we could work with, which they made, was among other things. This is because, on the basis of a list, you have to be able to choose an authorized psychologist who has expertise in this area, precisely in order to avoid the conflict that can also arise, by means of a municipality, for example. use the same psychologist over and over again, and that suspicions arise that it is commissioned work when using the same psychologist. Here it is completely impartial and one can say that it is not something we have not tried before. In the area of home help, we also have free choice providers, so you can choose who you want. So I am sure that it will be possible to resolve the challenge mentioned by the rapporteur. I would like to turn it around and say: why should one not be allowed to have the free choice? Why is it that the municipalities have to identify what kind of authorized psychologist should be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195723	Does Mrs Birgitte Vind want another comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195725	I do not think it was quite the answer, but I think we will take it at another time. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195731	I'm looking forward to it. I am perfectly prepared to debate further, either here in the Assembly Chamber or over with the Minister or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195741	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Adsbøl. I would ask the rapporteur to come back to the floor because a brief comment has just been made. I didn't realize it just came in. The brief remark is from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195758	Thank you. I would also just like to sign the rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, for a good debate today. It will be exciting to follow it in committee. Compared to what I said about L 68 B, I just did not say that these are the points that are necessarily words to words in L 68 B. I said that, as a whole, we have ensured greater legal certainty for parents in relation to L 68 B. Because we have some of these points and we look forward to working with DF and other groups and parties about it. So I just want to sign up again and say thank you and I hope that we will have a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195831	Thank you. It was a very good thing that we were able to clarify this, namely that these are some points other than those of L 68 B. I fully agree that we have improved the legal certainty of parents; we have fought at the negotiating table at the time by means of a pool agreement, which has then been implemented in L 68 B. But now the rapporteur is not quite so old in the game here. And when the rapporteur has been here for a while, I think that the rapporteur will also get to the point that more will be needed, because we would therefore like to do things even better, wouldn't we? Well, sometimes you have to settle. Then we will get through a debate, but we also know that it can be even better, and that is why we have tabled this resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195917	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195920	We are in complete agreement on this. Laughter First Vice-President Sorry. The President said wrong. I say: Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please go to the rapporteur). Thank you, we are in complete agreement on that. Just don't compromise on the child's best interests and the child's legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512195938	I do not see, therefore, that because we strengthen the legal certainty of parents, we must compromise the legal certainty of children. I don't see how the parents are here and the kids are there. It is about both children and parents having legal certainty. The children must be heard, and today we see that they do not remain in many cases. Parents must also have legal certainty. So it is not either or; it is about strengthening legal certainty in the whole area, both for parents, but also for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512200010	So many thanks to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and to the many questioners. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200512200028	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 99 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG), Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut and Javnaðarflokkurin; a group of 80 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll Bille (UFG) and Sambandsflokkurin. The groups have appointed 15 members and two alternates for each of these members. Notice of who has been elected according to the group recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected. To members: 1 Erik Christensen (appointed by S) 2 Pia Gjellerup (appointed by S) 3 Karin Gaardsted (appointed by S) 4 Karen Klint (appointed by S) 5 Klaus Bach Trads (appointed by RV) 6 Anne Grete Holmsgaard (appointed by SF) 7 Leif Donbæk Thomsen (appointed by SF) 8 Ingelise Bech Hansen (appointed by EL) 9 Nicolai Mallet (appointed by V) 10 Karoly Nèmeth (appointed by V) 15 Gert Eg (appointed by V) 12 Karen Rønde (appointed by V) 13 Mette Vestergaard Husss (appointed by V) 14 Christian Langballe (appointed by DF) 15 Keld Holm (appointed by KF) Deputy alternates: 1 Karen Hækkerrup Maja Panduro 2 Per Housted Claus Lavsen Lavsen Lavsen 3 Kirs 3 Jørgensen 14 Martin Henriksen Susanne Eilersen 15 Klavs Norup Lauridsen Steen Stavnsbo]
ParlaMint-DK_20200512200146	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 May 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
